Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, December 9, 2014 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Ada Mary Gugenheim and Director Wayne M. Lerner (2)
Board Chairman M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Hon. Jerry Butler
Mr. Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (non-Director Member)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Peter Daniels – Chief Operating Officer, HospitalBased Services
Aaron Hamb, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County
Krishna Das, MD – System Chief Quality Officer
Aaron Hamb, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County
Anwer Hussain, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel

II.

Connie Mennella, MD – Cermak Health Services of
Cook County
Jack Raba, MD – Cermak Health Services of Cook
County
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD –Chief Executive Officer
David Soglin, MD – Chairman, Department of
Pediatrics
Ozuru Ukoha, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County

Public Speakers
Chairman Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from System Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Dr. Krishna Das, System Chief Quality Officer, provided updates on the following subjects.
i.

College of American Pathology (CAP) Accreditation Visit
Dr. Das stated that CAP, the group that accredits the Laboratory, recently completed a two (2) day site
visit. There were a series of approximately twenty (20) corrective actions resulting from the visit; there
was one issue regarding training that was probably the most significant, but most were minor issues,
such as typographical errors found in policies. The corrections are well underway; the administration
expects to receive the full two-year accreditation for the Laboratory.

Page 1 of 105

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 2

III.

Report from System Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates (continued)
ii. IDPH Perinatal Network Reaccreditation
Dr. David Soglin, Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, stated that representatives from the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH) arrived on November 19th to survey Stroger Hospital regarding
two (2) different issues: 1) status as a Level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU); and 2) status as a
Perinatal Network Hospital Center.
Dr. Soglin stated that the accreditation process went very well; three-year accreditation was received in
both areas. They had two recommendations regarding the Level III NICU: 1) to enhance the
breastfeeding program; and 2) to improve the ability to designate which babies in the NICU are
determined to be Level III, as opposed to Level II, since only one geographic area is used. He added
that the surveyors had a lot of commendations, as well, particularly in the area of high-risk follow-up
for the babies that leave Stroger Hospital’s NICU.

iii. IDPH Linear Accelerator Licensing
Dr. Das stated that representatives from IDPH recently visited to examine the new Linear Accelerator,
basically for radiation safety purposes; following the visit, they granted approval of the license.

iv. Provident Hospital – The Joint Commission survey (Attachment #1)
Dr. Aaron Hamb, Medical Director of Provident Hospital of Cook County, and Peter Daniels, Chief
Operating Officer of Hospital-Based Services, provided an overview of the information presented on
the recent survey of Provident Hospital by The Joint Commission (TJC). The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
With regard to the Condition of Participation (CoP) citation on slide 4 relating to the governing body,
Board Chairman Hammock requested further clarification. Mr. Daniels responded that the governing
body citation automatically comes up when there is a condition-level finding; it is removed when the
condition-level finding is resolved. It requires that the resources and environment be provided to take
care of the other two CoP citations within the next thirty (30) days. Director Lerner noted that if it is
not resolved upon re-survey, the surveyors could ask for a meeting with the governing body to talk
about issues of lack of oversight and attention to some of these details; he added that, to the extent that
Provident Hospital does not meet CoP, it risks not participating in the Medicare Program, which is why
it is a significant governing body issue. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that
surveyors will be back for certain in January for the re-survey.
During the discussion of the second Indirect Impact Citation listed on slide 8, relating to a consultation
ordered on a patient that was not completed in a timely matter, Dr. Shannon provided additional
information. He stated that this issue will need to be resolved over time, as it is a long-range strategic
issue. Today, two separate medical staffs exist; a Stroger Hospital-credentialed medical staff member
cannot perform services for a hospitalized patient at Provident Hospital if they have not been
credentialed by the Provident Hospital Medical Staff. He noted that, in the Ambulatory environment,
medical staff has free range to practice at any of the sites in an Ambulatory environment.

Page 2 of 105

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 3

III.

Report from System Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
iv. Provident Hospital – The Joint Commission survey (continued)
Director Lerner inquired whether relationships exist with the University of Chicago for certain
consultation services and/or visiting attending privileges. Dr. Hamb responded in the negative. He
stated that Provident Hospital Medical Staff Bylaws allow for the opportunity for someone to have
visiting attending privileges; this category is called the “affiliate” category. Management have
anticipated the need for certain services and providers to be credentialed and privileged at Provident
Hospital who are technically members of the Stroger Medical Staff; in those instances, those providers
officially become members of the Provident Hospital Medical Staff.
Chairman Gugenheim inquired whether there is a mechanism to feed back to the hospital staff as a
whole the findings presented today. Dr. Hamb responded that this is presented to a regulatory
compliance committee that includes all of the key players responsible for the various different functions
and chapters of TJC standards; it is then fed back to the department heads, with the expectation that they
will feed it back to their staff at department-level meetings. Mr. Daniels added that, on the last day of
the survey, there is an exit conference; all of the key stakeholders and participants of the survey are in
attendance. Immediately after the exit conference, a department head meeting is held, and they go
through the entire report.
Board Chairman Hammock noted that there are two (2) items here that the administration has appealed;
he posed the following question - should those be found in Provident’s favor, is there any possibility
that it might trigger a recalculation of the governing body CoP citation? Mr. Daniels responded that,
during this clarification period, they will double-check with them; it could resolve that aggregation.
Director Lerner inquired whether TJC requires a meeting with the governing board for the Stroger
Hospital survey. Dr. Das stated that there is a leadership meeting; the organization is at liberty to
define who is present at the meeting, and it has been the custom to invite Board Members to these
meetings. Dr. Shannon stated that he would like to take the opportunity to thank Director Butler, who
sat in on the leadership meeting at Provident Hospital; he stated that it was very helpful to see that
degree of engagement there.

B. Publicly Reported Ratings
There was nothing to report on this subject at this time.

IV.

Action Items
A. 2015 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plans:
i.
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (Attachment #2)
ii. Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County (Attachment #3)
Dr. Das reviewed a presentation (Attachment #4) relating to planned metrics for the Quality Plan for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (Stroger Hospital). The Committee reviewed and discussed the
information.

Page 3 of 105

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A. 2015 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plans (continued)
Dr. Das noted that the presentation regarding the Quality Plan for the Ambulatory and Community Health
Network of Cook County was reviewed at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting in October.
In response to a question from Chairman Gugenheim regarding the information on Key Performance
Indicators, Dr. Das stated that the comparison groups for all of the indicators are the entire Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) database. She noted that the most recent report she has received is
for an eighteen month period up through the first quarter of 2014.
Director Lerner noted that most of those reporting intervals were quarterly; he asked whether those reports
are generated manually or through some sort of real-time database system. Dr. Das responded that each is
generated a little differently. For operating room data, there is a manual collection and an electronic
collection; a freestanding Cerner report has been created to look at the turnaround times. All of the core
measures use a platform called Lighthouse, which lives within Cerner; it basically involves manual
abstraction with electronic support – staff has to look at the chart, but Lighthouse presents all the data
needed so the abstractors do not have to dig through the details of every chart. This data is received
monthly, approximately ten (10) days after the end of the month.
Director Lerner wondered if quarterly reporting is the right interval; he stated that the challenges he has
found in his work was that, whether quarterly or semi-annually, he was trying to manage by looking in the
rearview mirror all the time, which is difficult to do. Dr. Das stated that the internal goal is to have monthly
data, because for performance improvement, a minimum of monthly data is needed to get the turnaround.
She added that she is getting monthly data for almost all of these, including operating room statistics and
data on core measures; the administration gets that data and reviews it every month. Director Lerner
indicated that, if finance reports are available fifteen (15) days after the end of the month, and quality
reports are available fifteen (15) days after the end of the month, for him, the real key is, how does the
System bring quality and finance together so that one is driving the other, and the administration and Board
are looking at a full menu to drive patient satisfaction?
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to approve the 2015 Quality
Assessment and Performance Improvement Plans for John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County and the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, October 28, 2014
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of October 28, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #5)
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Reappointments/Changes. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI

Page 4 of 105

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 5

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Dr. Anwer Hussain, President of the Executive Medical Staff (EMS) of Provident Hospital of Cook County,
presented his report. He thanked all of those involved in the preparations for the survey by The Joint
Commission. With regard to the System’s Flu Policy, he stated that he was pleased to report that 100% of
the Medical Staff at Provident Hospital are compliant with the policy.
Dr. Hussain provided additional information regarding sub-specialty care, which was discussed earlier in the
meeting. Currently, when a patient at Provident Hospital requires sub-specialty care that is not available at
Provident Hospital, staff makes the necessary phone calls to the person on-call at Stroger Hospital to make
the appropriate transfer. He stated that there are very good communications between the Medical Staffs at
Provident and Stroger Hospitals.
Dr. Ozuru Ukoha, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented his
report, which included information on the following subjects.
Dr. Ukoha surmised that there may be a mass exodus of doctors from this institution due to issues relating to
pension reform. For many years the System has brought doctors into this institution and paid them less than
market price, on the promise that the difference would be made up by having a terrific pension plan. Most
of these doctors have poured their blood, sweat and tears into this institution for many years; now they are
potentially going to reach the precipice and make a decision about their future. The overall effect of this
group of doctors leaving cannot be underestimated.
Dr. Ukoha stated that, when deciding whether to join an institution, in addition to compensation issues,
doctors look at the patient mix of the institution. He stated that doctors want patients as complex as
possible. The System’s patients have suddenly become hot commodities around the City; this is likely going
to affect the patient mix here. Stroger Hospital is judged every year by its trainees; if it goes through one
cycle of bad presentation to the trainees, the quality of applicants to the institution will drop.
Dr. Ukoha described issues experienced with the Patient Portal. He stated that the message has been
communicated to the patients very clearly to make sure their doctor is on their health plan. The Medical
Staff was very concerned when the Patient Portal did not reflect this information for over three months; it
either had the wrong information or was not complete enough.
Dr. Ukoha described issues with having the right tools and resources to effectively care for patients. He
referenced the inability in some areas to get state of the art equipment that could affect the System’s ability
to offer the most attractive treatment options for patients. Some of the issues involve delays with getting
basic fundamental medical supplies due to process issues.
Dr. Shannon stated that a number of the sentiments and concerns Dr. Ukoha raised are legitimate; the
System has very significant problems that need to be addressed to make sure it has the right care, right tools,
and right people available at the right time. There are plans to put a number of these pieces in place, but
there is a sense of time urgency, so pieces will have to be prioritized; the most important thing that Dr.
Ukoha pointed out is the issue of being able to have the right environment, resources and tools necessary for
the medical staff to do what they need to do with the patients who walk in the door.

Page 5 of 105

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 6

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees (continued)
Dr. Shannon stated that, as an organization, the administration will have to figure out when and how to adopt
new technologies. Some of them are just more expensive and fancier, and some of them have measurable
improvements in care; he believes that staff needs to engage in the analysis to determine when those are in
the latter category.
Director Butler stated that what is most pressing is how the System will track its patients and
redeterminations. Director Lerner noted that the Board has a new committee regarding CountyCare; as far
as he is concerned, the CountyCare focus has to be one of the highest priorities right now, because those are
the patients that everyone wants.

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
C. Cermak Update
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular
body has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when
the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis
for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,”
and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or
other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll
call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Gugenheim and Director Lerner (2)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

Page 6 of 105

The

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Page 7

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Gugenheim declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chairman
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 7 of 105

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 105

 Joint Commission Survey Overview:
Joint Commission Survey Overview: 
Provident Hospital of Cook County
Report of the Medical Director
Report of the Medical Director

CCHHS Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
12.9.2014
1

Page 9 of 105

 Survey Summary
•
•

•

•

•

‘Deemed status’ survey for CMS; every 3 years
3 days, 2 surveyors (+ 1 in training)
– Life Safety Surveyor – Field Director for Life Safety Code 
Surveyors/Engineers at TJC.
/
– Field Surveyor – 16 years experience as Joint Commission surveyor
Process:
– Tracers‐ arrive in clinical area and request to review a specific patient
• Medical Surgical Unit, Perioperative Area and Sterile Processing, 
Emergency Department
– Document review: files of employees identified in tracers, chart review
D
t
i
fil
f
l
id tifi d i t
h t
i
– Conference + documents: Leadership, Emergency Management, Data 
Management , Medical Staff Credentialing
Positive comments:
Positive comments:
– Involvement and knowledge of clinical staff, esp. navigation of the eHR
– Leadership hospitality and commitment
– Excellent credentialing files
Excellent credentialing files
Citations listed below– ‘direct impact’ and ‘indirect impact’
2

Page 10 of 105

 Summary of Citations
Summary of Citations
Type of Citation

Number of 
Citations

Significance of Citation

Condition of Participation

3

Items found out of compliance with 
external  regulations requiring 
immediate correction and resurvey 
in 30 days (new).

Direct Impact

2

May directly impact accreditation. 
Requires ESC (evidence of 
standards compliance) in 45 days.
d d
li
) i 45 d
(Due date: 1/8/2015)

Indirect Impact

10

Does not directly impact on 
accreditation Requires ESC in 60 
accreditation.
Requires ESC in 60
days. (Due date: 1/23/2015)

Opportunity for 
for
Improvement

10

Single items noted
Single
items noted within a 
within a
particular standard.
Informational to the institution 
(new).

Page 11 of 105

3

 Conditions of Participation (CoP)
Conditions of Participation (CoP)
Description

Specifics

Plan

Compliance with federal, 
state and local laws

Compliance expected
with the Global 
Harmonizing System 
(
(new OSHA requirement 
OSHA
i
t
for labeling hazardous 
material) as of 12/2013

Conduct training to meet 
current requirements;
plan full conversion 
across CCHHS to be 
CCHHS t b
completed by 2016 (full 
compliance expected)

Physical environment
Physical environment

Aggregate of all 
Aggregate
of all
Correct designated EC 
designated EC
Environment of Care (EC)  and LS citations (8)
and Life Safety (LS) 
citations  

Governing body

Auto scoring assigns a 
Correct all condition level 
citation for the 
citations
Leadership standard 
when any other condition 
h
th
diti
level citations are given.
4

Page 12 of 105

 Direct Impact Citations
Description of the 
Standard

Specifics

Circuit breakers in the 
EC.02.05.01Hospital 
manages risks associated  electrical closet were labeled as 
y y
“spares” when they were in 
p
y
with its utility systems
use.  
Decontamination area should 
have a negative air flow. 
LS.02.01.20 Hospital 
maintains the integrity 
of the means of egress

In one area of the hospital the 
appropriate exit signage was 
not present and visible to staff 
and patients to designate
and patients to designate 
multiple means of evacuation 
in case of an emergency; some 
doors were locked

Plan
Apply appropriate 
labels to circuit 
breakers. 
Corrected during 
survey
Implement 
appropriate signage 
and in interim 
remove locks on
remove locks on 
doors while patients 
are present

5

Page 13 of 105

 Indirect Impact
Description of the 
Standard
EC.02.02.01
M
Management of 
f
hazardous materials and 
waste 

Specifics
No comprehensive risk 
assessment has been 
h b
completed related to the 
presence of certain 
g
chemical agents

Plan
Complete 
comprehensive risk 
h i
i k
assessment.

EC.02.03.01 
Written fire response plan
Management of fire risks does not specifically 
address the role of licensed 
independent practitioners. 

Revise fire plan to 
address the role of 
licensed independent 
practitioners. 

EC.02.03.03 Hospital 
conducts fire drills

Critique of fire drills did not 
include evaluation of the 
visual alarm features of the 
i l l
f t
f th
system. 

Revise policy and 
evaluation tool to 
i l d
include evaluation of the 
l ti
f th
visual alarms.

EC.02.03.05 Maintain 
fire equipment and fire 
fire equipment
and fire
safety building features

Failure to document 
notification of off‐site
notification of off‐site 
responders while testing of 
the fire alarm equipment.

Implement process of 
fire department (CFD)
fire department (CFD) 
confirmation of 
notification during 
quarterly fire drills. 

Page 14 of 105

6

 Indirect Impact
Indirect Impact 
Description of the 
Standard

Specifics

Plan

EC.02.06.01 Establish and  Pressure relationship not  Corrected during  
maintain a safe, functional  appropriate for 3 soiled
survey
environment
and clean utility rooms 
relative to the corridor
relative to the corridor.
Establish physical 
separation of full and 
empty 02 tanks. 
LD.01.03.01 Governing 
body is accountable for 
safety and quality of care, 
treatment and services. 
d
i

Automatically scored as 
non‐compliant due to 
several EC and LS issues 
id ifi d(
identified(new)
)

Correct the 2 citations for 
CMS CoP

LD.04.01.01 Compliance 
with law and regulations

Compliance expected
with the Global 
Harmonizing System
Harmonizing System 
(new OSHA requirement 
for labeling hazardous 
material) as of 12/2013

Conduct training to meet 
current requirements;
plan full conversion 
plan full
conversion
across CCHHS to be 
completed by 2016
7

Page 15 of 105

 Indirect Impact
p
Description of the 
Standard
LS.02.01.70 Maintenance
LS
02 01 70 M i t
of operating features that 
conform to fire and 
smoke prevention
p

Specifics
One container >
O
t i
32
32 
gallons in place and two 
32 gallon containers 
located side‐by‐side. 
y

Plan
Separate/remove
S
t /
containers; apply for 
waiver for containers  as 
appropriate.
pp p

MS.03.01.01 Medical staff  Consultation ordered on a  Re­education of unit staff 
oversees the quality of 
patient not completed in  to escalate reminders for 
patient care, treatment,
timely manner. 
consults; re­education of 
and services by 
providers to cancel orders 
practitioners
that are no longer 
applicable.  
PC.01.02.01 Assessment
PC
01 02 01 A
t
and reassessment of 
patients

Nutritional screening 
N
t iti
l
i
criteria are not applied 
consistently and per 
policy. 
p
y

Revise dietary
R
i  di t
screening 
i
criteria – dietary, nursing 
and medical staff; update 
p
relevant policies
8

Page 16 of 105

 Opportunities for Improvement
Opportunities for Improvement
• J box cover missing
• Specify year of NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) 
standard used for testing and inspection
• Update human resource files and qualifications of staff to 
current job description
current job description
• Clarify process of orientation of CCDOC officers to hospital 
setting
• Appropriate fire stop materials within conduit
Appropriate fire stop materials within conduit
• Missing sprinkler escutcheon
• Cable lying on approved automatic sprinkler system
• 28 day labeling of insulin vials once opened
28 day labeling of insulin vials once opened
• Update Broselow Tape in ED (chart indicating appropriate 
pediatric drug dosing)
• Documentation of pre and post treatment assessment with HHN 
Documentation of pre and post treatment assessment with HHN
treatments.   
9

Page 17 of 105

 Response Plan
Each response is detailed: 
p
WHO, WHAT, WHEN, HOW
,
,
,
Distribute response templates with details
Identify process owner for each response
Insist on a multidisciplinary approach
Data collection plans required for specific citations to 
b i
be incorporated into Quality Indicators for 2015 
di
Q li I di
f 2015
where appropriate. 
• Preliminary response due in
Preliminary response due in‐house
house Friday, 12/5/2014
Friday 12/5/2014
• Final submission due to TJC 1/8/2015 (for 45 day) 
and 1/23/2015 (for 60 day)
•
•
•
•
•

10

Page 18 of 105

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 19 of 105

  
 
 
 
 

 

CCHHS John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital 
Quality Assessment and Performance 
Improvement Plan 
 

2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 20 of 105

 

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital Quality Plan 
Outline 
 
I.
II.
III.

IV.
V.

VI.
VII.

 Introduction 
 
Background, Scope and Purpose 
 
Governance and Leadership 
a. Role of the Governing Board 
b. Role of the Executive Medical Staff 
c. Role of the Hospitals Quality Committees 
d. Role of the Quality Department and the Chief Quality Officer 
 
Transparency 
 
Patient Safety 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events  
b. Event Awareness and Notification 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events 
i. Referral for Evaluation 
ii. Root Cause Analysis 
iii. Just Culture 
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans 
e. Proactive Risk Assessments 
i. Medical Staff Committees Which Measure and Improve Patient Safety 
(a) Blood Bank Committee 
(b) Cancer Committee 
(c) Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees 
(d) Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees 
(e) Environment of Care Committee 
(f) Infection Control Committee 
(g) Operating Room Committee 
(h) Surgical Function Review Committee 
ii. Failure Modes and Effects Analysis 
iii. Priority Patient Safety Projects 
f. Culture of Safety 
i. Assessment 
ii. Intervention 
 
Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction 
 
Quality Metrics 
a. Description 
b. Data Abstraction 
c. Performance Targets 
2

 

 

Page 21 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
VIII.

IX.
X.
XI.
XII.

 
 
 

 
System Quality Priorities 
a. Inpatient Metrics 
b. Nursing Specific Indicators 
c. Medical Staff and Quality Priorities 
 
Data Acquisition and Analysis 
 
Performance Improvement 
 
Confidentiality 
 
APPENDICES 
a. Appendix A:  CMS Regulation for Quality Plan 
b. Appendix B:  Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
c. Appendix C:  Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
d. Appendix D:  Quality Reporting Structure  
e. Appendix E:  Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee 
f. Appendix F:  Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events  
g. Appendix G:  Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
h. Appendix H:  Never Events (NQF)   
i. Appendix I:   Key Quality Priorities Inpatient Services 
j. Appendix J:  Medical Staff Committee Quality and Safety Indicators 
k. Appendix K:  Departmental Quality Indicators 
l. Appendix L:  CMS Inpatient Quality Reporting (IQR) Indicators 
m. Appendix M:  Hospital Acquired Conditions 
 

 

3

 

 

Page 22 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS 
Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 2015 
 
 
I.

II.

Purpose:  The Mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) is to 
provide a comprehensive program of quality healthcare, with respect and dignity, to all 
residents of Cook County, regardless of their ability to pay.  To support this mission, the 
System develops a Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for each 
affiliate, to specify the approach to quality improvement and to enunciate achievement 
targets for performance improvement, and to assure approval of the plan by the leaders of 
the organization including the Board of Directors and the Executive Medical Staff.  The 
purpose of this document is to set forth the Quality Assessment and Performance 
Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr. (‘Stroger’) Hospital for FY 2015. 
 
Background and Scope: A comprehensive quality improvement plan supports the Cook 
County Health and Hospitals System’s and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital’s goals to provide 
excellent, high quality patient care and outlines the specific mechanisms to achieve this 
goal.  The plan is a requirement under the Conditions of Participation of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) (APPENDIX A) and fulfills specific requirements of The 
Joint Commission (APPENDIX B and APPENDIX C), the accrediting organization for the 
Hospital and the Health System.  The plan is designed to be approved by the governing body 
of CCHHS which is the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its committee on 
Quality and Patient Safety, and upon approval by the Executive Medical Staff of Stroger 
Hospital and System Leadership.  By approving the plan, the Board of Directors, the System 
Leadership and the Executive Medical Staff are: 
a. Overseeing the quality and patient safety activities within the organization 
b. Ensuring that the organization takes a proactive approach to planning for 
patient safety and quality patient care 
c. Ensuring that an integrated safety program exists within the organization 
d. Setting priorities for performance improvement, evaluating the performance 
improvement practices in the organization and ensuring that performance 
improvement strategies and methodologies are implemented throughout the 
organization 
e. Ensuring data collection and monitoring in diverse areas as specified below 
f. Ensuring that the hospital analyzes and compares the data it collects using 
statistical techniques and that data and other information are used 
systematically for decision making. 
 
This plan reflects institutional patient safety and quality priorities for FY 2014 for Stroger 
Hospital.  The written plan allows the hospital’s Executive Medical Staff and the Board of 
Directors to ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s organization 
and services and involves all departments and services. The plan enumerates quality 
indicators and together with the Patient Safety Plan, describes the hospital’s process to 
prevent and reduce medical errors. This plan provides direction for a hospital‐wide, data 
driven quality assessment and performance improvement program.   
 
4

 

 

Page 23 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

III.

The structure of the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan is derived 
from the Triple Aim enunciated by the national quality strategy within the Affordable Care 
Act.  This directs health care providers to improve the care for individuals, assess and 
improve the care of populations and to lower per capita costs in health care.  In addition, as 
outlined by the Institute of Medicine Report, ‘To Err is Human’, quality improvement efforts 
in health care should ensure that patient care is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable 
and patient centered.  Stroger Hospital is committed to addressing all of these dimensions 
of quality within the Quality Improvement plan. 
 
At Stroger Hospital, quality assessment and performance improvement functions are 
divided into three major domains.  Thus the Quality Improvement plan is divided into 
sections to address each of the following: 
a. Patient safety involves the recognition, assessment and mitigation of serious 
safety events including sentinel events.  For details on targeted metrics refer to 
the Stroger Hospital Patient Safety plan. 
b. Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics include the ‘core measures’ 
or process measures required for reporting to CMS and the Joint Commission; 
outcome measures such as mortality, readmission rates, and rates of hospital 
acquired conditions; and measures of patient satisfaction with care.   
c. Performance improvement efforts focus on high risk, high volume activities and 
problem prone areas and set specific performance targets for these areas.  
Performance improvement projects may arise from tracking medical errors and 
adverse patient events which require corrective actions for risk mitigation.  
Interdisciplinary processes are used for performance improvement as described 
below.  After implementing improvement projects, the performance is tracked 
over time to assess the sustainability of improvement efforts.  
 
Governance and Leadership: Oversight of the quality plan for Stroger Hospital is provided 
by its governing body, the Board of Directors; by the medical staff through its elected 
representatives, the Executive Medical Staff Committee; and by the leadership of CCHHS.  
The plan is to be approved by Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee; 
by the Executive Medical Staff Committee of the Hospital; and by the Quality and Patient 
Safety Committee and the Board of Directors of the CCHHS. Quality and patient safety 
metrics are reported regularly as part of a quality and safety dashboard to the Executive 
Medical Staff and the Board of Directors in the same manner as described in APPENDIX D.   
 
Implementation of the Quality Plan is the responsibility of the Department of Quality and 
Patient Safety led by the Chief Quality Officer and executed in collaboration with 
departmental quality committees, hospital and system leadership and the System 
Departments of Risk Management, Legal, and Compliance. 
 
The Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee serves the dual function of 
oversight of the Quality Program as well as the Patient Safety Program.  The composition 
and leadership of this committee is presented in APPENDIX E. This committee meets 
monthly and reviews all quality metrics, departmental and committee quality data, patient 
safety data and prioritizes performance improvement projects.  The committee chair or 
5

 

 

Page 24 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

IV.

V.

designee reports the activities of the committee to the Executive Medical Staff on a monthly 
basis and the Medical Staff approves the minutes and activities of the committee prior to 
presentation to the Board of Directors. 
 
Transparency:  CCHHS is committed to transparency in the abstraction and reporting of 
quality metrics. These metrics, together with the performance targets set by the leadership, 
are to be disseminated widely among leadership and staff and will be available for viewing 
internally on the CCHHS website.   
 
Patient Safety Program:  The Stroger Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety 
Committee (‘Quality Committee’) is the multidisciplinary committee (APPENDIX E) which 
provides guidance and leadership for the Hospital’s patient safety program under the 
Director of Patient Safety (who serves as the hospital’s Patient Safety Officer).  The Quality 
Committee receives reports from medical staff committees as well as summary reports from 
the Hospital Oversight Committee and the Patient Safety Council. The Quality Committee 
determines the priorities for corrective action plans or performance improvement projects 
arising from the evaluation of such events as well as patient safety hazards identified by the 
medical staff committees which assess such risks. More detail can be found in the hospital’s 
Patient Safety Plan. 
 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The definition, reporting and evaluation of adverse events 
are dictated by regulation and hospital policy.  The initial reporting process is outlined in 
APPENDIX F.  All significant events are evaluated by departmental and/or hospital wide 
oversight committees. Root cause analyses are performed for all significant safety 
events as defined by hospital policy and the Joint Commission (APPENDIX G).  Other 
serious adverse events are defined by the National Quality Foundation (APPENDIX H). 
The results of investigations and recommendations for performance improvement are 
presented to the Quality Committee which prioritizes performance improvement 
activities and monitors progress toward the achievement of the plans.  The results of 
the evaluation of such events are reported to the hospital leadership and the Executive 
Medical Staff. 
 
b. Event Awareness and Notification:  Adverse events may be reported using a variety of 
systems.   
i. Electronic event reporting system: For Stroger Hospital the UHC Safety 
Intelligence © electronic reporting system is used and known locally as eMERS.  
This system also functions as a PSO (patient safety organization), and the events 
reported into this system have protection from disclosure in litigation; this 
feature allows honest and timely reporting which supports efforts to evaluate 
and mitigate potential risks. 
ii. Phone calls: confidential phone reports may be made by care providers to the 
Quality Improvement/Patient Safety department (phone line: 4‐SAFE or 4‐7233), 
to Risk Management, or to the Executive Medical Director.  These reports are 
also entered into the event reporting system by quality and risk and this allows 
tracking of all reported events. 

6

 

 

Page 25 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
iii. Departmental reports: Medical and Nursing departments have internal review 
processes to assess the quality of care provided by members of the respective 
department.  This includes oversight activities, case conferences, mortality and 
morbidity reviews, reviews performed for OPPE or FPPE (ongoing or focused 
professional practice evaluation), or evaluations conducted by the Medical Staff 
Peer Review Committee. 
iv. Referrals from outside agencies: Although rare, events may be identified during 
review by the QIO (Quality Improvement Organization) affiliated with the 
hospital, or by state or national regulators (IDPH; Illinois Department of Public 
Health, CMS; Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, The Joint Commission).  
All of the above events, regardless of the method of identification, are reported 
internally as described in APPENDIX F and evaluated as described below. 
 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The management of adverse and sentinel 
events is described in hospital policy.  Serious events are evaluated expeditiously and 
thoroughly with a goal to understand the contributory factors and to mitigate the risk to 
of future events. 
 
d. Just Culture and Accountability:  Stroger Hospital uses a ‘Just Culture’ approach to 
determine the level of individual accountability for adverse events.  The focus is on 
system factors but if there is an issue of individual accountability it will be referred to 
the management of that individual’s department as appropriate. 
 
e. Event Resolution and Action Plans:  The RCA should identify a series of changes in 
systems and processes to reduce the risk of recurrence of similar and should result in an 
action plan. The action plan will identify the person(s) responsible for the 
implementation of the plan, and define measures of success for the plan. Responsibility 
for monitoring the effectiveness of the action plan is delegated to the Quality 
Committee. 
 
f. Proactive Risk Assessments: Stroger Hospital conducts proactive risk assessments in 
several high risk areas.  Some of these assessments are conducted by the Medical Staff 
committees which evaluate specific clinical processes, as listed below (also, APPENDIX 
J).   One high risk process is selected annually for an in‐depth analysis of risk points 
utilizing the methods of failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA).  Several additional 
high‐risk, high‐volume areas are targeted by the hospital for special projects in FY 2015 
and these are described below. 
 
i. Medical Staff Committees: Medical Staff committees are required to collect and 
report data related to high‐risk processes in patient care.  These committees 
define priorities for process improvement and engage in improvement activities 
as described below; these are reported to the Quality Committee. 
1. Blood Bank Committee:  collects data on the appropriateness of the use 
of blood and blood products and on all reported and confirmed 
transfusion reactions.   

7

 

 

Page 26 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
2. Cancer Committee: reports results of cancer prevention, and 
psychosocial assessment of cancer patients. 
3. Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees:  the Critical Care committee 
collects data on diverse indicators related to intensive care.  FY 2015 
priorities for this committee include monitoring restraint prevalence 
and process, and improving the reporting of resuscitation results.   
4. Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees:  In FY 2015 
this committee will review appropriate utilization of medical therapy. 
5. Environment of Care committee: Evaluates environmental and life 
safety hazards, monitors the response to product safety and device 
alerts and recalls, and provides oversight of the Emergency Response 
Plan. 
6. Infection Control Committee: Priorities for this committee for FY 2015 
include reducing the risks of catheter associated urinary tract infections 
and monitoring and improving compliance with hand hygiene. 
7. Operating Room Committee: works collaboratively with the 
Departments of Surgery, Anesthesia and Nursing to enforce use of 
surgical checklists and time outs and improve OR throughput. 
8. Surgical Function Review Committee: a high priority for FY 2015 is to 
improve the timeliness of reporting of serious pathology results.    
 
ii. FMEA, or Failure Modes and Effects Analysis:  This is a multidisciplinary process 
which utilizes process mapping, identifies potential failure modes and examines 
the impact of these failure modes on patient care. A risk scoring system is used 
for identifying and evaluating improvement opportunities.  Stroger Hospital has 
selected the process of preparing and treating a patient in the operating room 
as a candidate for FMEA for FY 2015. 
 
iii. Priority Patient Safety Projects: Stroger Hospital has prioritized three high‐risk, 
high‐volume clinical processes for robust multidisciplinary process improvement 
initiatives in FY 2015.  Further details are available in the Hospital’s Patient 
Safety Plan.  These are described below: 
1. Adverse Drug Events (ADEs):  These events will be tracked and 
monitored using the eMERS system.  An ADE workgroup will be 
convened through the patient safety council to review the causes of 
ADEs and to complete performance improvement projects. 
2. Hospital Acquired Infections: CLABSI (central line associated blood 
stream infections) and CAUTI (catheter associated urinary tract 
infections) are both preventable with the use of infection control best 
practices and standard checklists.  A subgroup will be chartered through 
the patient safety council to improve the hospital’s performance in 
these areas using proven strategies and a team based approach. 
3. Hospital Acquired Conditions:  Patient falls and hospital acquired 
pressure ulcers (HAPU) are sources of morbidity for hospitalized 
patients and may also impact on the cost of care. Best practices have 
been described for the prevention and mitigation of these hazards.  The 
8

 

 

Page 27 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

VI.

nursing teams in collaboration with quality staff are applying these best 
practices in a systematic fashion to reduce the risk of these hospital 
acquired conditions among patients at Stroger Hospital.   
 
g. Culture of Safety:   Stroger Hospital is taking steps to improve the culture of safety in 
the organization.  Culture reflects the beliefs and attitudes of the hospital’s staffs, and is 
measured using a validated survey. Positive safety cultures are associated with 
increased reporting of adverse events and staff involvement in strengthening patient 
safety efforts.   
i. Assessment:  A safety culture survey, which is an assessment tool (validated by 
AHRQ and administered by a third party) will be administered at all CCHHS 
affiliates and is analyzed using national benchmark data.  The next survey will be 
performed in the Winter of 2015. 
ii. Interventions:  Several interventions are planned to enhance the culture of 
safety at CCHHS.  These include: 
1. Leadership walk rounds:  allows leaders to directly communicate safety 
priorities, support reporting behaviors and to hear staff concerns. 
2. Interdisciplinary rounds:  allow robust interdisciplinary planning of 
patient care, including pain management, infection prevention and 
discharge planning; these utilize a structured format and are led by unit 
based staff. 
3. Unit based safety programs: these provide opportunities for all staff to 
participate in quality improvement programs. 
 
Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction:  Patient feedback and perceptions of the 
safety and quality of care are vitally important to the development of a responsive, patient 
centered organization.  Stroger Hospital welcomes feedback, comments and complaints 
from patients and recognizes that patients and their families have the right to have 
complaints reviewed by the hospital. An established complaint resolution process 
implemented by the Office of Patient Relations receives, prioritizes and responds to all 
complaints from patients.  Serious consideration is given to every complaint, and hospital 
policy is established regarding timeliness of resolution.  These processes are designed not 
only to enhance patient satisfaction but to also identify conditions which may impact on 
patient safety. 

 

VII.

Structured surveys of selected samples of discharged patients are administered by an 
independent organization and the results are reported to hospital leadership.  This type of 
feedback from patients is used to restructure processes to support patient safety, 
communication and patient education. 
 
Quality Metrics:  Quality measures are collected and reported to monitor and enhance 
quality of care; to report to the federal state and county governments; for legal and 
regulatory purposes and to support reimbursement and pay for performance initiatives.   
This section describes the metrics, the methods of abstraction and performance targets for 
FY 2015. 
 
9

 

 

Page 28 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
a. Description of Metrics:  Under the inpatient quality reporting (IQR) program of CMS the 
metrics reported in APPENDIX L, M are abstracted and reported on a quarterly basis to 
CMS.  A subset of these measures is reported to the Joint Commission.  These measures 
are reported publicly on the site Hospital Compare and constitute a significant portion 
of the CCHHS quality dashboard.  
i. Process Measures:  Evidence based process measures reflect good clinical 
practice and high levels of achievement in these areas correlate with good 
patient outcomes.  These processes include stroke care, preventive 
interventions in all patients to reduce the incidence of thromboembolism in the 
hospital, to administer influenza vaccination and to properly care for surgical 
patients (APPENDIX L).  The hospital’s performance in these areas is used to 
determine the priorities for performance improvement projects. 
ii. Outcome Measures ‐ Mortality and Readmissions: CMS uses administrative data 
to calculate overall mortality, readmission rates to the hospital and rates of 
hospital acquired conditions.  
iii. Outcome Measures‐ Hospital Acquired Conditions:  Hospital acquired infections 
represent a major, and preventable, source of morbidity in the hospital 
(APPENDIX M).  In addition, a variety of hospital acquired complications are 
abstracted from hospital claims and reported publicly. 
iv. Outcome Measures – Emergency Department(ED) Throughput:  Wait times in 
the ED are monitored. ED wait times reflect hospital throughput and a hospital 
wide capacity management. 
 
b. Data Abstraction:  CCHHS uses computer supported data abstraction through the 
electronic medical record (EMR) system for the majority of IQR process measures.  
Cases are sampled using logic in the abstraction program (denominator) and there are 
links to the EHR to support manual abstraction. Numerator data are assessed case by 
case by the abstractor and compliance is measured as a percentage.  Data is abstracted 
monthly for all process measures but is reported quarterly; reporting to the Joint 
Commission occurs concurrently with CMS reporting.  Data submission is through a third 
party.  Data for outcome measures may be abstracted by hospital abstractors (ED data), 
or reported to CMS via standard channels (infection control data is first reported to the 
Centers for Disease Control through NHSN) or abstracted by CMS directly from its claims  
database (mortality, readmissions and hospital acquired conditions). 
 
c.  Performance Targets:  These are determined  by the type of data (process or outcome) 
and by indicator.  A subset of process measures have been selected for the Hospital’s 
and System’s quality priorities for FY 2015 (see below).  Performance targets are set at a 
higher threshold for these metrics, to the top decile (or > 90th %ile) of achievement. One 
set of outcome measures,  OR throughput, has also been selected as a quality priority 
(see below).  For all other measures, the achievement target for FY 2014 is above 
median performance (> 50th %ile).   
 
VIII.

System Quality Priorities/ Stroger Hospital Quality Priorities:  The Hospital quality priorities 
are to improve access to care, demonstrate excellence in the delivery of care and to improve 
patient satisfaction.  These priorities are divided into Inpatient and Nursing priorities, listed 
10

 

 

Page 29 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
in APPENDIX I and discussed below.  APPENDIX I also displays the baseline and target 
performance for each indicator.  The baseline measurement is Q3 of 2014 and achievement 
will be assessed in Q3 of 2015.  Data on progress toward the targets will be reported 
quarterly to the Board of Directors. 
 
a. Inpatient:  Delays in OR (operating room) start times and in room turnover in the OR 
may result in delays, inefficiencies and a lack of OR capacity to serve our patients.  A 
comprehensive program to improve OR throughput is planned for FY 2015 and the OR 
Committee (a committee of the medical staff) has been tasked with this performance 
improvement project. The targets for performance improvement in this area are 
aggressive and reflect best practices.  The key quality indicators also reflect goals in 
prevention – the use of thromboprophylaxis to decrease rates of hospital acquired 
thromboembolic events and the rate of influenza vaccination of inpatients. The target 
for these process measures is top decile performance. These aggressive goals will 
require comprehensive multidisciplinary efforts including nursing, administration and 
medical staff. Patient satisfaction with hospital care is reflected in the summary 
measure of ‘willingness to recommend the hospital’. 
 
b. Nursing Sensitive Indicators: Nursing sensitive indicators include fall rates and hospital 
acquired pressure ulcer rates.  Accurate data collection systems are in place for these 
indicators and target performance is reduction of these outcomes by 25%.  The nursing 
indicator of communication with patients reflects the hospital’s goal to provide 
excellent customer service and to enhance patient satisfaction.  
 
c. Role of Medical Staff in Achieving Quality Priorities:  The department chairs and medical 
staff are responsible to the Executive Medical Staff Committee and the Quality 
Committee for maintaining a consistently high level of patient care.  Each department 
has identified quality priorities which support the institutional goals as outlined above 
and has selected high priority indicators for regular reporting to the Quality Committee.  
These indicators are listed by department in APPENDIX K. 
 
IX.

Data Acquisition and Analysis:  The hospital collects data in a variety of settings to support 
the quality enterprise.  The Board of Directors along with System Leadership and the 
Executive Medical Staff set the priorities for data collection as well as the frequency of data 
collection.  The Board of Directors assures adequate resources to accomplish data 
acquisition and analyses required for the quality program.  The priorities and requirements 
for data collection for FY 2015 are summarized in the tables in APPENDICES I, J, K. Data is 
compared to external benchmarks whenever these are available and the significance of the 
comparison is evaluated using statistical techniques.  Data is displayed using run charts 
which show the evolution of performance over time and is correlated with performance 
improvement initiatives.  The data may be assessed using statistical process control 
techniques which can differentiate between special and common causes of variation; this 
information will be used to describe the nature of performance improvement initiatives 
which can best address variation.  The goal is to achieve high reliability in quality measures. 
 

11

 

 

Page 30 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
X.

Performance Improvement:  Priorities for performance improvement are established by the 
organizations leadership, which includes the Quality Committee, Executive Medical Staff, 
System Leadership and the Board of Directors.  High‐risk, high‐volume or problem prone 
areas are prioritized for performance improvement projects after consideration of the 
incidence, prevalence and severity of problems in these areas and whether these problems 
are known to affect  health outcomes, patient safety and quality of care. Performance 
improvement projects are proportional to the scope and complexity of the hospital’s 
services, as outlined in APPENDICES I, J and K. 
 

XI.

The hospital’s approach to performance improvement projects is in a transitional phase 
from P‐D‐C‐A to a Lean/Six Sigma Approach.  This choice reflects the emphasis on value in 
health care operations and the alignment of Lean concepts with value and the reduction of 
waste.  This approach accurately reflects the multidisciplinary nature of health care and the 
processes under study.  The Lean approach also supports the possibility of rapid cycle 
performance improvement which may be used in selected cases, particularly in unit based 
improvement programs.  Six Sigma addresses the variation in quality measurement which  
reflects the stability of the process under study.  
 
Performance improvement projects will address variation by designing high‐reliability 
interventions which are known to create sustained changes.  This includes system redesign, 
forcing functions, checks and redundancies and consideration of human factors.  High 
reliability organizations are characterized by sensitivity to operations, reluctance to simplify, 
a preoccupation with failure, deference to expertise and resilience. Monitoring of 
performance improvement activities will be provided by the hospital Quality Committee.  
Staff in the Department of Quality and Patient Safety will process data required for 
performance improvement projects and provide facilitation for these projects as required. 
 
Confidentiality:  All information, data, reports, minutes or memoranda relating to the 
implementation of this Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan are solely 
for use in the course of internal quality control for the purpose of reducing morbidity and 
mortality and improving patient care. As such, they are strictly confidential under the Illinois 
Medical Studies and Hospital Licensing Act. The confidentiality of patient specific data will 
be protected in observance of HIPAA regulations and aggregated, de‐identified data will be 
used whenever possible for quality data reporting. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12

 

 

Page 31 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX A 
CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) Regulations Guiding Quality Plans 
 
 
Regulation (CFR 482.21 sections A‐0263 ‐  A‐0267): 
 
The hospital must develop, implement and maintain an effective, ongoing, hospital‐wide, data‐driven 
quality assessment and performance improvement program.  The hospital’s governing body must 
ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s organization and services, involves all 
hospital departments and services (including those services furnished under contract or arrangement), 
and focuses on indicators related to improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of 
medical errors.  The hospital must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its QAPI program for review 
by CMS. 
 
(a)Standard: Program Scope 
 
i. The program must include, but not be limited to, an 
ongoing program that shows measurable improvement 
in indicators for which there is evidence that it will 
improve health outcomes and identify and reduce 
medical errors. 
ii. The hospital must measure, analyze, and track quality 
indicators, including adverse patient events and other 
aspects of performance that assess processes of care, 
hospital service and operations. 
(b)Standard: Program Data 
 
(1) The program must incorporate quality indicator 
data including patient care data and other relevant 
data, eg information submitted to or received from 
the hospital’s Quality Improvement Organization. 
(2) The hospital must use the data collected to (i) 
monitor the effectiveness and safety of services and 
quality of care and (ii) identify opportunities for 
improvement and changes that will lead to 
improvement. 
(3) The frequency and detail of data collection must be 
specified by the hospital’s governing body. 
 
(c)Standard: Program Activities 
 
(1) The hospital must set priorities for its performance 
improvement activities that: (i) focus on high‐risk, high‐
volume, or problem‐prone areas; (ii) consider the 
incidence, prevalence, and severity of problems in those 

13

 

 

Page 32 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
areas and (iii) affect health outcomes, patient safety 
and quality of care. 
(2) Performance improvement activities must track 
medical errors and adverse patient events, analyze their 
causes, and implement preventive actions and 
mechanisms that include feedback and learning 
throughout the hospital. 
(3)  The hospital must take actions aimed at 
performance improvement and after implementing 
those actions the hospital must measure its success and 
track performance to ensure that improvements are 
sustained. 
 
(d)Standard: Performance Improvement Projects 
As part of its quality assessment and performance improvement program the hospital must conduct 
performance improvement projects. 
 
(1) The number and scope of distinct improvement 
projects conducted annually must be proportional to 
the scope and complexity of the hospital’s services and 
operations. 
(2) A hospital may.. develop and implement an 
information technology system explicitly designed to 
improve patient safety and quality of care. 
(3) The hospital must document what quality 
improvement projects are being conducted, the reasons 
for conducting these projects and the measurable 
progress achieved on these projects. 
 
(e)Standard: Executive Responsibilities 
The hospital’s governing body, medical staff, and administrative officials are responsible and 
accountable for ensuring the following: 
 
(1) That an ongoing program for quality improvement, 
and patient safety, including the reduction of 
medical errors, is defined, implemented, and 
maintained. 
(2) That the hospital‐wide quality assessment and 
quality improvement efforts address priorities for 
improved quality of care and patient safety and that 
all improvement actions are evaluated. 
(3) That clear expectations for safety are established. 
(4) That adequate resources are allocated for 
measuring, assessing, improving and sustaining the 
hospital performance and reducing risk to patients. 
(5) The determination of projects is conducted annually
14

 

 

Page 33 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX B: 
Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
 
 
LD.01.03.01 
The governing  body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services. 
The governing body defines in writing its responsibilities 
 
LD.02.03.01 
The governing body, senior manager and leaders of the organized medical staff regularly communicate 
with each other on issues of safety and quality. Leaders discuss issues that affect the hospital and the 
population it serves, including performance improvement activities, reported safety and quality issues, 
proposed solutions and their impact on resources, reports on key quality measures and safety 
indicators, safety and quality issues specific to the population served. 
 
LD.03.01.01 
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety throughout the hospital. Leaders regularly evaluate the 
culture of safety and quality using valid and reliable tools and prioritize and implement changes 
identified by the evaluation. 
 
LD.03.02.01 
The hospital uses data and information to guide decisions and to understand variation in the 
performance of processes supporting safety and quality. 
 
LD.03.05.01 
Leaders implement changes in existing processes to improve the performance of the hospital. Structures 
for managing change and performance improvement exist. The hospital has a systematic approach to 
change and performance improvement.  Leaders provide resources required for performance 
improvement and change management. 
 
LD.04.04.01 
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement; set priorities for performance improvement 
activities and patient health outcomes, and give priority to high‐volume, high‐risk or problem prone 
processes for performance improvement activities. 
 
LD.04.04.03 
New or modified services and processes are designed incorporating multiple factors (i.e. patient/staff 
needs, results of quality activities, information about patient risks, and sentinel event information) 
 
LD.04.04.05 
The hospital has an organization‐wide, integrated patient safety program within its performance 
improvement activities.  The leaders implement a hospital‐wide patient safety program.  One or more 
qualified individuals or an interdisciplinary group manages the safety program.  The scope of the safety 
program includes the full range of safety issues, from potential or no‐harm errors to hazardous 
conditions and sentinel events.  All departments, programs and services within the hospital participate 
in the safety program. 
 
15

 

 

Page 34 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX C: 
Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
 
 
PI.01.01.01, EP 1‐8, 11, 12, 14‐16, 30, 38 
The hospital collects data to monitor its performance.  Leaders set priorities for data collection. The 
leaders identify the frequency for data collection.  The hospital collects data on 
 the performance improvement  priorities identified by leaders 
 operative and other procedures that place the patient at risk of disability or death 
 all significant discrepancies between preoperative and postoperative diagnoses, including 
pathologic diagnoses 
 adverse events related to using moderate or deep sedation 
 use of blood and blood components 
 all reported and confirmed transfusion reactions 
 results of resuscitation 
 behavior management and treatment 
 significant medication errors 
 significant adverse drug reactions 
 patient perception of the safety and quality of care, treatment, and services 
 effectiveness of fall reduction activities 
 effectiveness of response to change or deterioration in a patient’s condition 
 
 
PI.02.01.01, EP 1‐8 
The hospital compiles and analyzes data.  The hospital compiles data in usable formats, identifies the 
frequency for data analysis, uses statistical tools and techniques to analyze and display the data, 
analyzes and compares internal data over time to identify levels of performance, patterns, trends and 
variations, and compares data with external sources, when available. 
 
PI.03.01.01, EP 1‐4 
The hospital improves performance on an ongoing basis.  Leaders prioritize the identified improvement 
opportunities. The hospital takes action on improvement priorities.  The hospital evaluates actions to 
confirm that they resulted in improvements. 
 
 

16

 

 

Page 35 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX D: 
CCHHS Quality Reporting Overview 
 
 
 
 

Board of Directors 
CCHHS

Board QPS 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Stroger 
Hospital

Quality Committee 
Stroger Hospital

ACHN Quality 
Council

Cermak Health 
Services Quality 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Provident 
Hospital

Provident Quality 
Committee

 
 
 
 
 
*Reports to the Board may be provided by the Chief Operating Officer for Hospital Based Services or by 
the Chief Quality Officer or the Executive Medical Director 
 
 
 

17

 

 

Page 36 of 105

 

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX E: 
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee Description 
 
Committee Reports Received: 
Nursing Specific 
Indicators
Infection 
Control

OR Committee

Patient 
Satisfaction 
and 
Grievances

Medical 
Records

Environment 
of Care 
Committee

Committee on 
Cancer

Hospital Quality 
Improvement and 
Patient Safety 
Committee

Department 
Quality 
Reviews

Core 
Measures

Hospital 
Oversight 
Committee

Critical Care 
and 
Resuscitation
Drug & 
Formulary/ 
Drug 
Utilization

Surgical 
Function 
Review

 

 
Committee Membership:  
 
 
 
Committee Chair  and Vice Chair 
 
 
President, Executive Medical Staff 
 
 
Medical Department Chairs 
 
 
 
Executive Medical Director (System)   
 
Chief Quality Officer (System)   
 
 
COO Hospital Based Services   
 
 
COO Ambulatory Services 
Chief Nursing Officer (Stroger Hospital)   
 
Chief Financial Officer (Stroger Hospital)  
 
Director of Supply Chain Management (System) 
Chief Clinical Informatics Officer 
Director of Health Information (System) 
Director of Patient Experience (System) 
Director of Pharmacy (System) 
Director of Infection Control (System) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

Ex Officio  
Chair, Quality and Patient 
 Safety Subcommittee, 
CCHHS Board of Directors 
Executive Director of Nursing 
Director of Multicultural Affairs 
Chief Financial Officer (System) 
CMIO (System) 
Quality Staff   
 
 

 
18

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 37 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX F: 
Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events 
 
 

Clinical Adverse Event or 
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No 
Patient Harm

Attending Physician 
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per 
Attending Physician

Patient or Family Concern

Notify Risk Management 
Immediately

Enter into On‐Line Event 
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

Notify Department Chair 
or Oversight Committee

Notify Chief Medical 
Officer/Executive Medical 
Director

Notify Quality

Leadership Notification: 
COO, Executive Medical 
Director, Quality

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

19

 

 

Page 38 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX G: 
Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
 
The event has resulted in an unanticipated death or major permanent loss of function not related to the 
natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition§    
 
or 
 
1. The event is one of the following (even if the outcome was not death or major permanent loss 
of function not related to the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition): 
2. Suicide of any patient receiving care, treatment and services in a staffed around the‐clock care 
setting or within 72 hours of discharge 
3. Unanticipated death of a full‐term infant Abduction of any patient receiving care, treatment, 
and services 
4. Discharge of an infant to the wrong family 
5. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of any patient 
receiving care, treatment, and services# 
6. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of a staff member, 
licensed independent practitioner, visitor, or vendor while on site at the health care 
organization  
7. Hemolytic transfusion reaction involving administration of blood or blood products having major 
blood group incompatibilities (ABO, Rh, other blood groups) 
8. Invasive procedure, including surgery, on the wrong patient, wrong site, or wrong procedure** 
9. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedures 
10. Severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin >30 milligrams/deciliter) 
11. Prolonged fluoroscopy with cumulative dose >1,500 rads to a single field or any delivery of 
radiotherapy to the wrong body region or >25% above the planned radiotherapy dose 
** 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
§A distinction is made between an adverse outcome that is primarily related to the natural course of the 
patient’s illness or underlying condition (not reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy) and a death or 
major permanent loss of function that is associated with the treatment (including “recognized 
complications”) or lack of treatment of that condition, or otherwise not clearly and primarily related to 
the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition (reviewable under the Sentinel Event 
Policy). In indeterminate cases, the event will be presumed reviewable and the hospital’s response will 
be reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy according to the prescribed procedures and time frames 
without delay for additional information such as autopsy results. 
  Major permanent loss of function means sensory, motor, physiologic, or intellectual impairment not 
present on admission requiring continued treatment or lifestyle change. When major permanent loss of 
function cannot be immediately determined, applicability of the policy is not established until either 
the patient is discharged with continued major loss of function or two weeks have elapsed with 
persistent major loss of function, whichever is the longer period. 
#Sexual abuse/assault (including rape), as a reviewable sentinel event, is defined as unconsented sexual 
contact involving a patient and another patient, staff member, or other perpetrator while being treated 
or on the premises of the hospital, including oral, vaginal or anal penetration or fondling of the 
patient’s sex organ(s) by another individual’s hand, sex organ, or object. One or more of the following 
must be present to determine reviewability: 
n Any staff‐witnessed sexual contact as described above 
n Admission by the perpetrator that sexual contact, as described above, occurred on the premises 
n Sufficient clinical evidence obtained by the hospital to support allegations of unconsented sexual contact 
20

 

 

Page 39 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX H: 
Never Events (National Quality Foundation) 
 
Surgical or Invasive Procedures 
1A. Surgery or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong site 
1B. Surgery or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong patient 
1C. Wrong surgical or other invasive procedure performed on a patient  
1D. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedure  
1E. Intraoperative or immediately postoperative/postprocedure death in an ASA Class 1 patient 
 
Product or Device Events 
2A. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use of contaminated drugs, devices, or biologics 
provided by the healthcare setting  
2B. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use or function of a device in patient care, in 
which the device is used or functions other than as intended  
2C. Patient death or serious injury associated with intravascular air embolism that occurs while being 
cared for in a healthcare setting  
 
Patient Protection Events 
3A. Discharge or release of a patient/resident of any age, who is unable to make decisions, to other than 
an authorized person  
3B. Patient death or serious injury associated with patient elopement (disappearance)  
3C. Patient suicide, attempted suicide, or self‐harm that results in serious injury, while being cared for in 
a healthcare setting  
 
Care Management Events 
4A. Patient death or serious injury associated with a medication error (e.g., errors involving the wrong 
drug, wrong dose, wrong patient, wrong time, wrong rate, wrong preparation, or wrong route of 
administration)  
4B. Patient death or serious injury associated with unsafe administration of blood products  
4C. Maternal death or serious injury associated with labor or delivery in a low‐risk pregnancy while 
being cared for in a healthcare setting  
4D. Death or serious injury of a neonate associated with labor or delivery in a low‐risk pregnancy  
4E. Patient death or serious injury associated with a fall while being cared for in a healthcare setting  
4F. Any Stage 3, Stage 4, and unstageable pressure ulcers acquired after admission/presentation to a 
healthcare setting 
4G. Artificial insemination with the wrong donor sperm or wrong egg  
4H. Patient death or serious injury resulting from the irretrievable loss of an irreplaceable biological 
specimen  
4I. Patient death or serious injury resulting from failure to follow up or communicate laboratory, 
pathology, or radiology test results  
 
 
 
 
 
21

 

 

Page 40 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX H, cont’d: 
Never Events (National Quality Foundation) 
 
Environmental Events 
5A. Patient or staff death or serious injury associated with an electric shock in the course of a patient 
care process in a healthcare setting  
5B. Any incident in which systems designated for oxygen or other gas to be delivered to a patient 
contains no gas, the wrong gas, or are contaminated by toxic substances  
5C. Patient or staff death or serious injury associated with a burn incurred from any source in the course 
of a patient care process in a healthcare setting  
5D. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use of physical restraints or bedrails while being 
cared for in a healthcare setting  
 
Radiologic Events 
6A. Death or serious injury of a patient or staff associated with the introduction of a metallic object into 
the MRI area 
 
Potential Criminal Events 
7A. Any instance of care ordered by or provided by someone impersonating a physician, nurse, 
pharmacist, or other licensed healthcare provider   
7B. Abduction of a patient/resident of any age  
7C. Sexual abuse/assault on a patient or staff member within or on the grounds of a healthcare setting  
7D. Death or serious injury of a patient or staff member resulting from a physical assault (i.e., battery) 
that occurs within or on the grounds of a healthcare setting 

 
 
 

22

 

 

Page 41 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX I 
Key Performance Indicators – Inpatient Services 
 

Baseline 
Q3 2014

Target 

50  %ile

90  %ile 

Operating Room:
OR on‐time starts (%) 

37 

80 

64

88

Quarterly

Operating Room:
OR room turnaround 
time (minutes) 

51 min 

35 min 

29

23

Quarterly

Core Measure: 
VTE Prophylaxis 
General Care 

91 

99 

88 

99 

Quarterly

Prevention:
Influenza Vaccination 

75 

90 

93 

100 

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Recommend the 
Hospital 

67 

84.7 

72.4 

84.7 

Quarterly

Baseline 
Q3 2014

Target 

50  %ile 

90  %ile * 

Patient Satisfaction:
Communication with 
Nurses is ‘good’ 

69 

85.7 

79.5 

85.7 

Quarterly

Fall rate/ falls with 
injury 

0.6 

25% 
reduction 

‐

‐ 

Quarterly

Hospital Acquired 
Pressure Ulcers 
(HAPU) 

0.6 

25% 
reduction 

‐

‐ 

Quarterly

1 

Hospital Indicator

Nursing Indicator

 

2 

th

 
23

 

th

 

Page 42 of 105

th

th

Reporting 
Interval 

Reporting 
Interval 

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX J: 
Medical Staff Committees Quality and Safety Indicators 
 

Committee  

Indicators  

Data Source  

Reporting 
Frequency  

Blood Bank & 
Transfusion  

Transfusion 
Reactions  

Red Cells ‐‐ 
Appropriate  

Platelets ‐‐ 
Appropriate  

Chart review  

Semiannual  

Cancer 
Committee 

Quality project ‐ 
prevention 

Registry Report 

Psychosocial 
Evaluation 

Abstraction  
Chart Review 

Semiannual 

Critical Care & 
Resuscitation  

Ventilator 
complication rate  

Restraint 
prevalence & 
complications  

Resuscitation 
Results  

Inf Control data 
Nursing review 
GWTG data 

Semiannual 

Drug Usage 
Evaluation  

# ADRs reported 
monthly  

Allergy alerts 
overridden by 
user  

Drug‐lab alerts 
overridden  

Incident Reporting 
system; Cerner  

Annual 

Environment of 
Care  

Fire Safety  

Integrity Fire 
Doors  

Completion of 
EOC Rounds  

EOC rounds  

Semiannual 

Infection Control  

CAUTI rate  

CLABSI rate  

Handwashing 
Compliance  

Infection control 
dept  

Semiannual 

Medical 
Education  

Medication 
reconciliation 
performed  

Enunciate 
knowledge re DC 
safety  

Satisfaction 
with doctors  

Cerner 
HCAHPS 
Survey  

Annual 

Medical 
Information  

DC summary 
completed 30 d  

Operative notes 
completed  

Admission H&P 
signed 48 hours  

Cerner reports  

Quarterly  

Nursing Quality 

HAPU report 

Fall report 

Patient 
Experience 
Nursing 

Surveys 
Chart review 
Cerner reports 

Quarterly 

Operating Room 
     

Use of time outs  

Room TAT  

On time starts  

Chart reviews 
Incident reports  

Quarterly  

Patient Safety 
Council 

eMERS Summary 

Monthly Patient 
Safety Events 

Time from Last 
Sentinel Event 

eMERS 
Chart review 

Quarterly 

Surgical Function 
Review  

Discrepancies pre 
and post op 
diagnoses  

% Malignant 
Path reported in 
7 days  

% PAP smears 
F/U in one 
month  

Lab system 
reports  

Quarterly  

24

 

 

Page 43 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX K: 
Departmental Quality Indicators 
 
Department  

Indicators  
 

Data Source(s)  

Frequency  

Anesthesia  

•
•
•

Use of WHO check list 
Handoff to PACU staff 
Moderate sedation assessment  

Cerner 
Lighthouse 
Cerner IView  

Quarterly  

Correctional 
Health 

•
•

Grievance response times 
Nurse request reviewed in 24 hours 

Local 
Abstraction 

Semiannual 

Emergency 
Med  

•
•
•

Registration to provider (outpatient) 
Registration to admission (inpatient)  
Time to treatment long bone fractures 

Cerner 
Lighthouse  

Quarterly 

Family Med  

•
•
•
•

VTE prophylaxis ‐‐ inpatients 
Influenza vaccine – inpatients 
Influenza vaccine – outpatients 
Patients with appt 14 days post discharge 

 Lighthouse 
Cerner reports 

Quarterly 

Internal Med  

•
•
•
•

VTE prophylaxis ‐‐ inpatients 
Influenza vaccine – inpatients 
Influenza vaccine – outpatients 
Patients with appt 14 days post  discharge 

Lighthouse 
Cerner reports 

Quarterly 

Obstetrics/ 
Gynecology  

•
•
•
•

Caesarean section rate 
Elective delivery 37‐39 weeks 
Breast feeding initiation  
Skin to skin contact time 

OB database  

Quarterly 

Oral Health 

•
•

Chart review compliance 
Adverse event review 

Chart review 

Semiannual 

Pathology  

•
•
•
•

TAT  CBC and PT/PTT for ED 
TAT  blood product delivery to Provident  
Inpatient early morning draw refusal rate 
Critical results reported ‐‐ inpatient  

Lab system  

Quarterly 

Pediatrics  

•
•
•

Mortality in v. low birth weight infants 
Pediatric immunization rates 
Appropriate asthma care 

VON network 
CMApp  
Cerner  

Quarterly 

Psychiatry  

•
•
•

Outpatient clinic show rates 
Post natal depression screen  
Lab ordering and results follow‐up 

Chart review 

Quarterly 

25

 

 

Page 44 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
Radiology  

•
•
•

TAT Emergency Studies: Arch and Ectopic 
Contrast: abdominal CT 
Contrast: thoracic CT  

Cerner 
PACS data  

Quarterly 

Surgery  

•
•
•

SCIP: glucose control 
Intraoperative deaths/ 30 day mortality 
Unplanned Re‐operation within 7 days 

Cerner 
Lighthouse 
Cerner reports  

Quarterly 

Trauma  

•
•
•

Time to from Resus to Operating room 
Negative laparotomy rate 
Time from Resus to Burn ICU 

Chart review 
Cerner  

Quarterly 

 
 

 

26

 

 

Page 45 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX L 
CMS Inpatient Quality Reporting (IQR) Indicators – 2015 
 
Measure 

Abstracted 

AMI – Myocardial infarction 
AMI‐2 Aspirin prescribed at discharge 
AMI‐7a Fibrinolytic within 30 minutes 
AMI‐8a Timing of primary PCI  
AMI‐10 Statin prescribed at discharge 
ED‐‐ Emergency Dept Throughput 
ED‐1 ED arrival to departure time; admitted pts.
ED‐2 ED admit decision to ED departure time
PN – Pneumonia  
PN‐6 Appropriate initial antibiotic selection
IMM – Immunization  
IMM‐2 Influenza vaccination 
SCIP—Surgical Care 
SCIP Inf‐1 Antibiotics in 1 hr prior to incision 
SCIP Inf‐2 Appropriate selection of antibiotics
SCIP Inf‐4 Post‐op glucose control 
SCIP Inf‐9 Urinary catheter removal  
STK – Stroke Measures  
STK‐1 VTE prophylaxis 
STK‐2 Discharge on antithrombotic therapy  
STK‐3 Anticoagulation for Afib   
STK‐4 Thrombolytic therapy for stroke 
STK‐5 Antithrombotic by day 2   
STK‐6 Statin therapy at discharge 
STK‐8 Stroke education 
STK‐10 Assess for rehabilitation  
VTE – Prevention of Thromboembolic Events
VTE‐1 VTE prophylaxis 
VTE‐2 VTE prophylaxis in ICU 
VTE‐3 Overlap therapy 
VTE‐4 Heparin therapy per protocol  
VTE‐5 Warfarin discharge instructions 
VTE‐6 Potentially avoidable VTE 
PC – Perinatal Care 
PC‐01 Early elective delivery 
PC‐05 Breast milk feeding 
Other Reported Measures* 
Hospital Acquired Infections (NHSN) 
Patient Experience (HCAHPS) 
Mortality measures (CMS Claims) 
Readmission measures (CMS Claims) 
*  see Appendix M for details.  Measures in italics are optional 

 

 
27

 

 

Page 46 of 105

Allow EHR  
 
X 
 
 

X

X
X

EHR only 
X
X
X

X 
X 

X

X

X

X
X
X

X
X
X

 

X

‐ 

‐

 
 
 
 

X
X
‐
X

 
 
 
X 
 
X 
X 
 

‐
X
X

X 
X 
X 
 
X 
X 

X
X
X

X 
X 
 

X

X

X

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
Appendix M 
Hospital Acquired Conditions – 2015 
 
 

Condition 

Data Source 

PSI‐90 Hospital and Surgical Complications 
PSI‐03 Pressure Ulcers 
Claims 
PSI‐06 Iatrogenic Pneumothorax 
Claims 
PSI‐07 Central Venous Line Infections 
Claims 
PSI‐08 Post‐op Hip Fracture 
Claims 
PSI‐12 Post‐op Venous Thromboembolism 
Claims 
PSI‐13 Post‐op Sepsis 
Claims 
PSI‐14 Post‐op Wound Dehiscence 
Claims 
PSI‐15 Accidental Puncture or Laceration 
Claims 
 
 
HAI‐ Hospital Acquired Infections 
Central Line Associated Blood Stream Infections 
NHSN 
Surgical Site Infections 
NHSN 
Catheter Associated Urinary Tract Infections 
NHSN 
MRSA Bacteremia 
NHSN 
C Difficile Associated Disease 
NHSN 
Influenza Vaccination of Healthcare Workers 
Local/NHSN 
 
 
 
 
 

28

 

 

Page 47 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This page is intentionally left blank 

29

 

 

Page 48 of 105

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2014

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 49 of 105

  

 
 
 

 
CCHHS Ambulatory Services 
Quality Assessment and Performance 
Improvement Plan 
 

2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Page 50 of 105

 

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

Strategy 
 
I.
II.
III.

IV.
V.
VI.

VII.
VIII.

 Introduction 
 
Background, Scope and Purpose 
 
Governance and Leadership 
a. Role of the Governing Board and Medical Leadership 
b. Role of the Quality Director and Chief Quality Officer 
c. Role of the Quality Council 
 
Transparency 
 
PCMH 
 
Patient Safety 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events  
b. Event Awareness and Notification 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events 
i. Referral for Evaluation 
ii. Root Cause Analysis 
iii. Just Culture 
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans 
e. Proactive Risk Assessments 
i. Quality Committees Which Measure and Improve Patient Safety 
(a) Laboratory Committee 
(b) Nursing Council  
(c) Affiliate Infection Control Committee  
(d) Affiliate Environment of Care Committee 
ii. Priorities Patient Safety Projects 
f. Culture of Safety 
i. Assessment 
ii. Intervention 
 
Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction 
 
Quality Metrics 
a. Alignment with System Priorities  
b. Description 
c. Metric selection 
d. Data Sources 
i. HEDIS 
ii. EMR 
iii. CMApp 
e. Data Acquisition and Analysis 
 
2

 

 

Page 51 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
IX.

X.
XI.

 
 
 

 
Performance Improvement 
a. Performance Targets 
b. External Reporting 
 
Confidentiality 
 
APPENDICES 
a. Appendix A:  Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
b. Appendix B:  Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
c. Appendix C:  Quality Reporting Structure  
d. Appendix D:  Quality Council  
e. Appendix E:  Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events  
f. Appendix F:  Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
g. Appendix G:   Quality Performance Measures 
h. Appendix H:   PCMH  
i. Appendix I:  Meaningful Use Stage I  Indicators  
j. Appendix J: PQRS Clinical Quality Measures 

 

3

 

 

Page 52 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
I.

Introduction:
The Ambulatory and Community Health Network’s (ACHN) mission is to deliver integrated 
health services with dignity and respect, regardless of a patient’s ability to pay; to foster 
partnerships with other health care providers and communities in order to enhance the 
health of the public; and to advocate for policies which promote and protect the physical, 
mental and social wellbeing of the people of Cook County. Our vision is to provide accessible 
high quality comprehensive primary, preventative, coordinated specialty care and diagnostic 
services, utilizing a patient centered team based model of care.   
 
Goals: 
(1)  Integrate all patients into a Primary Care Medical Home and attach them to a 
Primary Care Provider of their choice.  
(2)  Actively engage patients and their families in their care and self‐management.  
(3)  Organize evidenced‐based patient care across all elements of the broader health 
system.  
(4)  Promote continuity in transitions of care from internal and external services.   
 
The purpose of this document is to set forth the Quality Assessment and Performance 
Improvement Plan for the Ambulatory & Community Health Network for FY 2015. The plan 
aligns with the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS), to provide 
a comprehensive program of quality healthcare with respect and dignity, to all residents of 
Cook County, regardless of their ability to pay.  The approach to quality improvement is to 
enunciate achievement targets for performance improvement, and to assure approval of 
the plan by the leaders of the organization including the Board of Directors and the 
Executive Medical Staff.   

 
II. Background and Scope:  The Ambulatory & Community Health Network is committed to the 
delivery of high quality patient care and sets forth a comprehensive quality improvement 
plan, which aligns with the United States National Quality Strategy, to improve the quality of 
care, reduce costs and improve health outcomes for patients serviced. The Joint Commission 
and CMS do not require organizations that solely provide Ambulatory non‐surgical care to 
have a formal quality plan in place.   At the same time, this plan supports the Cook County 
Health and Hospitals System’s goal to provide excellent, high quality patient care and 
outlines the specific mechanisms to achieve this objective.  
 
The Ambulatory Quality Improvement Plan is designed to be approved by the governing 
body of CCHHS which is the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its committee 
on Quality and Patient Safety after the approval by the Quality Council of ACHN and System 
Leadership.  By approving the plan, the Board of Directors, the System Leadership and the 
ACHN Quality Council are: 
  Overseeing the quality and patient safety activities within Ambulatory 
  Ensuring that the organization takes a proactive approach to planning for 
patient safety and quality patient care 
  Ensuring that an integrated safety program exists within the organization 
  Setting priorities for performance improvement, evaluating the performance 
improvement practices in the organization and ensuring that performance 
4

 

 

Page 53 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
improvement strategies and methodologies are implemented throughout the 
organization 
  Ensuring data collection and monitoring in diverse areas as specified below 
  Ensuring that ACHN analyzes and compares the data it collects using statistical 
techniques and that data and other information are used systematically for 
decision making. 
 
The structure of the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan is derived 
from the Triple Aim enunciated by the national quality strategy within the Affordable Care 
Act.  This directs health care providers to improve the care for individuals, assess and 
improve the care of populations and to lower per capita costs in health care.  As outlined by 
the Institute of Medicine Report  ‘To Err is Human’, quality improvement efforts in health 
care should ensure that patient care is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable and patient 
centered.  CCHHS and the Ambulatory & Community Health Network are committed to 
addressing all of these dimensions of quality within the Quality Improvement Plan. 
 
This plan reflects the ACHN patient safety and quality priorities for FY 2015.  The  plan 
enumerates the indicators related to  health outcomes and describes the ACHN’s process to 
prevent and reduce medical errors. The Ambulatory & Community Health Network  quality 
assessment and performance improvement functions are divided into three major domains.  
Thus the Quality Improvement plan is divided into sections to address each of the following: 
a. Patient safety: Involves monitoring of Meaningful Use documentation, the 
recognition, assessment and mitigation of adverse patient events, including 
sentinel events, and involves retroactive as well as proactive risk assessment. 
b. Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics:  Includes Meaningful Use 
measures, physician quality reporting system or ‘PQRS’ measures and measures 
of patient satisfaction with care.   
c. Performance improvement efforts:  Focus on high risk, high volume activities 
and problem prone areas and set specific performance targets for these areas.  
Interdisciplinary processes are used for performance improvement as described 
below.  After implementing improvement projects, the performance is tracked 
over time to assess the sustainability of improvement efforts.  
 
III. Governance and Leadership: Oversight of the quality plan for ACHN is provided by the 
Board of Directors, Board Quality and Patient Safety Committee, the Executive Medical 
Staff, and by the Executive Leadership of CCHHS.   
 
a. Role of the Governing Board and Medical Leadership:  
The plan is approved by the ACHN Quality Council and is approved by the Quality 
and Patient Safety Committee and the Board of Directors of CCHHS. The plan is 
shared with the Medical Staff of affiliated hospitals.  Results of patient safety 
assessments, quality metrics and results of performance improvement projects are 
also reported to the Medical Staffs and the Board of Directors in the same manner 
as described in APPENDIX C.   
 
 
5

 

 

Page 54 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
b. Role of the Quality Director and Chief Quality Officer: 
Implementation of the Quality Plan is the responsibility of the ACHN Department of 
Quality and Accreditation led by the Ambulatory Quality Director under the 
direction of the Chief Quality Officer and executed in collaboration with the ACHN 
Quality Council, System Leadership and the system departments of Risk 
Management, Legal, and Compliance. 
 
c. Role of the Quality Council: 
The ACHN Quality Council serves the dual function of oversight of the Quality 
Program as well as the Patient Safety Program.  The composition and leadership of 
this committee is presented in APPENDIX D. This Council meets monthly and 
reviews all quality metrics and patient safety events, and prioritizes performance 
improvement projects.  The Council chair or designee reports the activities of the 
committee to the Executive Medical Staff on a monthly basis.  
 
IV. Transparency:  CCHHS and ACHN are committed to transparency in the abstraction and 
reporting of quality metrics. These metrics, together with the performance targets set by 
the leadership, are to be disseminated widely among leadership and staff, and will be 
available for viewing internally on the CCHHS website.   
 
V. Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH):  The Ambulatory and Community Health Network is 
committed to the implementation of the PCMH model of care in primary care sites, and 
seeks to obtain the Joint Commission Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH) certification 
during FY 2015. A description of the core functions of the Medical Home is contained in 
APPENDIX I. This certification also supports the new federal health care reform strategy 
which is to improve health outcomes, continuity, quality and efficiency of health care 
services. The goal of the certification process is to evaluate how effectively a primary care 
provider and interdisciplinary team work in partnership with the patient and their family. 
This patient‐centric approach is encouraged and benefits patients by increased access to the 
primary care providers and their care team. Patient care is more efficiently tracked, 
coordinated and health information technology features are used to support care.  There is 
more patient involvement in the development of the treatment plan and a more significant 
role in the self‐management of their care.  Current PCMH improvement efforts include the 
launching of focused workgroups to oversee the implementation in these key areas: patient 
information, referral tracking, performance improvement, health literacy, patient access 
and primary care provider choice.  Staff and patient education regarding Medical Home 
functions are also important components of PCMH sustainability efforts. 
 
VI. Patient Safety Program:  The ACHN Quality Council is the multidisciplinary group (APPENDIX 
D) which provides guidance and leadership for ACHN’s patient safety program.  The Quality 
Council receives reports of adverse and sentinel event and determines the priorities for 
corrective action plans, performance improvement projects arising from the evaluation of 
such events and patient safety hazards identified.  
 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The definition, reporting and evaluation of adverse 
events are dictated by regulation and ACHN policy.  The initial reporting process is 
6

 

 

Page 55 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
outlined in APPENDIX E.  All significant events are evaluated by departments and 
the Quality Council.  Root cause analyses are performed for all sentinel events as 
defined by CCHHS policy and the Joint Commission (APPENDIX F).  The results of 
investigations and recommendations for performance improvement are presented 
to the Quality Council which prioritizes performance improvement activities and 
monitors progress toward the achievement.   
 
b. Event Awareness and Notification:  Adverse events may be reported using a variety 
of systems.   
i. Electronic event reporting system: electronic reporting systems such as 
eMERS, function within a PSO (patient safety organization).  This feature 
allows honest and timely reporting which supports efforts to evaluate and 
mitigate potential risks. 
ii. Phone calls: confidential phone reports may be made by care providers to 
the Quality Improvement/Patient Safety department, to Risk Management, 
or to the Executive Medical Director.  These reports are also entered into 
the event reporting system by quality and risk which permits tracking of all 
reported events. 
iii. Departmental reports: medical departments and the Nursing council will 
have internal review processes to assess the quality of care provided by 
members of their respective disciplines.  This includes oversight activities, 
case conferences, mortality and morbidity reviews, and reviews performed 
for OPPE or FPPE (ongoing or focused professional practice evaluation). 
iv. Referrals from outside agencies: although rare, events may be identified 
during review by state or national regulators (IDPH; Illinois Department of 
Public Health, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, The Joint 
Commission) or from litigation filed.  
 
All of the above events regardless of the method of identification are reported internally 
as described in APPENDIX E and evaluated as described below. 
 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The management of adverse and 
sentinel events is described in ACHN policy.  These serious events are evaluated 
expeditiously and thoroughly with a goal to understand contributory factors to 
mitigate risks and prevent future occurrences.  
i. Referral for Evaluation:  all reported adverse events are reviewed by Quality 
and Patient safety staff to determine the severity of the event and the 
urgency of evaluation.  ACHN is committed to performing a timely, thorough 
and credible root cause analysis (RCA) on all sentinel events and ‘Serious 
Reportable Events’ as well as all adverse events which do not fit either 
criteria but are deemed to require further investigation.  
ii. Root Cause Analysis:  the root cause analysis includes participation by 
appropriate ACHN leadership and the individuals most closely involved with 
the event or systems which contributed to the event.  The framework for 
the RCA is the one developed by the Joint Commission which focuses on 
systems and not individuals.  
7

 

 

Page 56 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
iii. Just Culture and Accountability:  ACHN uses a ‘just culture’ approach to 
determine the level of individual accountability for adverse events.  The 
focus is on system factors and individual accountability when appropriate 
 
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans:  The RCA should identify systems changes to 
reduce the risk of recurrence of similar events which should result in an action plan. 
The action plan will identify the person(s) responsible for the implementation of the 
plan and define measures of success for it. Responsibility for monitoring the 
effectiveness of the action plan is delegated to the Quality Council. 
 
e. Proactive Risk Assessments: ACHN conducts proactive risk assessments in several 
high risk areas.  High‐risk, high‐volume areas are targeted by ACHN for special 
projects in FY 2015 and these are described below. 
i. Quality committees which measure and improve patient safety: These 
committees are required to collect and report data related to high‐risk 
processes in patient care.  These committees define priorities for process 
improvement and engage in improvement activities.  
a. Laboratory Committee:  The laboratory committee provides 
oversight of laboratory practices and protocols to encourage 
uniformity, addresses laboratory issues and concerns affecting 
patient care delivery and quality of care.  
b. Nursing Council:  This group of nursing leaders oversees nursing 
practice and conduct internal review processes to assess the quality 
of care provided by members of nursing and other adjunct 
disciplines.  
c. Infection Control Committee: The priorities for this committee for 
FY 2015 include improving compliance with hand hygiene and 
patient and employee influenza vaccination.  
d. Environment of Care committee: This committee monitors 
environmental and life safety hazards which include oversight of the 
emergency response plan for product safety, device alerts and 
recalls.   
ii. Priority Patient Safety Projects: ACHN has prioritized four high‐risk, high‐
volume clinical processes for robust multidisciplinary process improvement 
initiatives.  These are described below: 
a. Transitions in Care: The discharge from the ED and inpatient setting 
is a particularly vulnerable time for patients, especially when there 
are limited financial, family and social resources available. The 
likelihood of readmission to hospitals, repeated ED visits, 
duplication of services is prevalent when patients are not 
reconnected with their primary care providers and/or health care 
teams. To optimize the safety of the discharge transition, in FY 2015 
ACHN seeks to enhance the in‐reach and out‐reach efforts for 
patients in collaboration with CCHHS and other hospitals in Chicago 
and the surrounding suburban areas.  The reinforcement of follow‐
up compliance with PCP’s and interdisciplinary teams is messaged 
8

 

 

Page 57 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
to patients. This will be monitored with the measurement of 
compliance with post hospital and ED discharge follow‐up within 14 
days and tracked.  
b. Learning Needs Assessment:  Learning barriers impact patients’ 
overall health status. Every individual has their own preference in 
how they receive new information. It is essential to identify barriers 
to improve patient learning and identify learning preferences to 
help optimize educational encounters.   ACHN developed and 
launched a Learning Needs screening tool in May 2015 to determine 
the learning and health literacy needs of its patient population. 
Interventions will be based on the findings.    
c. Patient and Employee Influenza Vaccination compliance: Influenza is 
a highly contagious and unpredictable virus that can result in 
serious illness and death, and can cause disease in all age groups. 
Vaccination is the most effective way to decrease transmission to 
patients and others. ACHN supports the CCHHS Employee Influenza 
vaccination program and has developed an EMR decision support 
driven patient vaccination program. Patient influenza vaccination 
surveillance data will be displayed internally in monthly system‐
wide informational briefs for all locations.   
d. Accurately Identifying patients:  Patient errors can occur in all stages 
of diagnosis, services and treatment due to not reliably identifying 
patients.  Using at least two identifiers is essential to preventing 
these types of errors.  ACHN continues to monitor the use of name 
and birth date identifiers at all point of service through 
observational audits of staff and the review of medical record 
entries.       
f.

 
Culture of Safety:   ACHN is taking steps to improve the culture of safety in the 
organization.  Culture reflects the beliefs and attitudes of ACHN staffs, and is 
measured using a validated survey.  A positive culture of safety is associated with 
the increased reporting of adverse events and the reporting of behaviors which 
strengthen patient safety efforts.   
i. Assessment:  An assessment tool (developed and validated by AHRQ) which 
allows comparison to benchmark data is used at CCHHS for the assessment 
of a safety culture.  It is administered at all CCHHS affiliates and is analyzed 
using national benchmark data.   
ii. Interventions:  Interventions will be performed in 2015 based on the culture 
of safety survey results to be administered in the Winter of 2015. These 
include: 
a. Leadership walk rounds:  These rounds permit leaders to directly 
communicate safety priorities, support reporting behaviors and to 
hear staff concerns. 
b. Interdisciplinary rounds or huddles:  These rounds permit the robust 
interdisciplinary planning of patient care initiatives, which include 
improving the patient experience, infection prevention and the 
9

 

 

Page 58 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
environment of care. These rounds utilize a structured format and 
are led by clinic based staff. 
c. Facility and clinic based safety programs provide opportunities for 
all staff to participate in quality improvement programs. 
 
VII. Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction:  Patient feedback and perceptions of the 
safety and quality of care are vitally important to the development of a responsive, patient 
centered organization.  ACHN welcomes feedback, comments and complaints from patients 
and recognizes that patients and their families have the right to have complaints reviewed 
by the organization. A complaint resolution process has been realized by the office of the 
Chief Operating Officer for ambulatory services.  Health center and clinic administrators 
receive, prioritize and respond to all complaints from patients.  Serious consideration is 
given to every complaint and ACHN policy is established regarding the timeliness of 
resolution.  These processes are designed not only to enhance patient satisfaction but to 
also identify conditions which may impact patient safety. 
 
Structured surveys of selected patient samples seen for office visits are administered by an 
independent organization. The results are reported to ACHN leadership.  This type of 
feedback from patients is used to restructure processes that support patient safety, 
communication and patient education. 
 
VIII.
Quality Metrics:  Quality measures are collected and reported to monitor and enhance 
the quality of care; to report to the federal state and county governments as applicable; for 
legal and regulatory purposes and to support reimbursement and pay for performance (P4P) 
initiatives.    
a. Alignment with System Priorities: Ambulatory quality priorities support the system 
priorities to improve access to care, demonstrate excellence in the delivery of care, 
and improve patient satisfaction. The Ambulatory Key Priority indicators are 
represented in APPENDIX G, which focuses on population health and prevention.   
b.  Description of Metrics:  A quality metric allows us to measure performance in 
different domains(sphere of influence):   
i. Outcome measure (O) – These measures assess the patient's health status after 
receiving health care services.  It can be used to evaluate the quality of care to 
the extent that health care services influence the likelihood of desired health 
outcomes. Examples include outcomes such as glucose control and childhood 
Immunization compliance. 
ii. Process measure (P) – These measures assess the actual health care service 
provided to or on behalf of a patient. Evidence based processes reflect good 
clinical practice. High levels of achievement in these areas may correlate with 
good patient outcomes. Examples are post hospital discharge follow‐up and 
telephone access. Timely follow‐up and the ability to communicate with care 
providers are vital toward preventing readmission and repeat ED visits.  
iii. Structural measure (S) – These measures describe features of a health care 
organization or clinical relevance to its capacity to provide health care. Examples 
are the use of CPOE and ePrescribe.     

10

 

 

Page 59 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
iv. Population health measures: These measures apply to groups of persons 
identified by geographic location, organizational affiliation or non‐clinical 
characteristics, in order to assess public health programs.  Communities may 
have influences on health or population‐level health characteristics that may 
not be directly attributable to the care delivery system. These measures are 
supported by evidence to demonstrate that they can indicate better or worse 
performance of population health activities. An example is influenza 
vaccination.  
 
c. Metric Selection & Data Abstraction:  Metrics are selected in support of best 
practices, evidenced based clinical care and regulatory requirements. They are 
approved and guided by the Ambulatory Quality council. CCHHS uses computer 
supported data abstraction through the electronic medical record (EMR) system 
which supports, the Care Management application (CMApp) and the abstraction of 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Meaningful use measures.  
    
i.
Quality Council:    The Council reviews data, prioritizes quality initiatives, 
patient care services, and conducts the review of suggested quality metrics 
from various work‐groups and subcommittees. The membership includes 
quality improvement staff, nursing directors and medical staff leadership; 
see APPENDIX D for the complete membership listing. 
 
ii.
Preventive Health Subcommittee:  This group promotes the use of evidenced 
based guidelines from leading practice groups and recommends preventive 
health practices with standardized approaches to health promotion and 
wellness. Comparative databases for benchmarking surveillance data are 
incorporated in collaboration with information technology (IT).  The 
development of EHR decision support tools and documentation redesigns 
are created through partnership with medicine and nursing. 
 
iii.

Chronic Disease Subcommittees:  These groups encourage population based 
management of chronic conditions that support improved health outcomes. 
The committees recommend evidenced based management approaches 
from leading practice groups in efforts to support the best possible 
outcomes and decrease the likelihood of patient complications.  The use of 
electronic population based care management registries in collaboration 
with information technology (IT), for surveillance of condition maintenance 
and trending is promoted.    

iv.

Nursing Council – This group provides oversight of nursing practice and 
seeks to influence improved patient outcomes, wellness and safety. 
Improving communication and education of patients and their families 
reflects their goal to enhance the overall patient health experience through 
engagement. Patients and their families play a significant role toward 
improving the safety and health outcomes of their own care. 
 

 

11

 

 

Page 60 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
d. Data Sources:  Different data sources are used to assist with the surveillance and 
evaluation of outcome and process measures. HEDIS, EMR abstraction and CMApp 
are data sources utilized for these purposes.  
i. HEDIS ‐ The Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set: A 
widely used set of performance measures developed and 
maintained by the National Committee for Quality Assurance 
(NCQA). The data provides benchmarks based on national or 
regional comparisons.    
ii. EMR ‐ Electronic Medical Record Abstraction: HIS report writers 
build customized reports as well as supply data and links to support 
adhoc abstraction.  Compliance is measured as a percentage. 
iii. CMApp – Care Management Application: An electronic registry 
database linked to the EMR, used for the Patient Centered Primary 
Care Medical Homes (PCMH) of CCHHS.  CMApp focuses on global 
and individual population based management of patient panels. The 
following reports are available in CMApp: 
 ACHN Quality Goals reports 
a. A1C in 12 months 
b. A1C > 9 in Diabetics 
c. LDL in 12 month 
d. LDL < 100 in Diabetics 
e. Age 1‐3 years with Lead screen completed 
 Panel reports to support management of patient panel size, 
provider scheduling and capacity analysis 
 Day of care plan report to support day of visit care 
 Outreach reports to support the patient list for population 
management 
 
e. Data Acquisition and Analysis:  ACHN collects data in a variety of settings to support 
the quality enterprise.  The Board of Directors along with system leadership and the 
Executive Medical Staff set the priorities for data collection as well as the frequency 
of data collection.  The Board of Directors assures adequate resources to accomplish 
data acquisition and analyses required for the quality program.  The priorities and 
requirements for data collection for FY 2015 are summarized in the tables in 
APPENDICES G and H. Data is compared to external benchmarks whenever these 
are available and the significance of the comparison is evaluated using statistical 
techniques.  Data is displayed using run charts which show the evolution of 
performance over time and is correlated with performance improvement initiatives.  
The data will be assessed using statistical process control techniques which can 
differentiate between special and common causes of variation; this information will 
be used to describe the nature of performance improvement initiatives which can 
best address variation.  The goal is to achieve high reliability in quality measures 
 
IX. Performance Improvement:  Priorities for performance improvement are established by the 
organizations leadership, which includes the Quality Committee, Executive Medical Staff, 
System Leadership and the Board of Directors.  High‐risk, high‐volume or problem prone 
12

 

 

Page 61 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
areas are prioritized for performance improvement projects after consideration of the 
incidence, prevalence and severity of problems in these areas and whether these problems 
are known to affect health outcomes, patient safety and quality of care. Performance 
improvement projects are proportional to the scope and complexity of ACHN’s services, as 
outlined in APPENDICES G and H. 
 
ACHN’s approach to performance improvement projects is in a transitional phase from P‐D‐
C‐A to a Lean/Six Sigma approach.  This choice reflects the emphasis on value in health care 
operations and the alignment of lean concepts with value and the reduction of waste.  This 
approach accurately reflects the multidisciplinary nature of health care and the processes 
under study.  The lean approach also supports the possibility of rapid cycle performance 
improvement which may be used in selected cases, particularly in unit based improvement 
programs.  Performance improvement projects will address variation by designing high‐
reliability interventions which are known to create sustained changes.  This includes system 
redesign, forcing functions, checks and redundancies and consideration of human factors.  
Monitoring of performance improvement activities will be provided by the ACHN Quality 
Council.  Staff in the department of Quality and Accreditation will process data required for 
performance improvement projects and provide facilitation for these projects as required. 
 
a. Performance Targets:  These are determined by the type of data (process or 
outcome) and by indicator.  A subset of process measures has been selected for 
ACHN for FY 2015, which are listed in APPENDIX G. The goal for outcome measures 
is to achieve all thresholds and set all targets above the national average. 
 
b. External reporting: Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics include the 
Meaningful Use, ‘PQRS’ or process measures required for reporting to CMS and the 
Joint Commission. 
i. Meaningful Use (MU):  Specific objectives are established for eligible 
professionals (EPs) and hospitals, which must be achieved to qualify 
for Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) incentive 
programs. It involves the utilization of a certified electronic health 
record (EHR) technology to improve quality, safety, efficiency to 
reduce health disparities. There is a focus on patient and family 
engagement which involves improved care coordination, population 
and public health. Logic is built is into the EMR for data abstraction 
and reporting to CMS.  The objectives evolve three stages (1, 2, and 3) 
over a five year period. The list of Stage 1 Ambulatory Meaningful use 
objectives is available in APPENDIX I.  
ii. Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS): CCHHS, ACHN and 
Stroger Hospital clinics will be reporting through the PQRS program 
for physician specific outpatient quality and Meaningful Use 
measures.  The PQRS metrics that reflect the burden of disease and 
major risk factors in our ambulatory population are listed in 
APPENDIX J. 
 

13

 

 

Page 62 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
X. Confidentiality:  All information, data, reports, minutes or memoranda relating to the 
implementation of this Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement plan are solely 
for use in the course of internal quality control for the purpose of reducing morbidity and 
mortality and improving patient care. As such, they are strictly confidential under the Illinois 
Medical Studies and Hospital Licensing Act. The confidentiality of patient specific data will 
be protected in observance of HIPAA regulations and aggregated, de‐identified data will be 
used whenever possible for quality data reporting. 
 
 
 
 

 

14

 

 

Page 63 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX A: 
Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
 
LD.01.03.01 
The governing body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services. 
The governing body defines in writing its responsibilities 
 
LD 02.01.01 
The mission vision and goals of the organization support the safety and quality of care, treatment and 
services.   
 
LD.02.03.01 
Leaders regularly communicate with each other on issues of safety and quality. Leaders discuss issues 
that affect the organization and the population it serves, including performance improvement activities, 
reported safety and quality issues, proposed solutions and their impact on resources, reports on key 
quality measures and safety indicators, safety and quality issues specific to the population served. 
 
LD.03.01.01 
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety throughout the organization. Leaders regularly evaluate 
the culture of safety and and implement changes identified by the evaluation. 
 
LD.03.02.01 
The organization uses data and information to guide decisions and to understand variation in the 
performance of processes supporting safety and quality. 
 
LD 03.03.01 
Leaders use organization wide planning to establish structures and processes that focus on safety and 
quality 
 
LD 03.04.01 
The organization communicates information related to safety and quality to those who need it, including 
staff, licensed independent practitioners, patients, families and external interested parties. 
 
LD.03.05.01 
Leaders implement changes in existing processes to improve the performance of the organization. 
Structures for managing change and performance improvement exist.  The organization describes its 
approach to performance improvement,   and its capacity for change support a culture of safety and 
quality 
 
LD 03.06.01 
Those who work in the organization are focused on improving safety and quality.  Leaders design work 
processes that focus on safety and quality issues and describe how those who work in the organization 
support a culture of safety and quality.  The effectiveness of those who work in the organization to 
promote safety and quality is evaluated.   
 
 
15

 

 

Page 64 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
LD.04.04.01 
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement; set priorities for performance improvement 
activities and patient health outcomes, and give priority to high‐volume, high‐risk or problem prone 
processes for performance improvement activities. 
 
LD.04.04.03 
New or modified services and processes are well designed incorporating multiple factors (i.e. 
patient/staff needs, results of quality activities, information about potential risks, and sentinel event 
information) 
 
LD.04.04.05 
The organization has an organization‐wide, integrated patient safety program within its performance 
improvement activities.  The leaders implement a hospital‐wide patient safety program.  One or more 
qualified individuals or an interdisciplinary group manages the safety program.  The scope of the safety 
program includes the full range of safety issues, from potential or no‐harm errors to hazardous 
conditions and sentinel events.  All departments, programs and services within the hospital participate 
in the safety program. 
 

16

 

 

Page 65 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX B: 
Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
 
 
PI.01.01.01, EP 1‐8, 11, 12, 14‐16, 30,  
The organization collects data to monitor its performance.  Leaders set priorities for data collection. The 
leaders identify the frequency for data collection.  The organization collects data on 
 the performance improvement  priorities identified by leaders 
 operative and other procedures that place the patient at risk of disability or death 
 all significant discrepancies between preoperative and postoperative diagnoses, including 
pathologic diagnoses 
 adverse events related to using moderate or deep sedation 
 use of blood and blood components 
 all reported and confirmed transfusion reactions 
 significant medication errors 
 significant adverse drug reactions 
 patient perception of the safety and quality of care, treatment, and services 
 Considers collecting data on: 
‐  staff opinion and needs; 
‐ Staff perception of risks to individual 
‐ Staff suggestions to improve safety processes 
‐ Staff willingness to report adverse events 
 
 
PI.02.01.01, EP 1, 2,4,5,8 
The organization compiles and analyzes data.  The organization compiles data in usable formats, 
identifies the frequency for data analysis, compares internal data over time to identify levels of 
performance, patterns, trends and variations, and compares data with external sources, when available 
and uses the results to identify improvement trends.   
 
PI.03.01.01, EP 1‐4 
The organization improves performance.  Leaders prioritize the identified improvement opportunities. 
The organization takes action on improvement priorities.  The organization evaluates actions to confirm 
that they resulted in improvements, takes action when it does not achieve or sustain planned 
improvements.   
 
 

17

 

 

Page 66 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX C: 
CCHHS Quality Reporting Overview 
 

Board of Directors 
CCHHS

Board QPS 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Stroger 
Hospital

Quality Committee 
Stroger Hospital

ACHN Quality 
Council

Cermak Health 
Services Quality 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Provident 
Hospital

Provident Quality 
Committee

 
 
 
 
The ACHN Quality Council reports ambulatory metrics to the Board QPS committee either directly 
through the COO of Ambulatory Services or through the Chief Quality Officer. The ACHN Quality Council 
communicates with the Executive Medical Staffs as required to support quality improvement and 
patient safety efforts.  
 
 

18

 

 

Page 67 of 105

 

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX D: 
Ambulatory & Community Health Network Quality Council  
 
Committee and other Reports to be Received: 
Patient 
Safety

Infection 
Control

Nursing 
Council 

Quality 
Council
Meaningful 
Use 
Governance

Environment 
of Care

PCMH  

Council Membership:    
 
Medical Director, Ambulatory Services                                         
Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory Services 
Director of Nursing, Ambulatory Services 
Director Quality & Accreditation Outpatient 
Facilities Manager (ACHN) 
 
 
Chief Quality Officer 
Associate Medical Director Primary Care 
Associate Director of Quality                                                
Lead Physician Central Campus 
Lead Physician North/West 
Lead Physician Oak Forest and South Suburban   
 
 
Lead Physician South Clinic Cluster 
Divisional Director Specialty Care Center 
Divisional Director Fantus /GMC Clinic 
Divisional Director North/West Cluster  
Divisional Director South Cluster 
Divisional Director South Suburban Cluster 
Nurse Clinician Quality ACHN 
Care Management Specialist 
AA III Quality 
Data Analysts 
19

 

 

Page 68 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 
 

APPENDIX E: 
Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events 
 
 

Clinical Adverse Event or 
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No 
Patient Harm

Attending Physician 
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per 
Attending Physician

Patient or Family Concern

Notify Risk Management 
Immediately

Enter into On‐Line Event 
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

Notify Department Chair 
or Oversight Committee

Notify Chief Medical 
Officer/Executive Medical 
Director

Notify Quality

Leadership Notification: 
COO, Executive Medical 
Director, Quality

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

20

 

 

Page 69 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX F: 
Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
The event has resulted in an unanticipated death or major permanent loss of function not related to the 
natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition§    
or 
1. The event is one of the following (even if the outcome was not death or major permanent loss 
of function not related to the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition): 
2. Suicide of any patient receiving care, treatment and services in a staffed around the‐clock care 
setting or within 72 hours of discharge, including the hospital’s emergency department (ED) 
3. Unanticipated death of a full‐term infant, Abduction of any patient receiving care, treatment, 
and services 
4. Discharge of an infant to the wrong family 
5. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of any patient 
receiving care, treatment, and services while on site at the hospital 
6. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of a staff member, 
licensed independent practitioner, visitor, or vendor while on site at the health care 
organization  
7. Hemolytic transfusion reaction involving administration of blood or blood products having major 
blood group incompatibilities (ABO, Rh, other blood groups) 
8. Invasive procedure, including surgery, on the wrong patient, wrong site, or wrong procedure** 
9. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedures 
10. Severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin >30 milligrams/deciliter) 
11. Prolonged fluoroscopy with cumulative dose >1,500 rads to a single field or any delivery of 
radiotherapy to the wrong body region or >25% above the planned radiotherapy dose 
12. Any elopement (that is unauthorized departure) of a patient from a staffed around the clock 
care setting (including the ED), leading to death, permanent harm or severe temporary harm. 
13. Fire, flame or unanticipated smoke, heat or flashes occurring during an episode of patient care. 
14. Any intrapartum (related to the birth process) maternal death or severe maternal morbidity. 
**____________________________________________________________________ 
§A distinction is made between an adverse outcome that is primarily related to the natural course of the 
patient’s illness or underlying condition (not reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy) and a death or 
major permanent loss of function that is associated with the treatment (including “recognized 
complications”) or lack of treatment of that condition, or otherwise not clearly and primarily related to 
the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition (reviewable under the Sentinel Event 
Policy). In indeterminate cases, the event will be presumed reviewable and the hospital’s response will 
be reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy according to the prescribed procedures and time frames 
without delay for additional information such as autopsy results. 
  Major permanent loss of function means sensory, motor, physiologic, or intellectual impairment not 
present on admission requiring continued treatment or lifestyle change. When major permanent loss of 
function cannot be immediately determined, applicability of the policy is not established until either 
the patient is discharged with continued major loss of function or two weeks have elapsed with 
persistent major loss of function, whichever is the longer period. 
#Sexual abuse/assault (including rape), as a reviewable sentinel event, is defined as unconsented sexual 
contact involving a patient and another patient, staff member, or other perpetrator while being treated 
or on the premises of the hospital, including oral, vaginal or anal penetration or fondling of the 
patient’s sex organ(s) by another individual’s hand, sex organ, or object. One or more of the following 
must be present to determine reviewability: 
n Any staff‐witnessed sexual contact as described above 
n Admission by the perpetrator that sexual contact, as described above, occurred on the premises 
n Sufficient clinical evidence obtained by the hospital to support allegations of unconsented sexual contact 
21

 

 

Page 70 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX G:  
Ambulatory Quality Performance Measures Chart 1   
Indicator 

Domain 

Target 
Performance 

Baseline 
Q3 2014 

Benchmark 
50th %tile 

Benchmark Data Source 
90th %tile 

Reporting 
Interval  

ACHN Quality Key Performance Indicators  
*Ease of 
moving 
through the 
clinic ‘good’ 

P 

75% 

63% 
Internal 
baseline 
 

84% 
Press Ganey 
Peer group 

88% 
Press Ganey 
Peer group 

CAHPS 
survey 

Quarterly 

*Ease of 
reaching 
clinic on the 
phone ‘good’ 

P 

75% 

59% 
Internal 
baseline 
 

86% 
Press Ganey 
Peer Group 

91% 
Press Ganey 
Peer Group 

CAHPS 
Survey 
 

Quarterly 
 

*Children 
with UTD 
immunization 
at 24 months 

O 

86% 

71% 
 

77% 
HEDIS 

86% 
HEDIS 

Cerner 
ICARE registry 

Quarterly 

*Diabetics 
with A1C  
< 9% 

O 

78% 

72% 
 

71% 
HEDIS 

81% 
HEDIS 

Cerner 
 

Quarterly 

*Provide 
Access for 
Post Hospital 
follow‐up 
within 14 
days 

P 

60% 

Establish 
baseline 

50%  
MHN Pilot 
Target 

29% 
DHFS 
Target 

MHN Connect 
Dashboard 

Quarterly 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

22

 

 

Page 71 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX G Cont’d:  
Ambulatory Quality Performance Measures Chart 2 
Indicator 

Domain 

Target 
Performance 

Baseline  
Q3 2014 

Threshold

Data Source 

Reporting 
Interval 

Patient Safety  
Medication Safety 
Medication 
reconciliation 
each visit 

P 

100% 
compliance 

75%  
compliance 

50% 
MU 
Stage1  

Cerner 

Quarterly 

CPOE completion 

P 

100% 
  compliance 

95% 
compliance 

60% 
MU 
Stage1  

Cerner 

Quarterly 

 ePrescribe 
completion 

P 

100% 
compliance 

94% 
compliance 

50% 
MU 
Stage1  

Cerner 

Quarterly 

P 

100% 

100% 

90% 
TJC  

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Hand Hygiene 
before/after 
patient and EOC 
contact 

P 

100% 

Q2 2014 
96% before 
96% after  

90% 
TJC  

Hand Hygiene 
Observation 
Audit 

Quarterly 

Patient with 
Annual Influenza 
Vaccination  

p 

90% 

24% 
2012/13 
Seasonal  

45% 
CDC 
 

Cerner  

Monthly 
during 
flu 
season 

Completion of 
Environment of 
Care Rounds  

S 

100% 

67% 

100% 
TJC 

Site Audit 
reports 

Quarterly 

Health Center 
Annual 
Emergency 
Disaster Drill 
completion  

S 

100% 

95% 

100% 
TJC 

Emergency 
Preparedness 
Critique form 

Annual 

Procedure  Safety 
Surgical/Invasive 
procedure Final 
time‐out 
completion  
Infection Prevention  

Environment of Care 

23

 

 

Page 72 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX G Cont’d:  
Ambulatory Quality Performance Measures Chart 3 
Indicator 

Domain 

Target 
Performance 

Baseline 
Q3 2014 

Benchmark Benchmark Data Source 
50th %tile  Top 10%tile

Reporting 
Interval  

Diabetics with Annual 
A1C 

O 

91% 

92%
 

82%
HEDIS 

91%
HEDIS 

Cerner 

Quarterly
 

*Diabetics with A1C  
<9% 

O 

78% 

72%
 

71%
HEDIS 

81%
HEDIS 

Cerner 
 

Quarterly

*Children with UTD 
immunization at 24 
months 

O 

86% 

71%
 

77%
HEDIS 

86%
HEDIS 

Cerner 
ICARE registry 

Quarterly

Patient with Learning 
Needs Screens  

P 

90% 
 

84%
 

90%
TJC Threshold

Cerner 

Quarterly

*Patient experience 
and satisfaction 
related to access and 
communication ‘good’ 

S 

75% 

Establish 
baseline 

91%
93%
Press Ganey  Press Ganey 
Peer Group  Peer Group 

CAHPS 
survey 

Quarterly

Provide Access for 
Post hospital follow‐
up within 14 days 

P 

31% 

Establish 
baseline 

*Ease of moving 
through the clinic 
‘good’ 

S 

75% 

63%
Internal 
baseline 

Prevention 

Patient Experience 

50% 
MHN Pilot 
Target 

29%
DHFS 
Target 

MHN Connect 
Dashboard 

84%
88%
Press Ganey Press Ganey 
Peer group  Peer group 

CAHPS 
Survey 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24

 

 

Page 73 of 105

Quarterly

Quarterly
 

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX H: 
ACHN – PCMH Requirements  

OPERATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS & REQUIREMENTS 
Patient Centered 
Care 
 
 
 
 

Relationship‐based care focuses on the whole person. Requires partnering with the 
patient, understanding and respecting their needs, culture, values and preferences:  
 Patient selected Primary Care Provider(PCP) 
 PCP, healthcare team and patient partnership 
 Consideration of patient’s preferences, cultural, linguistic & education needs 
 Patient involvement in establishing the treatment plan 
  Support for patient self‐management 

Comprehensive 
Care 

Team‐based health care with providers and other health care workers and services, 
working together to meet the complete needs of the patient: 
 Provision of acute, preventive, chronic, continuous and comprehensive care 
 Team‐based approach and the use of team approach to provide care 
 Use of external and internal resources to meet patients’ needs 
 PCP background and experience to handle healthcare needs 
 Care addressing phases of lifespan, including end of life care 
 Disease management 

Coordinated Care 

Care is coordinated across the broader health care system, including specialty care, 
hospitals, home care, community services and support. Transitions of care between 
care sites with focused emphasis on discharges from hospitals and emergency 
departments: 
 Use of internal and external resources to meet patients’ needs 
 Responsibility for care coordination 
 Team‐based approach 

Superb Access to 
care 

Services are accessible with shorter waiting times for urgent needs.  Enhanced in‐
person hours, around the clock telephone or electronic access is to the care team 
provided.  Alternative methods of communication such as e‐mail and telephone are 
available: 
 Enhanced access –timely responses to patients needs  
 24/7 availability  
 Access for special communication and non‐visit patient needs  

System‐based 
approach to quality 
and safety 

Using evidenced based medicine and clinical decision support tools to guide decision 
making. Using data to manage population health, chronic disease and performance 
improvement: 
 Population based care and care of patient panel 
 Use of Health IT for eRX and CPOE 
 Use of evidence based medicine and decision support tools 
 Patient involvement in performance improvement efforts  

 

 
25

 

 

Page 74 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX H Cont’d 
ACHN PCMH Key Metrics  
Indicator 

Domain 

Threshold  
Requirement 

Comprehensive Care & Care 
Coordination 
External Referral 
Submission & Completion  

P 

90% 
TJC 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

24/7 Access:  
Portal/Phone message 
follow‐up completion  

P 

90% 
TJC 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Patient Centeredness 
Self‐Management Goal(s) 
documented for  Diabetics 

O 

90% 
TJC 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

P 

90% 
TJC 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Quality & Safety  
Clinical Decision support 
influenza rule orders and 
vaccination completion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

26

 

 

Page 75 of 105

Data Source 

Reporting Interval 

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 
APPENDIX I 
Ambulatory Meaningful Use Stage 1‐Eligible Provider (EP) Measures 
Meaningful Use 
objectives  

Threshold 
Requirement   

%  Compliance
Q3 2014  

Data Source 

Frequency 

CPOE for medication 
orders 
 

30% 
 

95% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Incorporate lab results 

40% 

97% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Maintain active 
medication allergy list 

80% 

97% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Maintain active 
medication list 

80% 

92% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Maintain up to date 
problem list 

80% 

98% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Perform medication 
reconciliation 

50% 

75% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Provide Depart Summary 

50% 

70% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Record Patient 
Demographic 

50% 

99% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Provide Patient 
education 

10% 

98% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Record and chart 
changes in vital signs 

50% 

98% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Record smoking status 

50% 

97% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Patient Reminders  

20% 

60% 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Transmit prescriptions 
electronically 

40% 

94% 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

View‐Download‐
Transmit 

20% 

98% 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

 

 
27

 

 

Page 76 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
APPENDIX J 
PQRS ‐ Physician Quality Reported System  
National Quality 
Strategy Domain

Data 
Source 

Frequency 

Pneumonia Vaccination Status for Older Adults 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Use of High‐Risk Medications in the Elderly 

Patient Safety 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Diabetes: Hemoglobin A1c Poor Control 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Hemoglobin A1c Test for Pediatric Patients 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

IVD: Use of Aspirin or Another Antithrombotic 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Controlling High Blood Pressure 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Appropriate Testing for Children with Pharyngitis 

Population 
Health 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Childhood Immunization Status 

Population 
Health 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Appropriate Treatment for children with Upper 
Respiratory Infection 

Efficiency & 
Resource Use 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Preventive Care: Tobacco Use Screening and 
Cessation Intervention 

Population 
Health 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Breast Cancer Screening: Women 50‐74 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Cervical Cancer Screening: Women 21‐64 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Colorectal Cancer Screening: Adults 50‐75 

Clinical Process/ 
Effectiveness 

Cerner  

Quarterly 

Documentation of Current Medications 

Patient Safety 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Body Mass Index (BMI) Screening and follow‐up 

Population 
Health 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Preventive Care and Screening: Influenza 
Immunization 

Population 
Health 

Cerner 

Quarterly 

Clinical Quality Measure 

28

 

 

Page 77 of 105

 2015 
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

 

29

 

 

Page 78 of 105

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2014

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 79 of 105

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Board of Directors
9 December 2014

 

Page 80 of 105

Stroger Hospital Goals of the Plan
 Provide the regulatory framework guiding the development 






of a quality plan
Describe the structure and reporting responsibilities of 
quality committees
Describe basic requirements for a patient safety program 
including the evaluation and management of adverse 
events
Describe required quality reporting and priorities for 
performance improvement
f
 i
Discuss the preferred approach to data handling and 
clinical performance improvement
p
p
2
Page 81 of 105

 H it l Wid Q lit I
t d
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and 
Patient Safety Committee: Reports Received
Nursing 
Specific 
Indicators
Infection 
Control

OR 
Committee

Patient 
Satisfaction 
and 
Grievances

Medical 
Records

Environment 
of Care 
Committee

Committee 
on Cancer

Hospital Quality 
Improvement and 
Patient Safety 
Committee

Department 
Quality 
Reviews

Core 
Measures

Hospital 
Oversight 
Committee

Critical Care 
and 
Resuscitation
Surgical 
Function 
Review

Drug & 
Formulary/ 
Drug 
Utilization

Page 82 of 105

3

 Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and 
Patient Safety Committee: Membership

















President, Executive Medical Staff
Medical Dept Chairs
Executive Medical Director
COO, Hospital Services
COO, Ambulatory Services
Chief Nursing Officer (Stroger)
Chief Quality Officer (System)
Chief Financial Officer
Chief of Clinical Informatics
Director of Supply Chain
Di
Director of Health Information
  f H l h I f
i
Director of Patient Experience
Director of Pharmacy
Director of Infection Control
Committee Chair (if not listed above)
Committee Vice Chair (if not listed above)

 Ex Officio Members





Executive Director of Nursing
Director of Multicultural Affairs
Chief Financial Officer (System)
Chief Medical Information Officer 
((System)
y
)
 Chair, Quality and Patient Safety 
Committee, CCHHS Board of Directors
 Quality Staff 

4
Page 83 of 105

 Quality Governance & Reporting
Board of 
Directors CCHHS

Board QPS 
Committee

Executive 
Medical Staff 
Stroger Hospital

Quality 
Committee 
Stroger Hospital

ACHN Quality 
Council

Cermak Health 
Services Quality 
Committee

Executive 
Medical Staff 
Provident 
Hospital

Provident 
Quality 
Committee

5
Page 84 of 105

 Key Indicators
 Hospital
Hospital‐wide indicators describe areas of focus for 2015
wide indicators describe areas of focus for 2015
 Includes type and source of data, and baseline and target 

performance
 Reflects priorities:

 Access to care
 Quality of care
 Patient satisfaction
P ti t  ti f ti

 Will be reported regularly to quality committees and the 

Board
 Full set of indicators is as reflected in CMS reporting 
F ll    f i di
 i     fl
d i  CMS 
i  
requirements and described in the Quality Plan
 First, review of achievement of 2014 indicators
f h
f
d

6
Page 85 of 105

 St
H it l
Stroger Hospital 
Key Performance Indicators 2014
Baseline 1
Q3 2013

Current  
Q3 2014

Target

50th %ile

90th %ile 2

Reporting 
Interval 

AMI

98.8

99.5

100

98.9

100

Quarterly

Heart Failure

97.2

100

100

98.5

100

Quarterly

Pneumonia

91.5

100

100

98.1

100

Quarterly

SCIP Surgical Care

99

TBA

100

97.1

100

Quarterly

ED Registration to 
Discharge (Outpt)

347 min

269 min

240 min

133 min

93 min

Quarterly

ED Registration to 
Admission (Inpt)

620 min

440 min

480 min

272 min

175 min

Quarterly
l

61

67

71

72.4

84.7

Quarterly

Indicator

Pt. Satisfaction:
Recommend the 
Hospital
1
2

All values in percents except as stated
Core measure comparison data through Q1 2014 ‘Hospital Compare Preview Report’; CMS

7
Page 86 of 105

 Stroger Hospital 
Key Nursing Indicators 2014
Baseline 1
Q3 2013

Current  
Q3 2014

Falls/ Falls with 
Falls with
2
Injury

10
1.0

07
0.7

Decrease
by 25%

Quarterly

Hospital Acquired 
Pressure Ulcers2

3.0

0.6

Decrease
by 25%

Quarterly

C
i ti
Communication
with Nurses is good

63

69

79 5
79.5

Indicator

1
2

Target

50th %ile

79 5
79.5

90th %ile

85 7
85.7

Reporting 
Interval 

Q t l
Quarterly

All values in percents except as stated
Data normalized to 1000 patient‐days

8
Page 87 of 105

 Stroger Hospital
Stroger Hospital 
Key Performance Indicators 2015
Reporting 
Interval 

Baseline 
Q3 2014

Target

50th %ile2,3

90th %ile

Operating Room:
OR on‐time starts (%)

37

80

64

88

Quarterly

Operating Room:
OR room turnaround
time (minutes)

51 min

35 min

29 min

23 min

Quarterly

Core Measure:
VTE Prophylaxis 
General Care

91

99

88

99

Quarterly

Prevention:
Influenza Vaccination
Influenza Vaccination

75

90

93

100

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Recommend the 
p
Hospital

67

84.7

72.4

84.7

Quarterly

Indicator1

1
2
3

All values in percents except as stated
Core measure comparison data through Q1 2014 ‘Hospital Compare preview report’; CMS
Surgical benchmarks; various expert sources

9
Page 88 of 105

 Stroger Hospital
Stroger Hospital 
Key Performance Indicators ‐‐ Nursing
Baseline 
Q3 2014

Target

50th %ile

90th %ile *

Patient Satisfaction:
Communication with 
Nurses is ‘good’

69

85.7

79.5

85.7

Quarterly

with 
Fall rate/ falls
/
injury

0.6

25% 
reduction

‐

‐

Quarterlyy
Q

Hospital Acquired 
Pressure Ulcers (HAPU)
Pressure Ulcers (HAPU)

0.6

25% 
reduction

‐

‐

Quarterly

Indicator

1
2

Reporting 
Interval 

All values in percents except as stated
Core measure comparison data through Q1 2014

10
Page 89 of 105

 l di
Departmental Indicators
 Each department reviews its performance on a range of 






indicators under the leadership of the Chair of the 
D
Department
t
t
Departments may have additional indicators which are 
reported to the Quality Committee
p
Q
y
All departments will report compliance with clinical 
contracts affecting their department
All departments will report OPPE and FPPE for inclusion 
in personnel files
All departments will report results of oversight activities 
11
Page 90 of 105

 Departmental Indicators
Department 

Indicators 

Data 
S
Source(s) 
()

Frequency 

Anesthesia 

•
•
•

Use of WHO check list
Handoff to PACU staff
Moderate sedation assessment 

Cerner 
Lighthouse
Cerner IView 

Quarterly 

Correctional 
Correctional
Health

•
•

Grievance response times
Grievance
response times
Nurse request reviewed in 24 hours

Local 
Local
Abstraction

Semiannual

Emergency 
Med 

•
•
•

Registration to provider (outpatient)
Registration to admission (inpatient) 
Time to treatment long bone fractures

Cerner 
Lighthouse 

Quarterly

Family Med 

•
•
•
•

VTE prophylaxis ‐‐ inpatients
Influenza vaccine – inpatients
Influenza vaccine – outpatients
Patients with appt 14 days post discharge

Lighthouse
Cerner 
reports

Quarterly

Internal Med 

•
•
•
•

VTE prophylaxis ‐‐ inpatients
Influenza vaccine – inpatients
Influenza vaccine – outpatients
Patients with appt 14 days post  discharge

Lighthouse
Cerner 
reports

Quarterly

Obstetrics/
Gynecology 
y
gy

•
•
•
•

Caesarean section rate
Elective delivery 37‐39 weeks
y
Breast feeding initiation 
Skin to skin contact time

OB database 

Quarterly

Oral Health

•
•

Chart review compliance
Adverse event review

Chart review

Semiannual
12

Page 91 of 105

 Departmental Indicators
Department 

Indicators 

Data 
S
Source(s) 
()

Frequency 

Pathology 

•
•
•
•

TAT  CBC and PT/PTT for ED
TAT  blood product delivery to Provident 
Inpatient early morning draw refusal rate
Critical results reported ‐‐ inpatient 

Lab system 

Quarterly

Pediatrics 

•
•
•

Mortality in v. low birth weight infants
Pediatric immunization rates
Appropriate asthma care

VON network
CMApp 
Cerner 

Quarterly

Psychiatry 

•
•
•

Outpatient clinic show rates
Post natal depression screen
Post natal depression screen 
Lab ordering and results follow‐up

Chart review

Quarterly

Radiology 

•
•
•

TAT Emergency Studies: Arch and Ectopic
Contrast: abdominal CT
Contrast: thoracic CT 

Cerner
PACS data 

Quarterly

Surgery 

•
•
•

SCIP: glucose control
Intraoperative deaths/ 30 day mortality
Unplanned Re‐operation within 7 days

Cerner 
Lighthouse
Cerner 
reports 

Quarterly

Trauma 

•
•
•

Time to from Resus to Operating room
p
g
Negative laparotomy rate
Time from Resus to Burn ICU

Chart review
Cerner 

Quarterlyy

13
Page 92 of 105

 Performance Improvement
Performance Improvement 
Requirements‐ The Joint Commission












Operative procedures
Discrepancies between pre‐op and post‐op diagnoses
Adverse events related to moderate or deep sedation
Use of blood transfusions & transfusion reactions
Results of resuscitation & response to changes in a patient’s 
p
g
p
condition
Behavior management/ restraint use
Significant medication errors and adverse drug reactions
Fall reduction activities
Organ procurement conversion rate
Patient perceptions of treatment
Staff opinions, needs & perception of risk to individuals
14
Page 93 of 105

 Medical Staff Committees
Medical Staff Committees
Committee 

Indicators 

Data Source 

Reporting
Frequency 

Blood Bank & 
Transfusion 

Transfusion 
Reactions 

Red Cells ‐‐
Appropriate 

Platelets ‐‐
Appropriate 

Chart review 

Semiannual 

Cancer Committee

Quality project ‐
prevention

Registry Report

Psychosocial 
Evaluation

Abstraction 
Chart Review

Semiannual

Critical Care & 
Resuscitation 

Ventilator 
complication rate 

Restraint 
prevalence & 
complications
complications 

Resuscitation 
Results 

Inf Control data
Nursing review
GWTG data
GWTG data

Semiannual

Drug Usage 
Evaluation 

# ADRs reported 
monthly 

Allergy alerts 
overridden by user 

Drug‐lab alerts 
overridden 

Incident Reporting 
system; Cerner 

Annual

Environment of Care  Fire Safety 

Integrity Fire Doors 

Completion of EOC  EOC rounds 
Rounds 

Semiannual

Infection Control 

CAUTI rate 

CLABSI rate 

Handwashing 
Compliance 

Infection control 
dept 

Semiannual

Medical Education 

Medication 
reconciliation 
performed 

Enunciate 
knowledge re DC 
safety 

Satisfaction with 
doctors 

Cerner
HCAHPS
Survey 

Annual

Medical Information  DC summaryy
completed 30 d 

Operative notes 
p
completed 

Admission H&P 
signed 48 hours 

Cerner reports 
p

Quarterly 
Q
y

Nursing Quality

HAPU report

Fall report

Patient Experience  Surveys
Nursing
Chart review
Cerner reports

Quarterly

Operating Room

Use of time outs 

Room TAT 

On time starts 

Chart reviews
Incident reports 
Incident
reports

Quarterly 

Patient Safety 
Council

eMERS Summary

Monthly Patient 
Safety Events

Time from Last 
Sentinel Event

eMERS
Chart review

Quarterly

Surgical Function 
Review 

Discrepancies pre 
and post op  dx

% Malignant Path 
reported in 7 days 

% PAP smears F/U 
in one month 

Lab system reports 

Quarterly 

Page 94 of 105

15

 Use of Data in Performance Improvement
Current evaluation methods:





Plan‐Do‐Check‐Act method
Data display –
p y dashboard format
Data display – run charts to show improvement over time
Performance improvement activity is reported to the Quality 
Committee

Proposed evaluation methods:
 Proposed improvement methodology: transition to lean 

methods to focus on process and efficiency
 Intermediate steps: statistical process control charts to display of 
QI data
 Increase staff training in lean/six sigma concepts
 Use selected projects to apply concepts
U   l
d  j
   
l  
16
Page 95 of 105

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2014

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 96 of 105

  

Cook County Health Hospitals System
Board Members

M. Hill Hammock Chairman

Toni Preckwinkle
President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

 

John Jay Shannon, MD Commissioner Jerry Butler - Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Officer David Carvalho
Cook County Health Hospitals System Lewis M. Collens
Ada Mary Gugenheim
Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE
Rev. Calvin S. Morris, 
Ozuru O..Ukoha, MD Luis Munoz, MD, MPH
Premdent, Jorge Ramirez
Executive Medical Staff Carmen Velasquez
John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital Dorene P- Wiese, Edi)
of Cook County

December 5, 2014

Dear members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee:

Please be advised that the Executive Medical Staff of John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of
Cook County, at its November 18th, 2014 meeting, and an Executive Medical Staff
electronic poll concluded today, has recommended the actions on the enclosed
list. It is being presented to you for your consideration.

Respectfully

Ozuru O. Ukoha, MD
President, EMS

Page 1 of9

0 Ambulatory I Community Haul?: Helical-k 0 tumult Hamill: Saunas 0 Cook County Downward of Public lloal?c 0
0 John Singer, Jr. ?capital 0 Oak Forest Hal?: Cantor 0 Provision! Hospital 4* lull- banish (can? 0

Page 97 of 105

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to Approval by the Quality and

Patient Safety Committee

Braniecki, Marylee, MD
Appointment Effective:

Hafez, Nadim, MD
Appointment Effective:

Jha, Kamlesh, MD
Appointment Effective:

Mantis, Stelios, MD
Appointment Effective:

Mehiinger, Renee D, MD
Appointment Effective:

Moncayo, Ruth E, MD
Appointment Effective:

APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Pathology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Emergency Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Pediatrics/Neonatology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Pediatrics/Endocrinology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Detention Center
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Anesthesiology/Fediatrics
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Consulting Physician

Consulting Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

INITIAL. APPOINTMENT NON-PHYSICLAN APPLICATIONS

Dzidza, Thompson, PA-C

With Paul, Reena D, MD
Alternate Dawalibi, Salim J, MD
Effective:

Follenweider, Linda M, CNP
Vl?th Conway, Terrence J, MD
Effective:

Galvez, Edgardo L, CNP
With Keileher, Patricia, MD
Effective:

George, E, PA-C

With Schindlbeck, Michael A, MD
Alternate Lewis, Trevor, MD
Effective:

Durrani, Zia U, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rahman, Abed, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Correctional Health Services

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Medicine/General Medicine

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Medicine/General Medicine

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Emergency Medicine

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

BEAPPOINTMENT 
Department of Anesthesiology

Pain Management
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Pain Management
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner
Nurse Practitioner

Physician Assistant

Active Physician

Active Physician



I

APPROVED 

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY Co

Page 2 of 9

Page 98 of 105

on DECEMBER 9, 2014

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications {continued}

Department of Correctional Health Services

Lassen, Elizabeth Paige, DO
Reappointment Effective:

Tronshaw, Tapatia, MD
Reappointment Effective:


January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Detention Center
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Department of Emergency Medicine

Erickson, Timothy, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Guerrero, Pilar, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Gussow, Leon, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Harter, David, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Medicine

Attar, Bashar, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Albrecht, Joerg, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Franco?Sadud, Ricardo, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Ganschow, Pamela S, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Khandelwal, Sonali, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Lacuesta, Evelyn, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mba, Benjamin, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mason, Thomas A, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rivas Chicas, Oscar R,
Reappointment Effective:

Sengupta, Mandira, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Singleton, Lafayette, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Emergency Medicine
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Emergency Medicine
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016

Toxicology
December 16, 2014 thru December 15, 2016

Emergency Medicine
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Gastroenterology
December10, 2014 thru December 9, 2016

Dermatology
January 23, 2015 thru January 22, 2017

Hospital Medicine
December 14, 2014 thru December 13, 2016

General Medicine
January 18, 2015 thru January 13,2017

Rheumatology
January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2017

Endocrinology
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016

Hospital Medicine
December 13, 2014 thru December 12, 2016

Medicine/ACHN
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Gastroenterology
January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2017

Rheumatology
January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2014

Neurology
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016

Page 3 

Page 99 of 105

 

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician
Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician
Active Physician
Voluntary Physician
Active Physician
Voluntary Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician

Active Physician

corms [1 

APPROVED ?k 
THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY CoEanrEE
ON DECEMBER 9, 20 14

John H. Stroger, Jr. HospiLaI of Cook Countv

Reappointment Applications
Department of Medicine (continued)

Uday, Shreeyala, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Zehra, Tharanum, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Medicine/ACHN
December 14, 2014 thru December 13, 2016

General Medicine/ACHN
January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2017

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Abrego, Fidel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Fish, Karen, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Hudson-White, Carmen, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Pelta, Murray, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Pathology

Harper, Terence, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Pediatrics

Khan, Salman, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Hast, Howard, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Jandeska, Sara, MD
Reappointment Effective:

McConnie, Randolph, MD
Reappointment Effective:
Department of 
Watts, Jeffrey, MD
Reappointment Effective:
Department of Radiology

Kay, Daniel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Tailor, Kallolini S, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Obstetrics and Gynecology
January 18, 2014 thru January 17, 2016

Obstetrics and Gynecology
January 18, 2014 thru January 17,2016

Obstetrics and Gynecology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Obstetrics and Gynecology
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Anatomic Pathology
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016


December 11, 2014 thru December 10, 2016

Peds Critical Care
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Pediatrics
January 23, 2014 thru January 22, 2016

Pediatrics
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016


December 28, 2014 thru December 27, 2016

Radiology
January 18, 2014 thru January 17, 2016

Radiology
December 31, 2014 thru December 30, 2016

Page 4 of 9

Page 100 of 105


APPROVED 
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY
on DECEMBER 9, 2014

 

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

  

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Surgem

Abcarian, Herand, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Chan, Edie Y, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Giovingo, Michael C, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Greager ll, John A MD
Reappointment Effective:

Greenberg, David M, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Jacobs, Chad E, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Keen, Richard R, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Marcus, Elizabeth A, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Raksin, Patricia B, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Warren, William H, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Williams, Kenya M, MD
Reappointment Effective:
Department of Trauma

Dennis, Andrew, DO
Reappointment Effective:

Kaminsky, Matthew J, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Colon/Rectal
January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2017

General Surgery
January 23, 2015 thru January 22, 2017

Ophthalmology
December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016

Surgical Oncology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Ophthalmology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Vascular Surgery
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Vascular Surgery
December 15, 2014 thru December 14, 2016

Breast Oncology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Radiology
December 14, 2014 thru December 13, 2016

Cardiothoracic
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Radiology
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Burn Unit
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Trauma
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff

Barnes, Brenda L, PA-C
With Nasr, Isam F, MD
Alternate Bailitz, John M, MD
Effective:

Freeman, Bethann, PA-C

With Moskoff, Jordan B, MD
Alternate Schabowski, Shari, MD
Effective:

Gallagher, Maureen A., CNP
With Badri, Sheila M., MD
Effective:

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Emergency Medicine

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Emergency Medicine

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Medicine Infectious Disease

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Page 5 of 9
BY

APPROVED v,
THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY Cg?mnz

Active Physician
Voluntary Physician
Active Physician
Voluntary Physician
Consulting Physician
Voluntary Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician

Consulting Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician
Physician Assistant
Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner

x? 

?bx



on DECEMBER 9, 2014

Page 101 of 105

John H. Stroqer, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff (continued)

Huber, Andrea K.. PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Schaider, Jeffrey MD
Alternate Moskoff, Jordan 8., MD

Effective: January 23, 2015 thru January 22, 2017

Jackson, Rachel M., CNP Pediatrics Adolescent Medicine Nurse Practitioner
With Henry-Reid, Lisa M., MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Joseph, Elsy T, CNP Nurse Practitioner
With Kulik, Andrew Segovia, MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Lange, Jane A., CNP Surgery Urology Nurse Practitioner
With Hollowell, Courtney M.P., MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Miller, Barbara J., PA-C Gynecology Physician Assistant

With Yordan, Edgardo, MD
Alternate Sharma, Sameer, MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Novak, Mary Frances, CRNA Anesthesiology Nurse Anesthetist
Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Powers, Kathleen E., PA-C Surgery Surgical Oncology Physician Assistant

With Marcus, Elizabeth A., MD
Alternate Monahan, Denise A., MD
Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Rogowski, Wendy A., PA-C Medicine/Hematology/Oncology Physician Assistant
With Lad, Thomas E., MD
Alternate Mullane, Michael R., MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Sithichoke?Rattan, Noi, CNP Surgery Breast Oncology Nurse Practitioner
With Marcus, Elizabeth A., MD

Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Soriano, Alexandra, PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant

With Sergei, Michelle J, MD
Alternate Bowman, Steven H., MD

   

Effective: January 27, 2015 thru January 26, 2017
Stoltzner, Leslie A., CCP Surgery Cardiothoracic Perfusionist
Effective: January 18, 2015 thru January 17, 2017
Williamson, Willa L., CNP Surgery Urology Nurse Practitioner
With Hollowell, Courtney M.P., MD
Effective: December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016
Medical Staff Additional Clinical Privileges
Corrigan, Eliona, MD Mammography Interpretation Radiology
corms 
APPROVED 
Item1V(C)- December 9? 2014 QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY EE
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Page 6 0 ON DECEMBER 9? 20 14 

Page 102 of 105

John H. StrogerI Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)

Non-Medical Staff Additional Clinical Privileges

Martin, Kristine S., CNP Pediatrics /Ado escent Medicine
With Bell, Margo A., MD
Effective: December 9, 2014 thru August 25, 2015
Micci, Sandra J, PA-C Medicine/infection Disease

High Resolution Anoscopy and Biopsy
Effective: January 27, 2015 thru January 26, 2017
Sarazine, Julia T., CNP Medicine General Medicine
With Shariff, Ruhi R., MD
Effective: December 9, 2014 thru July 18, 2015

Medical Staff Status Change With No Change in Privileges

Samuel. Macob, MD Medicine/Pulmonary
Knadra, Suhaii, MD Medicine/Cardiology

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Page 7 0f 9

Page 103 of 105

corms
APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY
on DECEMBER 9, 20 14

Nurse Practitioner

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner

Active To Voluntary
Active To Voluntary

 

     

COOK COUNTY HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

Toni Preckwinkle Cook County Health Hospitals System
President Board Members
Cook County Board of Commissioners M. Hill Hammock . Chairman
John Jay Shannan, MD Commissioner Jerry Butler . Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Of?cer David Carvalho
Cook County Health Hospitals System Lewis M. Collens
Ada Mary Gugenheim

Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE
Rev. Calvin S. Morris, 
Luis Mu?oz, MD, MPH
Jorge Ramirez
Carmen Velasquez
Dorene P. Wiese, 

Anwer Hussain, DO, AAEM
President,
Medical Executive Committee

Provident Hospital
Of Cook County

December 5, 2014
Dear Members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee:
Please be advised that at the Credentials Meeting held on November 4, 2014 and December 2, 2014 the

Medical Executive Committee of Provident Hospital of Cook County recommended the actions on the
enclosed list. It is being presented to you for your consideration.

Respectfully,

  

Anwer us DO
President, MEC

Page8of9

0 Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network 4? Col-mall ?oalth Sorvlcos 0 Cook County Dopartmont of Public limit]: 0
0 John ll. Strogor, Jr. Hosvitul Oak Forost Health Cutter 0 Provident Hospital 0 Ruth M. Rothstoln con Cantor 0

Page 104 of 105

Provident Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff Action Items Subject to Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Garcia, Marlon Diaz, MD
Appointment Effective:

Kumssa, Admasu, MD
Appointment Effective:

Pierko, MD
Appointment Effective:

Polyakova, Elina S, MD
Appointment Effective:

Reynolds, Albert, MD
Appointment Effective:

Turbay, Rafael F., MD
Appointment Effective:

Yamani, Naser, MD
Appointment Effective:

APPLICATION

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Affiliate Physician

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Affiliate Physician

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8. 2016

Affiliate Physician

internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Affiliate Physician

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Active Physician

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Affiliate Physician

Internal Medicine
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Affiliate Physician

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATION

Department of Internal Medicine

Hollandsworth, Don LeRoy, DO
Reappointment Effective:

Medicine
December 19, 2014 thru December 18, 2016

Active Physician

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Abrego, Fidel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Fish, Karen, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surgegy

Totonchi, Emil F.H., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Obstetrics and Gynecology Active Physician

January 18, 2014 thru January 17, 2016

Obstetrics and Gynecology
January 18, 2014 thru January 17, 2016

Active Physician

Urology Active Physician

December 18, 2014 thru December 17, 2016

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff

Matlock. Sharon, CNM
With Cash, D., MD
Effective:

Shah, Chandrika, H, PA-C

With Crawford, Clifford S., MD
Alternate Ansari, Shahid A., MD
With Totonchi, Emil F.H., MD
Alternate Beck, Traci P., MD

With Ra?q, Asad,MD

Alternate Johnson, Claudia M., MD
Effective:

Item December 9, 2014
Quality and Patient Safety Committee

Family Medicine Certified Nurse Midwife
December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016

Surgery/General Surgery Physician Assistant

Surgery Urology
Internal Medicine Gastroenterology

December 9, 2014 thru December 8, 2016 
APPROVED
Page 9 no; 9

THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY 
on DECEMBER 9, 2014

Page 105 of 105

