Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, March 28,
2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis
M. Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; M. Hill Hammock; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis
Muñoz, MD, MPH; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (10)

Absent:

Director Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance and
Privacy Officer
John Cookinham – System Chief Financial Officer
Claudia Fegan, MD – Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director Stroger Hospital
Steven Glass – Executive Director of Managed Care
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Joyce Schoonover – System Director of Risk
Management
Tom Schroeder – System Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, February 28, 2014
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Hammock, moved the approval of the Minutes
of the Board of Directors Meeting of February 28, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 12, 2014
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of March 12, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, March 21, 2014
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of March 21, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, March 21, 2014
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as an attachment to Board Agenda)
During the presentation of the Minutes, Chairman Carvalho noted that, at the Finance Committee Meeting, he had
asked whether there might be more information to flesh out on request number 2 under the Contracts and
Procurement Items; he has learned that the administration does not have all of that information right now. He
stated that it is information that might be helpful going forward, so that information will be shared with the Board
as it is accumulated.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of March 21, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho abstained and voted PRESENT on request numbers 1 and 9, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.

E. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, March 25, 2014
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
Director Collens, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of March 25, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed Resolution in recognition and appreciation of Dr. Ram Raju (Attachment #1)
Chairman Carvalho read the proposed Resolution into the record. He and the Directors each thanked and
congratulated Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, for his efforts and achievements on behalf of the
residents of Cook County.
Chairman Carvalho, seconded by all Directors present, moved the approval of the proposed
Resolution in recognition and appreciation of Dr. Ram Raju. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachments #2 and #3)
The Board began its consideration of the items, beginning with request number 1. Gina Besenhofer, System
Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the request. Dr. Raju and Steven Glass,
Executive Director of Managed Care, provided additional information (Attachment #3). The Board reviewed
and discussed the matter.
Page 2 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Ms. Besenhofer indicated that the dollar amount on the transmittal was incorrectly calculated; she noted that
the briefing material is correct.
Chairman Carvalho noted that this contract has attracted a lot of attention, really more because of its size than
because of its risk. The risky decision, if there was a risky decision on the whole CountyCare exercise, was
the decision to have CountyCare, and to take that risk and sign the contract with the State to take a permember per-month (PMPM) payment and operate as CountyCare. This is not a risky contract, it is simply a
large contract, and it is large because it is a contract for a period of five years. 66% of this contract is going to
be writing out checks to the provider who provides the care. Once someone enrolls in CountyCare, if they
select a primary care doctor at a federally-qualified health center (FQHC), there is going to be a check written
to that FQHC for services provided to that member. If the member is then admitted to Stroger Hospital, there
is going to be a paper transaction to account for the services provided to that member. If the member is
admitted to Northwestern Hospital, then there will be a check written to Northwestern Hospital for services
provided to that member. As this is a once-in-a-career type of contract, Dr. Raju, Mr. Glass and the team have
all brought in some outside expertise, people who are well-versed in this type of contracting, to help analyze
this matter. He congratulated them on recognizing that is a very important thing to do; by bringing in outside
legal, accounting and analytic expertise, this contract benefits from that good decision.
Mr. Glass responded to a question from Director Collens regarding the coordination of care for those members
who may go in and out of eligibility for CountyCare due to reasons such as fluctuating income or health status.
He stated that the health plan that pays is the plan that had the coverage and responsibility at the time service
was delivered to that person. The health plans know who their members are; they receive a list of monthly
membership. If CountyCare administrators receive a claim for someone who is no longer a CountyCare
member that month, they would reject it because that person is no longer a CountyCare member. The more
difficult risk is the patient care risk – what happens to that individual member when they have to move
between coverage, and the coverage benefits might be different, or the network might be different. Mr. Glass
stated that they have seen some real cases and examples of that already, particularly around individuals who
qualify under disability. There were several CountyCare members who were believed to be able to qualify for
disability coverage, so staff helped them to apply; when their disability coverage gets approved, it is often
retroactive as well, but at that point in time staff has been working with that member for months and now all of
a sudden they cannot help them, because they are not being paid to support them - that is the bigger risk. That
goes back to why the administration has this vision of being able to offer multiple products, all for a multiple
span of coverage, whether it be on Medicaid or the health insurance marketplace, because first and foremost,
the System is that provider of care; the System’s staff want to still be able to provide that support as a provider
and still be able to get compensation for that.
Mr. Glass stated that, under the Waiver authority, which the System will have until June 30th, the capitation
payment starts the first of the month of application; the System is able to bill fee-for-service for ninety days
retroactive prior to that for any services provided at the System. Once the System moves into the Managed
Care Community Network (MCCN) agreement, that changes and the System will fall in line with all of the
other managed care plans - instead of being a retrospective capitation, it is a prospective capitation that
depends on the date that the application was approved. If the application is approved within the first fifteen
days of the month, it is the first of the month following; if it is the last fifteen days of the month, it is the first
of the month two months later.

Page 3 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Director Hammock noted that uncompensated care has already dropped from 54% to 43%; he inquired
whether it has been forecasted as to how much more that figure might drop. John Cookinham, System Chief
Financial Officer, responded that staff could graph the decline that has been experienced and project it
forward; however, it would be a guess, as the System will always be providing services for which it will not be
paid, both to the undocumented population and for areas like Cermak Health Services of Cook County. Dr.
Raju added that what is unpredictable is how many of the other providers will send their uninsured population
to Cook County; that will be the unknown element.
Chairman Carvalho stated that the System’s Mission Statement talks about this System being an advocate for
the populations it serves, and one of the sections in the Enabling Ordinance references this Board’s obligations
as an advocate – going forward, that should include being advocates for the responsibility of other hospitals to
meet their charitable care obligations and license obligations by shouldering a fair share of the responsibility
for the uninsured, especially in light of how much of their current uncompensated care is going to convert to
compensated care due to the Affordable Care Act (ACA).
Director Hammock inquired regarding emergency services provided to CountyCare members by providers
outside of the network. Mr. Glass stated that, in emergency settings, if the provider is not a contracted
provider, and in the absence of any other negotiated agreement, the System pays Medicaid rates.
Director Wiese inquired whether Medicaid has changed its system under which people are given
documentation proving their coverage that only covered them for a period of thirty days. Mr. Glass responded
that there have been some changes to the law regarding that; he believed that this varies under the different
Medicaid plans, but under CountyCare, once someone is deemed eligible to receive Medicaid benefits, there is
a redetermination period of one year from the initial determination. If there are any changes within that year,
it is the beneficiary’s obligation to notify the Illinois Department of Human Services of that change.
Following further discussion, it was determined that Mr. Glass will inquire further regarding Director Wiese’s
question and will provide a response.
With regard to the information provided on the Medical Home Network (MHN) Accountable Care
Organization (ACO), Director Lerner inquired how that ACO, in its formative state, will relate to CountyCare.
Mr. Glass stated that working with MHN will help obviate some of the other problems; for example, MHN has
started to create a common database where an entity will know quickly if one of its patients goes to another
emergency room; when this occurs, the entity can work faster to bring that patient back for continued care
within the entity, so that is an advantage. Dr. Raju stated that the System needs to transfer the risk to MHN, so
that the providers work for them. The ACO for the outside network providers needs to be created so that they
will all be in one area; this will ensure that they will follow the utilization plan and meet quality expectations,
while making sure that it is a cost-effective way of providing care. The idea is eventually to transfer the risk
from the System to the providers.
In response to Director Velasquez’ questions regarding the status of the MCCN contract, Mr. Glass stated that
the administration is in active negotiations with representatives from the State’s Department of Healthcare and
Family Services. He hopes to have the negotiations completed by April 30th; the Board can expect to see that
matter in April or May.

Page 4 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 5

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to key performance indicators, Mr. Glass stated that the CountyCare Director of Operations, Jerry
Kiplinger, is charged with developing this; he, in partnership with the folks at IlliniCare, have already defined
the indicators, in terms of the implementation phase, which is expected to take four months. They have also
established some key performance indicators for the long-term management. Today the request is to continue
negotiations and be authorized to enter into the contract with IlliniCare; once those activities have been
completed, staff will return to the respective committees and to the Board as a whole for ratification of what
they are recommending for key performance indicators, which would then be reported moving forward.
Director Velasquez referenced issues with delays in payments made by the State; she noted that this causes
problems with cash flow for the vendors and recipients. Chairman Carvalho stated that, because of the
Intergovernmental Transfer arrangement with the State, the System has had a unique relationship under which
the State gives it the money more quickly. With regard to cash flow problems for other providers due to
delays in payments from the State, it is most often because the State has to come up with 50 cents on the dollar
for their share of the payment; while the federal government is happy to give their 50 cents, the State
sometimes is struggling to get their 50 cents. Because in the System’s situation the State does not have to
come up with 50 cents on the dollar, historically the System has not had problems with receiving payment
from the State. With regard to the System’s responsibility to pay providers on a timely basis, Mr. Glass stated
that the System’s contractual obligation is that 90% of claims are to be paid within thirty days, and 99% of
claims are to be paid within ninety days.
In response to Chairman Butler’s inquiry regarding whether CountyCare covers care provided outside of the
State of Illinois, Mr. Glass stated that if a member requires emergency care in Indiana, for example, and it is
truly an emergency, under Federal law, the health plans are required to pay that. Once the patient gets stable,
then IlliniCare staff can try to negotiate and manage the care. What would not be covered is if a member
relocated to Indiana; they would no longer be eligible for CountyCare as it is an Illinois Medicaid program.
Director Collens inquired whether there will be an agreed-upon monthly payment per member to the medical
home for managing that person. Mr. Glass responded in the negative. He stated that, currently, all of those
contracts are set as fee-for-service – the System pays that provider when they bill the System for services
provided to that member. In the future, the System may move to a monthly payment, so for the panel of
patients that a provider has, the System would pay them a PMPM sub-payment. They would then be
responsible for the management of care within that cost. The medical home is really a care model, not a
financial model. Chairman Carvalho noted that a benefit to creating an MHN ACO would be to try to move
the care model to also be a financial model. Mr. Glass stated that the hope is that the end result will be wellmanaged and healthy members; the focus is prevention and population management.
In response to Director Lerner’s question regarding whether there will be a profit and loss statement prepared,
Dr. Raju responded in the affirmative. He noted that, although the capitation payments are deposited into the
Health Fund and payments are made by the County, financial information on CountyCare is reflected in the
monthly financial reports that are presented to the Finance Committee.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Collens, moved the approval of request number 1.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Ms. Besenhofer provided an overview of request numbers 2 through 5. The Board reviewed and discussed
the requests.
Page 5 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 6

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Director Lerner requested that the Minutes of this meeting reflect the support from the Board, not just for the
contract, but for the work that has been done in the years past to get the System to this point, and for the
vision for the future of this System.
Director Hammock, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved the approval of request
numbers 2 through 5. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
At Chairman Carvalho’s request, the proposed Resolution to honor Dr. Raju (Item IV(A) was considered at this
time.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Raju provided his final report to the Board. His remarks were as follows.
Dr. Raju Closing Remarks                                                                                                                              
CCHHS Board Meeting                                                                                                                                             
Friday, March 28, 2014 
 
As I prepare to return to New York, thank you for your graciousness to allow me to speak the last time as the 
CEO  of  this  iconic  organization  that  was  part  of  my  life  for  the past  2  1/2  years.  With  great  humility  and  a 
deep  sense  of  gratitude,  I  want  to  share  my  hopes  and  aspirations  as  CEO  of  the  Cook  County  Health  & 
Hospitals System.  
 
When I was growing up I was always wanted to be outgoing and popular, but I could hardly do that. I tried 
very hard to be outgoing and I simply could not do it... then finally today I obtained the title outgoing‐I am 
the outgoing CEO of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. 
 
I don’t know whether it takes a village to raise a child but one thing I do know that It takes a large corporation 
to keep me out of trouble. The fact that I not only kept my job but also found a new job shows that you guys 
have worked very hard. 
 
When I came to Chicago, I knew that Cook County was one of the nation’s oldest public health systems.  
 
When I came to Chicago, I knew that this system had a noble mission and a storied history.  
 
When I came to Chicago, I knew the reputation of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System in the health 
care community, nationally and internationally, and particularly among doctors, was stellar.  
 
Page 6 of 56
 

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 7

VI.

 
Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
 
But  what  I  under‐appreciated  was  its  commitment  to  cause  of  social  justice...its  resiliency…its  deep‐rooted 
mission  to  serve  the  most  vulnerable  amongst  us…the  neediest  in  our  midst  and  the  people  who  are  left 
behind in our society. 
 
I hope, in fact, I am certain that you will continue to support our medical education mission. 
 
It is one of our major strengths. 
 
It is something we excel in. 
 
It  is  why  just  this  year,  we  had  nearly  fourteen  hundred  applications  for  just  17  Emergency  Medicine 
residency slots. Doctors want to train here.  
 
Medical Education is a critical, a core mission of this organization. The training is unlike anywhere else in the 
Country and perhaps the world.  
 
My hope is that you continue to thrive in training the next generation of physicians.  
 
What sets us apart from other health care systems is that we care and take our mission as self‐evident and 
non‐negotiable.  
 
I said and continue to maintain that we made abundantly clear that our mission is not for sale. 
 
We are most known for our mission to serve anyone who walks through the doors, regardless of their ability 
to pay.  
 
We provide more than $500 million annually in uncompensated care.  
 
Our  mission  is  truly  one  of  social  justice.  And  sometimes  that  is  where  the  rubber  hits  the  road  and  the 
debate begins about whether we need public systems.  
 
From  time  to  time,  editorial  writers  will  pose  the  question  or  elected  officials  looking  for  budget‐cutting 
measures will suggest reductions.  All public systems go through this, and they are valid conversations.  
 
But you, like I, believe that health care is a fundamental right….a civil right and human right. 
 
But we still have to show value to the external stakeholders…the value we bring in…that we are financially 
prudent and responsible. 
 
We need to show that the CCHHS transformation is well underway. 
 
We should continue to inspire people about what we do and continue to articulate our values. 
 
It is my hope that the new CEO will continue to carry that banner forward. 
 
Continue to articulate the value we bring. 
 
Page 7 of 56
 

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 8

VI.
 

 
Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
Never waver from the notion that we are a valued player in the health care discussions. 
 
When I came to the system, President Preckwinkle, the Cook County Board and the System Board charged 
me with balancing the mission to serve everyone with the need to address the finances – no small task when 
more  than  half  of  our  patients  at  the  time  were  uninsured  or  underinsured.  They  asked  that  I  implement 
some common sense business principles to get the financial house in order. To a large degree these charges – 
protecting the mission and financial stability ‐ were competing interests.  
 
I think we are on our way to achieving that.  
 
But the issues remain. 
 
The difference between being a public and private entity often gets in the way of vast improvements. Unlike 
a private company, we can’t raise prices, we won’t turn down customers and going back to the taxpayers for 
more money is just not an option. When decisions were made to hire more nurses or technicians to care for 
more patients, they were often done so at the expense of a new piece of cutting‐edge medical technology, 
paving a parking lot or a simple paint job in a clinic.  
 
Balancing the competing interests of our mission and our finances required us to think differently.  
 
My hope is that everyone who seeks to make an impact on the System takes the time to really understand 
the system. Its challenges are very different from private and non‐profit systems.  
 
Part of that difference is how we pay for the care we provide. To use industry terms, we don’t have the ideal 
payer  mix.  I  talked  about  the  competing  interests  of  protecting  the  mission  to  care  for  everyone  with  the 
need to be financially responsible.  
 
The Affordable Care Act has allowed us to do just that. The combination of common sense business principles 
combined with the influx of ACA revenue has truly turned us around financially. We have relied less and less 
on the County taxpayers for funding, but we are not naïve.  
 
Somewhere  the  word  ‘subsidy’  entered  our  vernacular.  The  County  taxpayers,  through  the  County  Board, 
provide  every  unit  of  County  government  with  a  budget,  yet  the  portion  of  funding  CCHHS  gets  is  called  a 
subsidy.  
 
The  word  subsidy  is  a  misnomer…it  implies  that  there  are  services  we  provide  where  the  revenues  don’t 
meet the expenses and the ‘subsidy’ fills in the gap. The reality is that there are services that we are charged 
with providing…a public health department for suburban Cook County, caring for the 10,000 detainees at the 
jail  and  those  at  the  Juvenile  Center,  and  let’s  not  forget  that  even  in  a  post‐ACA  world,  there  will  still  be 
those who have no coverage that will turn to Cook County.  
 
As long as the System is charged with providing these services, then they have to be paid for somehow.  
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 56
 

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 9

VI.
 

 
Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
My hope is that you will eliminate the word ‘subsidy’ from the budget discussion. We don’t call the money 
to  fund  the  jails  or  the  courts  or  the  highways  a  ‘subsidy’  and  we  shouldn’t  call  the  money  used  to  fund 
health care a subsidy.  
  
One of the main differences in private and public systems is the ability to invest. Health care was one of the 
last  industries  to  adopt  technology  and  allow  it  to  drive  the  business.  Doctors  were  concerned  that 
technology  didn’t  have  the  personal  touch,  that  it  couldn’t  replace  what  we  could  do  at  the  bedside. 
Technology is a critical component to every aspect of health care, from registering a patient to sending an x‐
ray  to  a  specialist  across  town  for  a  second  opinion.  And  while  I  am  immensely  proud  of  what  we  have 
accomplished here in terms of technology, the system has a long way to go.  
 
My hope is that you will support technology in principle, in practice and in the budget, as it will go a long 
way toward improving outcomes.  
 
Speaking directly to this Board, I want to say thank you. Thank you for your time, your leadership, your advice 
and your friendship. Accepting the role of a voluntary board in a public system is quite different than sitting 
on the board of a private entity. We don’t have fancy retreats, stock options or any real perks.  
 
Just donuts and coffee. 
 
The role of the board is fast changing.  
 
Competency‐based boards such as this board is the future.  
 
The constituency‐based boards will not serve us in the new health care paradigm. 
 
In the past, the board hired the subject matter expert as the CEO and the board held him or her responsible. 
The uncertain, uncharted post‐ACA health care horizon is very different.  
 
There is no tested play book...no perfect recipe …there is risk all around. 
 
I  hope  the  board  will  continue  to  partner  with  the  new  CEO  and  take  risks  with  him  or  her  as  we  muddle 
through the new health care maze.  
 
The future belongs to people who are not afraid to take risks.  
 
As we take risk, we may fail now and then.  In a system whose failures are magnified and accomplishments 
under‐played, the new CEO needs a partner and not just a supervising authority. 
 
My hope is that you will continue to provide that partnership...rise and fall with the CEO and the System. 
 
At the end of whatever is said and done, the success of the health system is measured through the patients’ 
eyes. 
 
My hope is that you will continue to instill this same ‘greater good’ mentality in future boards and always 
look at what’s best for the patient.   
 
Page 9 of 56
 

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 10

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
 
At the center of patient care are the employees.  All six thousand, seven hundred of them. These dedicated 
health  care  workers  are  also  committed  to  our  patients.  They  provide  great  health  care  under  enormous 
pressure  and  they  do  so  in  a  manner  that  would  make  you  proud…always  treating  our  patients  with 
compassion and respect.  
 
My hope is that you will continue the tradition of recognizing our employees and the great work they do at 
each of these meetings. It is a small but meaningful token of our appreciation for the care they provide to 
our patients. 
 
Lastly, I want to talk about the patients we serve, the hundreds of thousands of patients we serve.  
 
Last year 

more than 960,000 outpatient visits  

more than 380 ED visits every day or nearly 140,000 annually 

the busiest trauma center in Illinois and one of the busiest in the nation.  

we  filled  1.4  million  prescriptions  –  almost  4,000  per  day.  For  comparison  sake  –  we  fill  as  many 
prescriptions in one month as the average Walgreens does in one year.  
These numbers are staggering. But they are also reflective of the fact that people need health care and the 
uninsured largely turn to us to meet their needs. Many of our patients present to us after not having any care 
for years, even decades. They present with not one or two but often three or more chronic illnesses that, but 
for the fact that they have been largely left behind, could have been easily managed in a primary care setting.  
 
Instead  they  show  up  in  our  emergency  room  needing  an  amputation  because  their  diabetes  has  gone 
unmanaged for years.   
 
My hope is that we continue to understand that we are in the business of health care, not the health care 
business. 
 
It is patient care that matters most.  
 
My final hope is that we treat each individual that comes through our doors as an individual with their own 
story, their own needs and their own hopes and that we do everything we can to help them realize their 
hopes.  

 
It has been a great journey at Cook County… a journey which I never anticipated…a journey which left me a 
great sense of appreciation and awe for the wonderful people who toil day and night for the System and its 
patients. My goal was always to help them to make their jobs little easier...little more tolerable… little better 
than the day before. 
 
Only time will tell how far I succeeded in that aspiration…but I leave with a great sense of fulfillment that I 
tried to contribute a little to this wonderful organization…great sense of pride that the organization is in the 
forefront  of  greatness…wonderful  feeling  of  loving  this  organization  and  being  loved  back…all  these  have 
been a wonderful life experience. 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 56
 

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 11

VI.

 
Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
 
On a personal note, thank you for letting me into your facilities and your divisions and most important letting 
me into your heart and homes….thanks for all the kindness and tolerance  you have shown  me…the feeling I 
promise I will never forget. 
 
There are so many folks I need to thank…some of them are leaders and a lot of them are silent heroes.  You 
know who you are and I know who you are.  You also know how indebted I am to you. Thanks for your help 
and guidance.  
I am lucky to have chosen a profession which brought me so much joy and fulfillment in my life.  All the jobs I 
have had were fulfilling and rewarding but my present stop at CCHHS is the most inspirational.  
With that, this has truly been the greatest job of my professional career.  I want to thank this Board, the Cook 
County  Board  of  Commissioners,  particularly  President  Preckwinkle,  Chairman  Daley  and  Commissioner 
Butler, as well as my senior leadership team who operationalized this vision so perfectly.  I am proud of what 
we have accomplished. I am proud to have been part of this and I look forward to watching you continue to 
thrive in the coming years.  
When emotions run high and words fail you…you borrow from others. 
I  end  with  the  borrowed  quote  from  my  life  long  hero  President  Abraham  Lincoln,  son  of  Illinois  and  our 
greatest president.    
My friends, no one, not in my situation, can appreciate my feeling of sadness at this parting. To this place, 
and the kindness of these people, I owe everything. I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever, I may 
return, but I am not crying that it is over but smiling that it did happen.  
Wish you all best of luck. You will always be in my heart and in my prayers. 

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
D. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 12, 2014
E. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, March 21, 2014
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body
to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters
between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations
concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,”5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body
Page 11 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 12

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public
body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding
shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12),
regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local
Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the
disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of
claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or communications from
or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk management
association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of
physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing
medical care, that is operated by the public body,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29), regarding
“meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees,
finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control
weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and
fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the
United States of America.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Muñoz, Velasquez and Wiese (10)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Morris (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into regular session.
Chairman Carvalho, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to approve a bonus payment
to be made to Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, in the amount of $50,000.00, in
accordance with the previously agreed upon terms of his employment. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared that the meeting was ADJOURNED.

Page 12 of 56

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, March 28, 2014
Page 13

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 13 of 56

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 14 of 56

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

Sponsored by
DAVID CARVALHO, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,
THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, LEWIS M. COLLENS, ADA MARY GUGENHEIM, M.
HILL HAMMOCK, WAYNE M. LERNER, DPH, FACHE, REV. CALVIN S. MORRIS, PhD,
LUIS MUNOZ, MD, CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, EdD, DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, Dr. Raju joined the Cook County Health & Hospitals System(CCHHS) as the Chief
Executive Officer on October 2, 2011; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju was recruited to transform CCHHS into a patient-centered, financially stable
organization in a post-Affordable Care Act World; and
WHEREAS, in his first two years with the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Dr. Raju was
instrumental in turning around the financial status of the system and placing it on a more sustainable path; andWHEREAS, under Dr. Raju’s leadership, CCHHS received a meaningful use designation for the
advancement in information technology, specifically the electronic medical record; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju’s business acumen led to significant improvements in supply chain and contract
management and the staffing of a performance improvement department, initiatives that will yield
continued savings for taxpayers in the years to come; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju’s commitment to the patient experience is reflected by the improved Hospital
Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers (HCAPHs) scores and in the reduction of wait times in the
Emergency Department to less than two hours; and
WHEREAS, the clinical improvements Dr. Raju implemented led to Joint Commission accreditation for
Stroger and Provident Hospitals as well as the Ambulatory clinic network; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju’s vision initiated the effort that would become CountyCare, an Illinois Medicaid
program to provide health care coverage to low-income adults in Cook County in advance of the
implementation of the ACA; and
WHEREAS, his recognition that patient are more likely to use care they can access near their home
resulted in the development a network of more than 130 primary care access points by partnering with
FQHCs, safety-net and community hospitals, academic medical centers and private doctors; and
WHEREAS, between February, 2013 and today, more than 140,000 applications for CountyCare have
been initiated, signifying both Dr. Raju’s focus on ensuring access to coordinated primary and specialty
care and the pent-up demand for health care in the community; and

Page 15 of 56

 WHEREAS, as a result of the success of CountyCare, more than 82,000 Cook County residents have
coverage today that did not just a year ago; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju has set in motion efforts to turn CountyCare, a demonstration project that ends on
June 30, 2014, into a Managed Care Community Network, an Illinois designation that would allow
current CountyCare members a seamless transition from the demonstration project to a permanent plan
with the ability to remain with their current network of providers; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju has assembled a talented team of health care professionals who remain focused on
patient safety and quality of care, the patient experience, adequate staffing and technology to drive both
patient care and strategic decisions; and
WHEREAS, in two and one half years, Dr. Raju has garnered extensive support from both the CCHHS
Board of Directors and the Cook County Board of Commissioners and is a nationally recognized leader in
the arena of health care reform and public health; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju will return to New York to be closer to his family, particularly his wife, mother
and two children; and
WHEREAS, in New York, Dr. Raju will continue his commitment to public health by serving as the
President & CEO of the New York Health & Hospitals Corporation; and
WHERAS, Dr. Raju’s vision to ensure the future viability of the nation’s third largest public health
system, a system with a rich history and noble mission has come to fruition; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Raju will be greatly missed by all who had the opportunity to work with him; and
WHEREAS, the residents of Cook County owe him a debt of gratitude for his efforts to improve and
increase access to care.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge Dr. Ram Raju for his extraordinary
abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation of the Health
System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook County.
 

Page 16 of 56

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 17 of 56

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(B) 
MARCH 28, 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Begins 
Fiscal impact not to  Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#
exceed:

Service or Product

Authorization to Negotiate and Execute Contract

1

IlliniCare Health Plan, Inc.

Third
Party
Administrator,
Managed Care, Clinical Services

Managed 
$1,795,970,071.00  Care

2

Managed 
Care

4

Managed 
$50,000,000.00  Care

5

Increase Contracts

2

3

Automated Health Systems Service ‐ Third Party Administrator

Catamaran

Service ‐ Pharmacy
Management Services

Benefit

$60,000,000.00 

Extend and Increase Contracts
4
5

PsycHealth, Ltd.
MHNU Corporation d/b/a 
Medical Home Network

Service
‐
Behavior
Health
Management
Service ‐ Care Management
Analytics for CountyCare

Page 18 of 56

Managed 
$7,500,000.00  Care
Managed 
$3,183,740.00  Care

6
7

  

Cook County Health Hospitals System

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST 

 
   
 

 
  
 
 

 
  
 

 

 
  

    
  

 

      
    
    
 

 

 

   
  

 

  
 

 

    
 

 

     
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SPONSOR: EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:
NA Steven Glass, Executive Director, Ma
DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:
03/28/2014 Third Party Administrator, Managed Care, Clinical Services
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Authorization to negotiate and Health Plan, Inc, Westmont, IL
execute contract
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT FUNDED AMOUNT:
See New Proposal Justification below 
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
60 months from Contract Effective Date H14-25-018
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
See Selection Process below
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:

 
    
  

There is no prior contract history for this vendor.

  
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
CountyCare is a demonstration project that began operations in late 2012 to early enroll newly eligible adults into
Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and is integral to the transformation of the Cook County Health 
Hospitals System With the temporary demonstration project set to expire on June 30, 2014, will
transition CountyCare to an Illinois managed care entity.

 
   
 
     
     

Under this proposed contract, Health Plan, Inc. will provide managed care expertise and
services as well as business support for the operations of CountyCare. The funds to pay for this contract and the

services provided to CountyCare members originate from the Federal government under the Affordable Care Act
(ACA).

 
 
     
 

Also under this proposed contract, will be obligated to satisfy
Managed Care Community Network (MCCN) agreement between Coo
Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS). Wiff 2 a 2.531%

 
  

        
   
   
 

    
  

  

oved
claims on

It is significant to note that an estimated 66% of the not-to-exceed amount is solegyigommts for ap 
care, services and pharmaceuticals provided to CountyCare members. ?151me WEEK WEE
CountyCare?s behalf. will not retain any portion of these fun PITALS TEM 

   

 

     

 
 

The proposed contract consolidates and transitions three existing contracts for: claims processing and payment,
provider and member services; behavioral health benefits management services; and, pharmacy benefits
management services into one. Additionally, on January 1, 2014, added optometry benefits for Medicaid
recipients. Accordingly, the contract now includes optometry benefits management services.

 
       
 

Services to be provided through this contract for CountyCare members are: Rem?? 

    
 

3. Administrative Services. will serve as the Third Party Administrator (TPA) providing the day-to-day
administrative operations of CountyCare. These include, but are not limited to: claims adjudication,

     

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 19 of 56

Revised 03/01/2011

 

  
 

processing and payment; financial reporting and support; provider and member services; provider and
member hotline; and CountyCare web site hosting and maintenance. These and similar administrative
functions total 11. 8% or an estimated $212,744,000 over the five- -year contract term. These costs are
calculated on a per member per month (PMPM) basis assuming 115, 000 members. Actual costs will vary
based on membership.

    
     
    
  

b. Managed Care Services and Support. Serving as CountyCare?s TPA, will also provide managed care
services including, but not limited to, care coordination and case management; nurse hotline; quality
assurance; and utilization management. These and similar managed care functions total 14.4% or an
estimated $257,646,000 over the five-year contract term. These costs are calculated on a PMPM basis
assuming 115,000 members. Actual costs will vary based on membership.

 
   
       
 

c. subcontracted benefits management services: will subcontract for benefits
management services for pharmacy, behavioral health and optometry through the existing subsidiaries?
networks of parent company, Centene Corp. The at-risk subcontracted services for behavioral
health and optometry benefits management total 7.2% or an estimated $129,168,000 over the five-year
contract term. Costs for at-risk behavioral health and optometry benefits management services are fixed on
a PM PM basis. These costs are calculated on a PMPM basis assuming 115,000 members. Actual costs will
vary based on membership. The estimated expenditures for pharmaceuticals and related supplies
are included in the description for below.

 
 
      
   
   
   
 
  

d. Payments to CountyCare network providers and approved out-of?network providers: will
transmit payments owed by CountyCare to network providers, including contracted Federally Qualified
Health Centers participating hospitals, ancillary providers, pharmacies, as well as to approved out-
of?network providers. These costs represent 66.6% or an estimated $1,195,850,842 over the five-year
contract term. These costs will vary depending on CountyCare member utilization.

 
       
   
 

Selection Process: On September 30, 2013, issued a Request for Proposals (RFP to support the
transition from the temporary waiver program to a managed care organization. The RFP specifically requested
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) services, including, but not limited to: enrollment follow?up and member
services, provider relation services, medical management services, care coordination and care management, quality
assurance, member and provider surveys, claims review and payment services, financial analysis and services
including actuarial, information technology systems and reporting and a behavioral health provider network. The
RFP also required the ability to lease the license for various populations. After the RFP was issued, the State
of illinois added optometry as a required benefit for Medicaid recipients. In addition, during negotiations, 
determined that adding pharmacy benefits to this contract further achieves the goals of the RFP.

 
 
      
   
   
 
     
     
 

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to execute contract number in an amount not to exceed $1,795,970,071.00 for a

period of sixty (60) months Contract Effective Date.

 
     
   
 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Pending

CFO \f-A ?1 (5ka i [xtc 
John Cookinham, Grief? Financial Officer

ceo: .. tax/z; 
Ram Raju, MD. Chief Executive Officer

 
   
     
 

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health 
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital 0 Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 20 of 56

Revised 03/01/2011

 

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:

             
 

SPONSOR: I

      
 

 

   
      
 

 

   
  

 

 

 
  
    
 
 

Steven Glass, Executive Direct at? ed are
DATE: PRODUCT SERVICE: 

02/27/2014 Service Third Party Administrator

TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR SUPPLIER:

Increase Contract Automated Health System, Schaumburg, IL

ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD I RENEWAL AMOUNT:

896-260 $60,000,00000 

    
 

 

   

CONTRACT PERIOD: 1 CONTRACT NUMBER:

 

       
 

 

     

 

 

12/01/2012 thru 06/30/2014 111225-091
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

RFP

NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:



 

 

 
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Cook County Health Hospitals System Board on 11/29/2012 approved contract number 
for Automated Health Systems (AHS) to provide administrative and support services as a Third Party Administrator
for CountyCare. Their services to include the operation of a call center, contract management, claims
review and payment. An amendment to increase the contract amount was approved by the Board on
12/14/2012 to permit the payment of foreign claims and execute the transfer of cIaims payments to outside providers.
The Board approved an amendment on 11/22/2013 to pay for additional deliverables for Third Party Administrative
services and funding for claims payments. The contract was extended and increased on 12/13/2013 for Third Party
Administrative services and claims payments.

 
   
   
   
    
 
        
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
CountyCare, as an 1115 waiver demonstration project, ends 06/30/2014. During the second quarter of 2014 County
Care will transition to a Managed Care Community Network (MCCN). This amendment is for funding to allow
Automated Health System (AHS) to process Claims payments. There are no additional administrative expenses in
this request. This will bring the total contract spend to $186,290,61200.

   
 
      
  
 
 

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to increase contract number in an amount not to exceed $60,000,00000, as needed

for Claims payment, from 04/01/2014 thru 06/30/2014.

 
      
 
 

   

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT 

CEO: I mid/?J1 Wk
Anthony Rajkum?arrc?ief Business g?icer

 
  

 
 

11131131 2 825331

 
 
  

 

 

 

 
 

 

    
 

. .. .. av BOARD OF
CFO Qb?ii gala" DIRECTORS or THE COOK COUNTY
John CookInham, Chijf FInanCIal Officer HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
,2 I)
CEO: 13/23.; 
Ram Raju, MD, Chief Exedbtive Officer
Request 
2

 
   
 

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health 
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

d03/01/2011
Page 21 of 56 ev'se

 

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

SPONSOR: EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:

Steven Glass, Executive Dire
DATE: PRODUCT SERVICE:

03/04/2014 Service Pharmacy Benefit Management Services

 

 

TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Increase Contract Catamaran, Lisle IL
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
896?260 $50,000,00000 
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
02/01/2013 thru 06/30/2014 H13-25-017
SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
RF
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:

The Cook County Health Hospitals System Board approved contract number H13-25-017 to allow
Catamaran to provide pharmacy benefit management services for CountyCare, including prior authorization of
pharmaceuticals, access to network pharmacies and adjudication and payment of claims. The contract was
increased on 05/14/2013 to fund claims payment to outside vendors. An additional amendment to increase this
contract was approved by the Board on 11/22/2013 to provide additional funding for administrative costs and
claims payment to outside vendors. On 12/13/2013, the Board approved the latest amendment to extend
the contract through 06/30/2014 and increase the contract amount.

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:

CountyCare, as an 1115 waiver demonstration project, ends 06/30/2014. During the second quarter of 2014,
CountyCare will transition to a Managed Care Community Network (MCCN). This amendment is for funding to allow
Catamaran to process claims payments. There are no additional administrative expenses in this request. This
contract increase wit! bring the total contract spend to $108,810,68950.

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to increase contract number in an amount not to exceed $50,000,00000 as needed for

claims payment, from 04/01/2014 thru 06/30/2014.
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: 

CBO: Clmilw/?q f??w

Anthony Rajkumar, Chief?usinessjomc?lr

CFO: {Sea/in [:53 COUNTY
John Financial Officer HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

. 
CEO: f/C - . 
Ram Raju, MD, Chief Executive Officer

 

Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

Page 22 of 56

Revised 03/01/201 1

 

 

Cook County Health 8. Hospitals System

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

  
 
 
 

    
  
 

    
  

 
   

SPONSOR: EXECUTIVE ?nw' If]
I f, 4. Iv
Steven Glass, Executive Director Of Ma A are

 
  

 

 
 
   
    
 

 

  
    

 

 

 

  

DATE: 
03/10/2014 Service - Behavioral Health Management

TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:

Extend increase Contract Ltd., Evanston iL

ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
896~360 $7,500,000.00 

 

    
 

CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:

 

      

 

   

 

 

12/15/2012 thru 06/30/2014 H13?25m006
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
RFP
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: 


 

 
 
 
 

 

  
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board approved this contract on 12/14/2012 for the services of a
behavioral health management organization to provide and manage a network Of behavioral health providers for the
CountyCare demonstration project being implemented under the Section 1115 Waiver. responded
to an RFP and is experienced in providing managed behavioral health services to Medicaid recipients. Under a risk,
capitation agreement, the contractor handles member and provider relations, claims, quality improvements,
credentialing, behavioral health provider contracting and other required functions. On 12/13/2013, the Board
approved a request to extend the contract term through 04/30/2014.

 
 
    
    
 
 
      
 
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
CountyCare, as an 1115 waiver demonstration project, ends 6/30/2014. During the quarter Of2014, CountyCare
will transition to a Managed Care Community Network (MCCN). This amendment is specifically to allow for
through administrative services only (A80), to provide medical management, care coordination and
claims payment through 06/30/2014. This contract extension will provide additional funding necessary to cover the
scope Of this work. This will increase the total contract spend to $18,820,449.00

 
      
     
 
   
 

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request tO extend and increase contract number in an amount not to exceed $7,500,000.00, as
needed, administrative services and $5,100,000.00 claims payment) from 04/01/2014 thru

06/30/2014.

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Ye 5 APPROVED
CBO: ?nk/Um? 2 a 5.0.5.

Anthony Rajkumar, ChT?f/Businesj?s Offic?r

     
   
      
 

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

   

COUNTY
9 DIRECTO 
.01 ring/41 HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
John Cookinharn, Chief Financial Officer
r1 
CEO: Request 
Ram Raju, MD, Chief Bag?utive Officer 4

 
 
 
 

Ambulatory Community Health Network Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
0 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center 

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 23 Of 56

Revised 03/01/2011

 

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

 
 
 

    
 
 

    
 

SPONSOR:

 
 

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: 

 

 

     

Steven Glass, Executive Director? r- -q -o?are
DATE: 1
03/10/2014 Service Care Management Analytics for County Care

   

 

 

VENDOR I SUPPLIER:

 

TYPE OF REQUEST:
Extend Increase Contract

MHNU Corporation dba Medical Home Network, Waukesha, WI

 

 

     
    

 

 
 

 

ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD RENEWAL AMOUNT:
896-260 $3,183,740.00 

CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:

01/01/2013 thru 06/30/2014 H13-25-005

 

 

   
  

 

COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

 

 

NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
Sole Source

 

 

 
  
  

 


PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board approved the Medical Home Network (MHN) contract on
12/14/2012 for project management and oversight as well as portal connectivity, management and maintenance.
MHN has delivered advance care management analytics to support proactive care management for CountyCare?s
high risk population. On 12/13/2013, the Board approved a no cost extension of the contract through
06/30/2014.

 

 
   
        
     
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:

CountyCare, as an 1115 waiver demonstration project, ends 6/30/2014. During the second quarter of 2014
CountyCare wiil transition to a Managed Care Community Network (MCCN). This amendment is specifically for
funding to allow services for the Managed Care Coordinated Network (MCCN). Medical Home Network has agreed
to provide analytic services and MHNConnect Portal access through 11/30/2015. This will increase the total contract
spend to $6,131,500.00.

  
          
   

 
 
   

 
  
 

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to extend and increase contract number H13-25-005 in an amount not to exceed $3,183,740.00, as
needed, for administrative services from 04/01/2014 thru 11/30/2015.

   
 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Yes

mi; um. APPROVED

Anthon usine'sO i er W,
I l?li?iri i: Enum-

 
       
   

 

 
 

 

 

 

CFO: I I XL 411/ COUNTY
John Cookmharq/fhlef FinanCIai Officer HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 
 

j} ,7 
CEO: are fats.-.
Ram Raju, MD, Chief EXecutive Officer

  
  

Request 
5

 
 
 

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital ofCook County 0 Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 24 of 56

Revised 03/01/2011

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 25 of 56

 CountyCare
C
t C
Overview
O
i
&
Infrastructure Transition

Prepared for: CCHHS Board of Directors, 3/28/2014
Steven Glass, Executive Director of Managed Care
312.864.1147   sglass@cookcountyhhs.org
Page 26 of 56

 Today
•
•
•
•
•

CountyCare
Financial Impact @ CCHHS
Infrastructure & Benefits Management
g
Contract Expense Overview
Summary

2

Page 27 of 56

  

CountyCare

 



Page 28 of 56

CountyCare Scope
•

Key part of CCHHS’ “4Ps”
1.
2.
3.
4.

•
•

Provider
Plan
Payer
Population Management

Health insurance for approved members
Access to Medicaid‐approved
Access to Medicaid
approved benefits through 
benefits through
geographically accessible network
4

Page 29 of 56

 CountyCare Scope
•

Vision: One Plan, Multiple Products allowing 
members to stay with provider and plan
members to stay with provider and plan
– Medicaid: Affordable Care Act (ACA) Adults, Family 
,
Health Plans, Seniors & Persons with Disabilities 
(SPDs)
– Private: Marketplace, Individuals, Small Businesses

•
•

No jobs lost or supplanted within CCHHS when 
CountyCare was implemented
C
CountyCare requires
t C
i partnering with non‐CCHHS 
t i
ith
CCHHS
providers to meet members needs across a broad 
geography
5

Page 30 of 56

 CountyCare
•

CMS 1115 Waiver Given to 
IL Medicaid
– Early
Early access to Medicaid 
access to Medicaid
health insurance for ACA‐
eligible persons
– Letter dated 10/26/2012; 
Operational 2/1/2013; Two 
extensions until 6/30/2014

•

Safety‐net Primary Care 
Provider Network 
id
k
– CCHHS & Federally Qualified 
Health Centers (FQHCs) 
primary care network (138
primary care network (138 
sites)
– 38 Hospitals; 6 Academic 
Medical Centers
Medical Centers
– Dozens of Ancillary providers
6

Page 31 of 56

 CountyCare Today
•

Applications (data as of 3/25/2014)
– 147,349 applications initiated
147 349
li i
i ii d
– 118,851 applications submitted
– 87,325 applications approved
87 325
li ti
d

•

Payment Processing
(data as of 2/28/2014; excludes pharmacy and behavioral health)
(data as of 2/28/2014; excludes pharmacy and behavioral health)

– 567,784 claims processed
 266,543 (47%) from CCHHS
,
(
)

– $43,935,711 actual payments made to non‐CCHHS 
providers on claims for members to date
7

Page 32 of 56

 Next Phase of CountyCare
•

In order for CountyCare to continue, we must 
establish ourselves as a County Managed Care 
Community Network (MCCN)
– Under contract to State of Illinois, Department of 
Healthcare and Family Services (HFS)
– Definitively establishes one of the “Ps” = Plan
– More requirements than Waiver
– Requires more infrastructure than Waiver

8

Page 33 of 56

 Phases of CountyCare
1115 Waiver
Demonstration
Project

- Until 6/30/2014
- IL Medicaid Program
operated by CCHHS
- Governed by CMS
Waiver granted to
State of Illinois

Medicaid
MCCN Plan

- Beginning 7/1/2014
- IL Medicaid Health
Plan operated by
CCHHS
- Governed by MCCN
Contract with State of
Illinois
- ACA Adults & Other
Medicaid Populations

“Mature”
Managed Care
Health Plan

- 2015 and beyond
- Multiple products in
Medicaid
- ACA Health Insurance
Exchange, and/or
other Commercial
Products
- Health Insurance
Exchange consistent
with continuum of
coverage
9

Page 34 of 56

  

CountyCare
Financial Impact


 



Page 35 of 56

PMPM Risk Scenarios
CCHHS assumes full‐risk for payment of managed care 
services provided to CountyCare members.
services provided to CountyCare members.
If aggregate PMPM spending
> $632.48

If aggregate PMPM spending
< $632.48

• Amount allocated to previously
unfunded CCHHS-provider
services is not maximized.

• Amount allocated to previously
unfunded CCHHS-provider
services is maximized.

In either case, CCHHS is now receiving compensation for care provided to 
C
CountyCare members who we previously treated without reimbursement.
C
b
h
i l
d ih
i b
Consistent with our mission, we are also expanding access to care 
through our network partners significantly beyond that which CCHHS 
could have provided alone.
11

Page 36 of 56

 Determining Financial Risk
•

“Trifecta” of reasons why Incurred But Not 
Recorded (IBNR) difficult to calculate:
(
) ff
1) Delays in getting applications processed 
(members not yet known)
2) Rapid month‐to‐month growth in membership 
(
(unstable utilization; 5,000 added in March 
bl
ili i
5 000 dd d i M h
alone)
3) 12 Months to file claim for payment
12 M th t fil l i f
t

•

Aggressively working to develop IBNR
12

Page 37 of 56

 CountyCare Members C.

countyca re

 

 


Patients by Payer
. CountyCare Members 8: Patient
Ex.? 
If New Uninsured Adult
f! Patients
I: Patients .
.
- 
. Medicaid r!
Medicaid FHP I
SPD Patients Patients f\
.. (future) - (future) 
-- Patients 
CountyCa re Members

 

 

 

 

Page 38 of 56

CountyCare Payer Mix Impact (C,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

countycare
IP, OP 8: Combined Payer Mix (Based Upon Charges)
Assumes 30% of Accounts Accepted by Vendor Successfuiiy Converted to Medicaid
100% 
90% 
80% 
70% 
Co nty Care
0 Uncompensated Care
/0 Of .
M. Ccmmercual
ayer IX CountyCare
40% Medlcald {Incl MANG)
Medicare
30%
20%
10% 
14

 

 

 

 

{unaudited} ch'13

   

Page 39 of 56

 

CountyCare Infrastructure
Benefits Management

 



Page 40 of 56

Current State

for dates of services prior to 6/1/2014
• Clinical Care Coordination, Utilization &
Disease Management
• Claims Processing & Payment
• Member & Provider Services
• Call Center & Outreach
• At-Risk Behavioral Health & Substance
Abuse Benefits Management

Connectiv
vity
& Analytiics

PBM

TPA

Function(s)

Behavioral
Health
Network

Vendor

• Pharmacy Benefits Management, Including
Claims Processing & Payment
• Real-time ED and Inpatient
p
Discharge
g
Notification
• Health Plan Analytics

16

Page 41 of 56

 Proposed State

for dates of services beginning 6/1/2014
Vendor

Function(s)

TPA
A

•

Optometry

PBM

Behavior
al H
Health
Network

•
•

Connectivity
y&
Analytics
s
Care
e
Coordina
ation

•

At-Risk Behavioral Health & Substance Abuse
Treatment Services

•

Pharmacy Benefits Management, Including
Claims Processing & Payment

•

Optometry is a new Medicaid benefit as of
1/1/2014.
At-risk services/network provided by TPA.

•
•
•
Anticipated
MHN ACO

Clinical Care Coordination, Utilization & Disease
Management
Claims Processing & Payment
Member & Provider Services

•
•

Real time ED and Inpatient Discharge
Real-time
Notification
Health Plan Analytics
LOI Framework for future contract
Builds upon MHN partnership to integrate care
coordination in provider practices.
17

Page 42 of 56

 “MHN ACO” Letter Of Intent
•
•
•
•

Provided for informational purposes only.
CCHHS and MHN have established a Letter of 
Intent (LOI) establishing the principles and 
framework for a future contract.
Principles establish structural relationship 
p
p
between organizations and defines initial 
financial terms.
MHN providers have until 5/15/2014 to form 
new entity
new entity.
18

Page 43 of 56

 IlliniCare Health Plan
•

Wholly owned subsidiary 
of Centene Corporation 
(F
(Fortune 300 company)
300
)
– 2.4 million lives covered 
nationallyy
– Exclusively government‐
sponsored plans

•

Vertically integrated 
Vertically
integrated
service delivery and 
information management
– Capacity to leverage 
additional networks should 
p
benefits expand.
19

Page 44 of 56

 IlliniCare Contract Overview
•
•
•

Obligates IlliniCare to satisfy the requirements 
of the proposed County MCCN.
of the proposed County MCCN.
Provides managed care expertise and services 
as well as business support for the operations
as well as business support for the operations 
of CountyCare. 
P id
Provides pharmacy, behavioral health and 
h
b h i l h lth d
optometry benefits management services 
(th
(through subcontracts).
h b t t)

20

Page 45 of 56

 Other Key Contract Terms
•
•
•
•
•

MBE WBE Compliance (responsive)
3‐day Termination for Convenience 
Pass Site Readiness Review
2% performance withhold
Flexibly to accommodate adding Medicaid
Flexibly to accommodate adding Medicaid 
FHP and SPD populations

21

Page 46 of 56

 Contract Management Approach

•
•
•
•
•
•

Report Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as 
appropriate to the CCHHS Board and Finance
appropriate to the CCHHS Board, and Finance, 
Quality and Patient Safety, and Audit Committees
Joint working committees with CCHHS oversight
Joint working committees with CCHHS oversight
Monitor & manage implementation plan targets
R i
Review monthly claims histories
thl l i hi t i
Review monthly utilization reports in all 
categories
t
i
Conduct weekly operations meetings
22

Page 47 of 56

  

IlliniCare Contract
Expense Overview

 



Page 48 of 56

Expenses by Category

All costs assume 115,000 member lives

countyca re

 

 

 

88.2% Clinical 11.8% Administrative

 

 

 

 

IlliniCare Admin
Expense
711.8%

KEY:
Clinical 
Blue Administrative 

 

 

     
  
  
  

 

Managed
Care Services
[care coordination,
UM, CM, GA, etc.)
I 14.4%

   
    
  

Payment
Pass-Through

 

At-Risk Payments to
Sub-
Contractors for

Benefits Management

Payments to Network
Services (BH,

Providers For Care,

Supplies and optometry}
Pharmaceuticals 7.2%
66.6%

 

   

Page 49 of 56

 

 

Admin & Managed Care Services
•
•
•
•
•
•

Administrative Services
Claims adjudication
Processing and payment 
Financial reporting & support
Provider and member services
P id
Provider and member hotline
d
b h li
http://www.countycare.com web 
site hosting and maintenance as 
q
y
required by MCCN.

•
•
•
•

These and similar 
administrative
d i i
i services total 
i
l
11.8% of the total not‐to‐
exceed contract amount.

Managed Care Services 
Care coordination and case 
management
Nurse hotline
Quality assurance
Utilization management
Utilization management

These and similar managed 
g
care functions total 14.4% 
of the total not‐to‐exceed 
contract amount.

25

Page 50 of 56

 Benefits Management Services
At‐Risk Behavioral Health 
Benefits Management  
((Cenpatico)
p
)
• Contracted network of 
behavioral health 
providers to whom 
CountyCare members 
can be referred for 
treatment.  
• These costs represent 
Th
5.8% of the total not‐to‐
exceed amount.

•
•

•

At‐Risk Optical Benefits 
Management 
(OptiCare)
Optometry added as 
new Illinois Medicaid 
1/1/2014
Contracted network of 
optical providers to 
whom CountyCare 
members can be 
referred for treatment.
These costs represent 
1 4% of the total not‐to‐
1.4%
f h
l
exceed amount.

Combined, these at‐risk services total 
7.2% of the total not‐to‐exceed contract 
amount.
Page 51 of 56

•
•

•

Pharmacy Benefits 
Management
(US Scripts)
(US Scripts)
Contracted network of 
pharmacies, including 
p
CCHHS pharmacies
1.4% of the total not‐to‐
exceed contract amount 
will be paid as pharmacy 
administrative fees and 
included in 11.2% Admin 
Total.
C
Cost of pharmaceuticals 
f h
i l
are included in 66.6% of 
network provider costs.

26

 Care, Supplies & Pharmaceuticals
•
•
•
•

Claims Adjudication & Payments of all claims for care 
p
provided to members
Pass‐through payments to providers for approved care, 
supplies and pharmaceuticals provided to CountyCare 
members
Providers have 12 months to file claims. 
No cash exchanged between IlliniCare and CCHHS for 
services provided by CCHHS.
This function alone totals 66.6%
This
function alone totals 66 6%
(51.2% clinical services + 15.4% 
pharmaceuticals) of the not‐to‐exceed 
contract amount.
t t
t
27

Page 52 of 56

 Key Pricing Factors
•
•
•
•

Pricing comparable to existing vendors, CCHHS 
budget and HFS expectations.
budget and HFS expectations.
IlliniCare & subcontractor payments are both 
ed (pe catego y) a d a ab e (based o
fixed (per category) and variable (based on 
membership)
Pass‐through payments to providers of care 
g p y
p
are 100% variable based on member 
utilization (66.6% of total contract cost)
No guarantee of cost except for at‐risk 
subcontracts
28

Page 53 of 56

  

Summary

 



Page 54 of 56

Summary
•
•

CountyCare (“Plan”) is a key component of 
“ ”
“4Ps” vision
CountyCare is transition from a demonstration 
project to Medicaid managed care health plan 
7/1/2014
– More requirements = Need for more 
infrastructure

•

PMPM risk limited to extent external 
p y
payments exceed premium
p
30

Page 55 of 56

 Summary
•
•
•

CCHHS and MHN ACO Letter of Intent provides 
framework for future partnership
framework for future partnership
Current vendor requests for extensions and 
increases needed for continuity of services
increases needed for continuity of services 
through transition
Seeking authority to negotiate & execute
Seeking authority to negotiate & execute 
contract with IlliniCare
– 88.2% clinical/11.8% administrative
88 2% clinical/11 8% administrative
– 66.6% is pass‐through for care, supplies and 
p
pharmaceuticals
31

Page 56 of 56

 