HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
\

November 9, 2012
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will
meet on Friday, November 16, 2012 at the hour of 9:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:30/Chairman Golden

II.

Public Speakers

9:30-9:40

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department

9:40-10:00

A. Report from Interim Director of Human Resources
i.
Expedited hiring process

Gladys Lopez

   

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, September 21, 2012 10:00-10:05/Chairman Golden
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements and Labor-related Matters
i.

RWDSU Local 200 (Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians) –
Collective Bargaining Agreement

ii.

Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 270) (Stroger Hospital
Sergeants) – Collective Bargaining Agreement

10:05-10:10/Maureen O’Donnell

iii. Laborers Local 2 and Carpenters Local 13 - Prevailing Rates and
Salary Adjustments
iv.

Illinois Licensed Practical Nurses Association (Licensed Practical
Nurses) – Salary Schedule and Wage Adjustments

C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
**Report from System Human Resources Department
**Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements and Labor-related Matters
(see Item IV(B))

10:10-10:20

 AGENDA
Friday, November 16, 2012 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Session Items (continued)
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Golden
Members:
Board Chairman Carvalho (Ex-Officio) and Directors Butler, Morris, Ramirez and Wiese

 