Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Monday, September 23, 2013 at the hour of 11:00 A.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Collens called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Lewis M. Collens and Directors Wayne M. Lerner and Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (3)
Director Ada Mary Gugenheim

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Randolph Johnston –System Associate General
Counsel
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

II.

John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration
Ozuru Ukoha, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Pierre Wakim, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County

Public Speakers
Chairman Collens asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following public speakers:
1.
2.

Ursula Mlynarek
George Blakemore

Representative, SEIU Local 73 (report also presented – Attachment #1)
Concerned Citizen

Following the presentation of testimony and a report containing a survey of SEIU Local 73 members regarding
outpatient clinic patient satisfaction by Ms. Mlynarek, Director Lerner asked how many total members of SEIU
Local 73 are located in the outpatient clinics, and how many responses to the survey were received. Ms.
Mlynarek responded that she can provide this information to the Board Secretary, who can then forward it to the
Committee Members1.

III.

Report from System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
A. Committee Education – Approach to Adverse Events: CCHHS 2013 (Attachment #2)
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration, provided an overview of the information presented
regarding Adverse Events. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Following the Committee’s discussion of the information, Dr. Shannon noted that he plans to present
information next month regarding the results for the Culture of Safety Survey that was performed across the
System.

Page 1 of 67

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Monday, September 23, 2013
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, August 14, 2013
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 14, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #3)
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Lerner, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Reappointments/Changes. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Dr. Pierre Wakim, President of the Executive Medical Staff (EMS) of Provident Hospital of Cook County,
presented his report. He stated the regular credentialing and EMS meetings were recently held. As a
follow-up from last month, the Bylaws that were approved by this Committee, which excluded the section
regarding absentee voting, were presented and ratified.
Dr. Ozuru Ukoha, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented his
report. He stated that EMS met a couple of weeks ago. A report from nursing was discussed; he indicated
that the shortage of manpower in nursing is quite acute and is testing a lot of resolve and patience of the
people who are not only involved in it, but also who are trying to solve it. He wanted to bring this to the
Committee’s attention, as it is an issue that is extremely important; he noted that he was sure that efforts are
being redoubled to address the problem.
With regard to the Stroger Hospital Medical Staff Bylaws, Dr. Ukoha stated that a few things were tweaked;
however, he indicated that there will be some major changes coming. Dr. Ukoha indicated that he has
received comments from his fellow medical staff members regarding a County shutdown day that is planned
for the day after Thanksgiving. With regard to the Trauma Department and Burn Unit, Dr. Ukoha stated that
they are in line next month for reaccreditation from the American Burn Association. Additionally, they also
will be looking to the American College of Surgeons to essentially approve the work that is being done by
the Burn Unit; this would be a recognition, rather than an accreditation.

VI.

Closed Session Items
A. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
The Committee did not recess the regular session and convene in closed session.

Page 2 of 67

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Monday, September 23, 2013
Page 3

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Collens declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Lewis M. Collens, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: Request for information on how many total members of SEIU Local 73 are located in the outpatient
clinics, and how many responses to the survey (Attachment #1) were received. Page 1.

Page 3 of 67

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
September 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 67

 Front Line Health Care Worker
SEIU Member Survey On:

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Outpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Prepared by the SEIU Local 73 Research Department

On behalf of the membership of SEIU Local 73

Page 5 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Table of Contents
Summary page 3
Introduction page 4
Methods page 5
Results page 6
Conclusion page 7
Figure 1: What patients like about the new services page 8
Figure 2: Positive aspects of the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) model page 9
Figure 3: Improvement suggestions page 10
Figure 4: Training needs and suggestions page 11
Figure 5: How ACHN SEIU members and their colleagues can make the PCMH model a success pagelZ
Figure 6: How SEIU members feel management prepared them to work in the PCMH model page 13

Figure 7: What SEIU members think about whether the PCMH model has allowed them to see patients in a
timely manner page 13

Figure 8: How working in the PCMH model has or has not improved SEIU members?ability to provide better
patient service and care page 14

Figure 9: What SEIU members feel about how whether the PCMH model delivers quality care to patients by
seeing the same team of providers page 14

Figure 10: SEIU members? opinion on whether the PCMH model has given health care workers the time to
provide critical information to patients page 15

Figure 11: How the PCMH model has or has not improved SEIU members? ability to schedule follow up

appointments for patients page 15
Figure 12: How the PCMH model has improved SEIU members? ability to work as a team page 16
Figure 13: How SEIU members perceive patient satisfaction at their PCMH page 16
Table 1: Categorical reference codes page 17
Blank survey page 18
2

Page 6 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Summary

A maioritv of SEIU Local 73 members at Cook County Health and Hospitals System?s 
Ambulatory Community Health Network (ACHN) outpatient clinics have completed surveys and
engaged in union meetings to discuss workplace solutions to improve patients? satisfaction.

SEIU members feel the new Patient?Centered Medical Home Model has improved interactions and
communicationbetween front?line providers, their patients, and other caregivers.

The greatest barriers to patient satisfaction is long wait times and scheduling patient appointments.

Training on the new outpatient model has been uneven. Asimilar number of SEIU members feel they
were not trained at all as those who feel they were trained adequately.

SEIU members who work at outpatient clinics feel that what their union, their co-workers and each other
can do to improve the patient experience is to work together to identify challenges and solutions.

We are stronger together. SEIU will continue to engage with our members and management to identify
concerns and propose solutions to improve patients? experience at Cook County Health and Hospitals
System and to support the mission of to provide quality services with dignity and respect,
regardless of a patients? ability to pay.

 

Page 7 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Introduction

2014 will usher in many exciting changes to the ways our Cook County communities can access
healthcare. The Affordable Care Act, both the Health Insurance Exchanges and Medicaid Expansion, will
provide more than eight hundred thousand people across Cook County with the possibility of affordable health
coverage, many of them for the first time. Members of SEIU, working at Cook County Health and Hospitals
System as frontline healthcare workers, champion this increased access to healthcare.

The in?ux of these newly insured Cook County residents into the healthcare market places Cook County
Health and Hospital System in a unique position;for the first time, will have to compete with
CountyCare in-network partners and out-of-network competitors to keep our patients who were previously
turned away from other providers before the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.

Our members are committed to providing world?class accessible care to Cook County communities.
Following the introduction and implementation of the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) model, our
members have rallied around this exciting step towards improving quality patient care at our outpatient clinics.

As described in the following pages, our members, directed by our elected union stewards and executive
leadership, provided helpful and significant feedback on the recent implementation of PCMH model, and the
overall state of 

Page 8 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Methods

Population

Surveys were collected from a total population of front line health care workers who are both SEIU
members and who interact with patients at outpatient clinics.

Clinics included in this data encompass over 10 sites, including Oak Forest, Woodlawn, Englewood,
Sengstacke, Prieto, Cicero, Vista, Logan Square, Fantus, and a large number of specialty clinics in Stroger
HOSpital.

Job titles represented included Health Advocates and Patient Care Attendants, Medical Assistants, Lab
Techs, Social Workers, Physician Assistants, Transporters, Building Service Workers, and other health care
professional, technical, and technologist occupations.

Survey

Survey respondents answered 11 multiple part questions. Questions were divided into Likert scale
responses where in eight separate sub?questions respondents had to circle a number on a five point scale. In six
additional questions respondents had the opportunity to write their own response. Four additional yes/no
questions were provided to identify whether a member identified as being on the Patient Centered
Medical Home Transformation Team and to what extent they wanted to become active in their union to work to
improve the quality of patients? experience. A copy of the survey is attached at the end of this document.

Analysis

SEIU Local 73?s research department?s initial analysis of survey data collected by SEIU members,
stewards and staff comprised the following steps. First, written responses were categorized into one or more of
29 themes or subjects. Then, the number of times members collectively raised each theme or subject was
counted for each similar group of questions. The frequency of members selecting a particular number on the
Likert scale was also measured separately for each of eight scaled sub?questions.

Page 9 of 67

Cook County Health and HOSpitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Results
What is Working?

A majority of ACHN SEIU members, when asked about what they think patients like about the new
services, answered questions that the research department categorized into 98 responses across 29 categories.
20 of the themes related to ?Communication with patients Accessibility of providers? An additional 13 
picked wait times and 13% ?Friendliness of staff to patients Respect of patients. 10 said teamwork and
communication between providers. Nine percent said patients liked nothing about the new services.

When ACHN SEIU members were asked about they think are positive aspects of the PCMH model at
their facility, they offered 144 responses, which the research department categorized into the same 29
categories. 22 of themes that our members thought were positive aspects of the PCMH model included
?Communication with patients Accessibility of providers.? 19 of responses touched on ?Teamwork 
Communication between providers.? 10% said Quality of services, 8% said ?Friendliness of staff to patients 
Respect of patients,? 6 said ?Scheduling appointments and or referrals? and 5 of responses touched on the
competency of staff.

What Needs to Change?

When ACHN SEIU members were asked about what can be improved, they provided 412 responses
categorized into 29 distinct themes. 19 of these responses related to patient wait times, 12 to scheduling
appointments and or referrals, and 11 to customer service, categorized as ?Friendliness of staff to patients 
Respect of patients.? 9% of responses discussed communication with patients and accessibility of providers,
and 8 discussed short staf?ng. 6 said facility cleanliness, and other facility issues, and 5 of responses
related to problems with broken or missing equipment and supplies.

Next Steps?

When ACHN SEIU members were asked what they could do with their colleagues and their union, out
of 99 responses in 29 categories, 31 of responses related to teamwork and communication with each other. 10
related to communication with patients, 7 was friendliness of staff to patients and respect of patients and 7
of responses thought we could do more to both increase staffing levels and equitably distribute workloads.

When ACHN SEIU members were asked what type of training management should provide, out of 74
responses, 22 of them were related to computers and electronic medical records. 16% were related to
working collectively in teams, 14% described opportunities for skills training and professional development, 9
said other, most of these were comments that no training had been provided, and 7% said customer service
training on how to be friendlier with patients and treat them with dignity and respect.

Page 10 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Conclusion

This report serves as both a celebration of new opportunities for improving patient care at our outpatient
clinics, and as a call to action to ensure the competitivenessof Cook County Health and Hospital System in the
new healthcare market. As members of SEIU Local 73, Cook County Health and Hospital System frontline
healthcare workers are continuing to improve patient care at our clinics.

 

We look forward to exciting possibilities emerging from the Labor?Management Council to involve
ourselves and our colleagues in decision-making and offer suggestions to improve patients? experience. This
Labor-Management Council is dedicated to strengthening the process of implementing the Patient Centered
Medical Home (PCMH) model and taking steps towards heightening the competitive advantage of Cook County
Health and Hospital system. We are stronger together.

We look forward to comments, questions and support from the members of the Safety and
Patient Quality Committee, and the members of the board at large.

Page 11 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals System0utpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

What ACHN SEIU Members Think Patients Like About The New Services

Pharmacy orders/ Staf?ng Scheduling
Prescriptions 2% appointments and or

3% referrals
Nothing
. 9%

    
 

4%

 
   
  
 
 
   

Patient happiness
4%
More efficient and
effective work processes
3%

Still working on the
implementation of the
PCMH model

3%

Continuity of care
2%

Computer/ Electronic
medical records

Availability of services 
Comprehensiveness of

4% communication Quality of services care
between providers 4% 3%
10%

 

Page 12 of 67

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

What ACHN SEIU Members Think Are Positive Aspects Of The PCMH
Model At Their Facility

Management/

/_leadership 2%

Pharmacy orders Nothing
Prescriptions

2%


   
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
   

. 2 Wait times
pate" t? 2%
Laboratory services Staff .

3%

Other

2%
Continuity of
care

3%

Availability of services 
Comprehensiveness of
care
4%

 

Page 13 of 67

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

Advertising services to What ACHN SEIU Members Think Can Be Improved

More efficient and Pharmacy orders/
effective work Prescriptions
Laboratory services processes 3%
1% 4%

    
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
     

Amenities for patients
(Food, etc.)

Schedulin
1%Transportation - 
appomtments and or
3%
referrals
Other 12%
1%

Time with
providers
3%

Morale

Computer/ Electrn1%

medical record
2%

Cleanliness/ Facili
upkeEp Facililv issu
6%

Equipment and or
supphes
5%

Teamwork/
Communication

 

between providers Quality of services Availa . Communication with
4% 1% Comprehensiveness of patients/ Accessibility
ca re of providers
4% 9%

 

 

10

Page 14 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

What types of training ACHN SEIU members think should be provided

   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 

More ef?cient and Nothing Scheduling
effective work 3% appointments and or
processes referrals
Still working on the 3% 5%
implementation of the
PCMH model
5% Communication with

patients/ Accessibility
of providers
5%

Friendliness of staff to
patients/ Respect
ofpatients
7%

 

11

Page 15 of 67

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

What ACHN SEIU members say can be done by them, their colleagues
and their union to make the PCMH model a succes

  
     
  
    
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

Still working on the More efficient and Management 
. . . leadership
Implementation of the effective work processes 29/
PCMH model 3% 0 Scheduling
1% appointments and or
Professional referrals
development/Training 4%

4%
Time with providers

ContInUIty of care 4%

1%

Friendliness of staff to
patients ReSpect
ofpatients
7%

Computer/ Eiectro
medical records
3%

Cleanliness/ Facil
upkeep Facilily iss
2%

Equipment and or
supplies
5%
Availability of services 
Comprehensiveness of
care
1%
Quality of services
2%

 

 

 

12

Page 16 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Did Management Prepare You To Work In The PCMH Model?
25
20
Number of
Responses all, 5: Completely

 

 

 

 

How has the PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability To See Patients In A
Timely Manner Shorter Wait Times And Real Appointments)?
35

30
25

Number of 20
Responses all, 5: Completely

 

 

 

13

Page 17 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

How Has The PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability to Provide Better

Number of

Responses

Patient Services and Care by Answering Questions and Being
Generally Helpful To Them?

30

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1: Not at all, 5: Completely

 

 

 

Number of
Responses

How Has The PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability To Deliver Quality
Care To Patients By Seeing The Same Team of Providersall, 5: Completely

 

14

Page 18 of 67

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

How Has The PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability To Have The Time
To Provide Critical Information To Patients, Particularly Those With
Chronic Care Problems?

Number of
Responses

 

all, 5: Completely

 

 

 

How Has The PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability To Schedule
Follow Up Appointment For Patients?

 

 

 

 

Number of 1
Responses

 

 

 

 

1: Not at all, 5: Completely

 

Page 19 of 67

 

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

 

 

How Has The PCMH Approach Improved Your Ability To Provide You An
Opportunity To Work As A Team With Your Colleagues?

30

 

 

 

Number of
Responses

 

 

 

 

1: Not at all, 5: Completely

 

 

 

How Do You Think Patients Like Receiving The Services At Your 

35
30

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number of
Responses

 

 

 

 

 

1: Do not like at all, 5: Like a lot

 

16

Page 20 of 67

 

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals SystemOutpatient Clinic Patient Satisfaction

Categorical Data Reference Codes

Staffing
Scheduling appointments and or referrals

 

 

Time with providers

 

Morale

 

Wait times

 

Communication with patients Accessibility of providers

 

Availability of services Comprehensiveness of ca re

 

Quality of services

 

Teamwork/ Communication between providers

 

Equipment and or supplies

 

Cleanliness/ Facility upkeep/ Facility issues

 

Computer/ electronic medical records

 

Friendliness of staff to patients/ Respect of patients

 

Continuity of care
Other
Professional development Training

 

 

 

Transportation

 

Amenities for patients (food, etc..)

 

Still working on the implementation of the PCMH model

 

Laboratory services

 

Advertising services to the public

 

More efficient and effective work processes

 

Patient happiness

 

Competent staff

 

Care for the underserved

 

Pharmacy Orders prescriptions
Nothing
Utilization

 

 

 

 



 

Management/ Leadership

 

Page 21 of 67

LOCAL 73 DOCTORS

 

COUNCIL

SEIU Member Survey: Fa-

SEIU Creating Patient-Centered Medical Homes at Cook County Health and Hospitals 
. . SEIU

Suenger?l'ogemer System?s ACHN Stronger Together

 

 

 

Name: Date
Phone: Personal Email
Site/Dept Shift Job Title . 

 

 

Please give the survey back to your union steward or representative or fax to 312-588-7581

1. Are you a member of the Patient-Centered Medical Home Transformation Team?
yes no

2. Creating Patient-Centered Medical Homes (PCMH) at is one of the critical ways we will use to
improve patient care and their experience. How has the PCMH approach improved your ability to:

Please rate on a scale of 1 5; 1=Not at all, 5: Completely

 

See patients in a timely manner shorter wait times and real appointments) 1 2 3 4 5
Provide better patient service and care by answering questions and being generally 1 2 3 4 5
helpful to them

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deliver quality care to patients by seeing the same team of providers 1 2 3 4 5
Have the time to provide critical information to patients, particularly those with 1 2 3 4 5
chronic care problems

Schedule follow up appointment for patients 1 2 3 4 5
Provide you an opportunity to work as a team with your colleagues 1 2 3 4 5

 

3. These next two questions are regarding patients and services at your facility:

Please rate on a scale of 1 5; 1=Do not like at all, 5: Like a lot

 

I How do you think patients like receiving the services at your PCMH What do they like about the new services?

 

 

 

4. What are the top two or three changes that you think patients would like to see improved?

a.

 

b.

 

 

Page 22 of 67

5. What do you feel are three positive aspects of the PCMH model at your facility?

 

 

 

6. What do you feel can be improved in order to deliver better patient care at your facility?

 

 

 

7. The next two questions are regarding your training to work in the PCMH model:

Please rate on a scale of 1 5; 1=Not at all, 5: Completely

 

I Did management prepare you to work in the PCMH model What additional training would be helpful?

 

 

 

8. What can you, your colleagues, and your union do to make the PCMH model a success?

 

 

 

9. Would you be interested in attending additional meetings about what SEIU and others members are
doing to improve patient care? yes no

10. Would you be willing to take a leadership role in your union to improve the quality of patients?
experience?
yes no

11. Would you be willing to help educate the patients in our community about how to enroll in County
Care so they can get services at one of our 
yes no

Survey returned to: (Name)

 

Page 23 of 67

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
September 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 24 of 67

 

 

 

Approach to Adverse
Event - HHS 2013

non, MD

  
   

T/hemodern patient safety

movement 

3?0 THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE Feb. 7. 1991

SPECIAL ARTICLES

 

INCIDENCE OF ADVERSE EVENTS AND NEGLIGENCE IN HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS
Results of the Harvard Medical Practice Study I

TROYEN A. BRENNAN. M.P.H.. M.D..J.D.. LUDIAN L. LEAPE. M.D.. NAN M. LAIRD. PH.D..
HEBERT. SDD.. A. RUSSELL LDDALID. J.D.. M.S.. M.P.H.. ANN G. SD.D..
JDSEPH P. EWHDUSE. PH.D.. PAUL C. WEILER. LL.M.. AND HOWARD H. HIATT. MD.

324 ND. 5 ADVERSE EVENTS IN HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS LEAPE ET AL. 

THE NATURE OF ADVERSE EVENTS IN HOSPITALIZED PATIENTS
Results Df the Harvard Medical Practice Study II

LUDIAN L. LEAPE. M.D.. TRDYEN A. BRENNAN. M.D.. JD.. M.P.H.. NAN LAIRD. 
ANN G. LAWTHERS. SDD.. A. RUSSELL LDDALID. J.D.. M.P.H.. BENJAMIN A. BARNES. M.D..
LIESI SDD.. JDSEPH P. NEWHDUSE. PHIEZPEDL C. WEILER. AND HDWARD HIATT. M.D.

IOM Report 1999
Public Release, Public Impact
 Summarized available

data
 44,000-98,000 deaths
annually due to medical
care
 About ½ are preventable
 Defined the future state
of patient safety
Page 27 of 67

 Current Regulatory Environment
 NQF Safe Practices – favors disclosure
 Joint Commission – favors reporting of sentinel events
 State of Illinois – law requiring reporting, not

currently enforced

 Leapfrog Group – recommends reporting and

disclosure

 CMS reports data publicly on Hospital Compare
Page 28 of 67

  



ub iclv Reported Data

JOHN JR HOSPITAL U3. NATIONAL RATE
mm Haeeiscin sT

cHicarsc. IL spars

[312181315000

 

Add tc Favcrites
Map and Directicns

Cipjects accidentally left in the bad; after surgery

Air bubble in the 

Mismatched types

Severe pressure scres [ped scresji

F3113 and ii'leii'hES

1HfEEt1Eli'l fi'EliTI El catheter a IEFQE 

Infecticn a urinary catheter

Signs cf placid sugar

 

per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 
patient discharges

H.211 per 1 
patient discharges

0.423 per 1 
patient discharges

1.269 
patient discharges

0.211 per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 
patient discharges

Page 29 of 67

per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 
patient discharges

p.135 per 1 
patient discharges

per 1 BED
patient discharges

0.3?2 
patient discharges

0.358 per 1 
patient discharges

ELEIEE per 1 
patient discharges

 

 



Overview and Definitions

 

Adverse Events: A Definition
Injury, or harm, due to
medical care unrelated to
the underlying disease or
condition of the patient

Page 31 of 67

 Adverse Events: All Causes
Adverse Event or
Harm

Medical error

No error

Violation

Slip or lapse

Mistake

Underlying illness
severity or known
complications of
treatment

Criminal activity
or wanton
disregard for rules

Simple error –
overlooked, forgot

Lack of
knowledge or
wrong plan

Page 32 of 67

 Cognitive Psychology of Errors
Behavior Type

Features

Type of Error

Practical
Causes

Intentional

Intention to
harm, or very
poor judgment or
disregard

Violations –
Criminal activity,
harm intended or drugs or
predictably
substance abuse
caused by
actions

Habitual

Automated,
repetitive,
monotonous

Slips – lapses in
automaticity,
unconscious

Stress, fatigue,
distraction, poor
system design

Cognitive

Requires analysis,
planning,
oversight, mental
effort

Mistakes –
wrong rules
applied, failure
of heuristics

Inadequate
knowledge or
experience

Page 33 of 67

 How Errors Occur: The ‘Person’ Approach
Errors arise from defective human processing
such as poor motivation, carelessness,
recklessness
Countermeasures to prevent them: punish the offender
Careless people simply need reminders and re-education
Hypothesis: Error is a moral issue; in a ‘just world’
bad outcomes result from bad intent

Reason, J. 2000 BMJ

Page 34 of 67

 How Errors Occur: The ‘Systems’ View
Hypothesis: humans are fallible and errors are
expected
Organizations contain ‘error traps’
Countermeasures: you cannot change the human
condition thus you must change the conditions under
which humans work
Use system defenses, build in checks and
redundancies

Reason, J. 2000 BMJ

Page 35 of 67

  

a 

Errors: Role of Serial Defenses

Hazards

The Swiss cheese model of how barriers, and eaieguarde
may he penetrated by an accident trajeetery

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reason. J. 2000 BMJ

Concept of Latent Errors
The ‘tip of
the iceberg’:

10%

We only see the errors
which reach the patient.
There is a larger group
of ‘latent’ errors or ‘near
misses’ which do not
reach the patient but if
combined with other
errors, have the
potential for harm.

90%
Latent
Errors

These are the actual
‘holes’ in the Swiss
cheese model.

Page 37 of 67

 Errors versus Adverse Events
 Adverse event – occurs

Preventable

when serial defenses fail
 One in ten errors result
in adverse events
 About one-half of all
adverse events are
preventable

Errors

Page 38 of 67

Adverse
Events

 Common Types of Medical Errors
 Adverse drug reactions:
 Wrong drug
 Wrong dose
 Allergic to drug
 Procedural complications:
 Anesthetic complications
 Technical complications
 Hospital acquired infections:
 Line sepsis, Catheter-associated urinary tract infections
(CAUTI), Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), surgical
infection
 Other acquired conditions:
 Falls with injury, pressure ulcers
 Diagnostic errors
Page 39 of 67

 What are Sentinel Events?
A Sentinel Event is an unexpected occurrence involving
death or serious physical or psychological injury or the risk
thereof. Serious injury specifically includes loss of limb or
function. [They] signal the need for immediate investigation
and response…

The Joint Commission

Page 40 of 67

 Sentinel Events
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Suicide of a patient
Death of a full term infant
Abduction of any patient
Rape
Discharge of an infant to the wrong family
Hemolytic transfusion reaction
Surgery on the wrong patient or wrong site
Retained foreign object in surgery
Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia > 30
Prolonged fluoroscopy

• And any unanticipated death or major loss of function

not related to the patient’s underlying illness
Page 41 of 67

 Hospital Acquired Conditions
(subset of Never Events-NQF)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Air embolism
Blood incompatibility
Catheter associated UTI
Deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism
associated with hip or knee surgery
Epidermis – pressure ulcers st III, IV
Forgotten object – left in surgery
Glycemic control poor – diabetic ketoacidosis or
hyperosmolar nonketotic crisis
Harm in hospital – fall, burn, shock
Indwelling line infection
Infection after surgery – CABG, ortho, bariatric
Page 42 of 67

 LIZ

 



Identification Reporting

 

Identification of Adverse Events
 Reporting – phone call or directly contact by the clinician or

observer
 Electronic reporting systems (MERS)

 MERS is transitioning to a new system in October, evaluation is

underway for a new system

 Audit or case review:
 Internal – case conference, morning report
 External – quality reviews by payers
 Litigation/ malpractice claims
 Surveillance:
 Review of all deaths, arrests, ICU transfers, reoperations
 ‘Trigger tools’ – algorithms which identify adverse events with a
high degree of accuracy
Page 44 of 67

 Immediate Reporting of Adverse Events
Clinical Adverse Event or
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No
Patient Harm

Attending Physician
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per
Attending Physician

Patient or Family
Concern

Notify Risk Management
Immediately

Notify Chief Medical
Officer/Executive
Medical Director

Notify Department Chair
or Oversight Committee

Leadership Notification:
COO, Executive Medical
Director, Quality

Notify Quality

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

Page 45 of 67

Enter into On-Line Event
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

 REPORTER - Login
Reporter’s Login Page
• You can enter events in
MERS as an EMPLOYEE
(authenticated/logged
in) or VISITOR
(anonymously)
Icon on all computer
screens
Easy to enter information
• You can return within 12
hours to complete an
event.

Confidential
Page 46 of 67

 MERS Patient Safety Event Reporting
NEW web-based program collects,

16 EVENT
Categories
Falls

reports, and analyzes patient event
Medication

& near miss data

Radiology

1-CAPTURE

Blood

Easy web-based program to
record an EVENT in 3-4 minutes

Behavior

Laboratory

Infection

2-REVIEW

Accident

Automatically routes EVENT to
the appropriate manager(s)

Skin

Anesthesia

Obstetrical

Equipment

3-ANALYZE/REPORT
Built-in analytical tools for Root
Cause Analysis and Trending

Invasive

General Care

Dietary

Page 47 of 67

Confidential

Pt Complaints

 ADVERSE EVENT

Notification

Risk management -- MERS
SYSTEM
CEO, CCI, Exec Med Dir, Exec
Nursing Dir ,CQO General
Counsel

Risk management conducts an
investigation

Risk management evaluates the
potential impact of the event

Risk Management reports to Excess
Carrier

Investigation

AFFILIATE
Attending phys, affiliate
phys/nursing/operational
leadership

Leaders review event w/in 24 hours
Communication with patient, family

Analysis

Quality Director /CMO direct a Root
Cause Analysis

Prevention

Quality/Oversight Committee reviews
RCA , implements plan

Summary to CCHHS QPS
Page 48 of 67

  



Analysis

  

Managing High Risk Adverse Events
1. Care for the Patient
2. Conduct Initial Fact Finding
3. Care for Caregivers
4. Report to Insurance Carrier
5. Conduct Root Cause Analysis
6. Implement Corrective Actions
Page 50 of 67

 Root Cause Analysis:
 Goal: use a structured method to identify all potential

causes of an event
 Goal: prevention of future events
 Domains of evaluation:
 Provider factors –delays, errors

 Communication, information transfer or availability
 Work environment, staffing, equipment
 Organization and management

 RCA group includes members from different

disciplines ; prefer front line staff
Page 51 of 67

 Sequential Failures Lead to the Event:
All failure points should be addressed

Reason, J. 2000 BMJ

Page 52 of 67

 

The Joint Commission

RCA Questions Guidelines
Revise 

RGGT CAUSE ANALYSIS QEESTIQNS GUIDELINES

The Joint Commission Root Cause r?inalvsis and Action Plan tool has 24 analvsis questions- The following guidelines are
intended to assist in answemig the analvsis questions listed. Be sure to enter a response in the ?Root Cause ?nalvsis

Findings? for each question If you have anv questions or continue to have dif?cultv submitting the tool,
please call the Sentinel Event Unit at {330?792?3700.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Question ?nalj'sis Question Prompts

1 What was the intended List the relevant process steps as defined bv the policv, procedure, protocol, or
process floss?iJ guidelines in effect at the time of the event- You majr need to include multiple
processes.
Note: The process steps is: fig crowed in the new will be entered in the neat question.
Enamples of de?ned process steps mav include, but are not limited to:
I Site veri?cation protocol
I Instrument, sponge, sharps count procedures
I Patient identification protocol
I Assessment I'Qpain, suicide rislt, ph?ical, and procedures
I Fall rishft'all prevention guidelines
2 Were there anv steps in the Explain in detail anv deviation from the intended processes listed in ?naljrsis Item #1
process that did not occur as above.
intended?J
3 What human factors were Discuss staff?related human performance factors that conttibuted to the event.
relevant to the outcome? Enamples mav include, but are not limited to:
I Boredom
I Failure to follow established policie sf'proced1 ires
I Fatigue
I Inabilitv to focus on tasls
I Inattentional blindnes sf con?rmation bias
I Personal problems
I Lack of complea critical thinking slsills
I Rushing to complete tasls
I Substance abuse
I Trust
4- How did the equipment Consider all medical equipment and devices used in the course of patient care, including

 

performance affect the
outcome?

 

AED devices, crash carts, suction, ozvgen, instruments, monitors, infusion equipment,
etc. In vour discussion, provide information on the following, as applicable:

I Descriptions of biomedical checlss

I of equipment

 

What a Root Cause Analysis is NOT
 A way to identify a single ‘root’ cause
 A way to assign responsibility for the outcome

Page 54 of 67

  

 



Blame free? Culture versus
?Just culture?

Accountability

 
 
 

Blame Free

‘Just culture’ Framework
 Most errors are due to systems issues
 Tension between ‘blame free’ culture and accountability
 Framework asks 4 questions:
 Criminal activity?
 Substance issues/ incapacity?
 Compliance with policies?
 Substitution test  would another person act the same way in
the same situation?
 This creates a culture of safety encourages future

reporting and investigation, creates a safer organization
Page 56 of 67

 Periermance Management Decisien Tree

Adapted James Heascn's Decisi'eri- Tree fer Determining the Dareaeimy ei" Unsafe r-iets and

Start

Deliberate Act Test

 

 

 

Incapacity:r Test

Did the individual intend it?:

the act? 

'fesl

Did the individual intend
the cutccme?

Is there evidence at ill health
er substance abuse? 

'T'esl

Did the individual have a
medical cenditien?

 

 

 

 

He

 

 

"i'II'r-r 


if: tie"! 

[Ccnsult Human Rescurces]

- Dccupaticnal health referral

- Adjustment cfduties

- Leave cf ahsence



[Ccnsult Human Rescurces] 
i



i

if substance abuse: i














- Disciplinarv acticn 
. Hepcrt tc prefessicnal grcup 
er regulatcrv hedv 
- Lavv referral i
- Substance abuse testing
- Disciplinarv actien




Curll'itiuti'lg

Healthcare Perfermance Improvement
Leading edge metheels. Preven business sense.

30

the i'riei'e'eritDeeiisi'eri Tree at the Naticnal Patient Safetv Agencv (United Naticnal Health Service]

Dempliance Test

 

 

 

Substitutien Test

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(El Heal?dcare F'er?zirmance LLC. RIGHTS 

 

 

 

Weuld ether individuals in the 
"a Did the individual depart same prefessicn and having i'fEE
agreed upcn er ccmparahle skills,
precedures? and experience act the same
under similar circumstances?
?fesl Hal
Were the and . . .
T35 precedures available, Were ?lei? anv  "i"es
training, ei-iperience, 
understandable, . .
. . cr supervisicn?
and in rcutine use?
"r'es Hal
Is there evidence that the i
I individual chase is take an Yes Were there signi?cant TEE
unacceptable risl-t cr has a mitigating circumstances?
trend peer 
He Hal

i -it'ii'r-v'ia ri-L'ia'erii'n i
{DensultHuman Rescurces} I [Ccnsult Human Rescurces] 
- Ccaching - Disciplinarv acticn 
i - lvlentcr assignment i i . duh-tit ccnsideraticn 
- Increased supervisicn 
i - F'eifcrmance Adjustment cf duties i i i

I Curlrituti'lg I ldertify 
SystemFactu's SystemFacters 
Review fer
System Failure
Page 57 of67 33

RCA – Corrective Actions
 Devise strong interventions
 Work flow modification
 Use of technology
 Avoid weak interventions
 Lectures
 ‘Counseling’
 Promote collaboration in solutions
 Assign accountability using the just culture framework
 Measure compliance; assure sustainability
 Report back to involved departments
Page 58 of 67

 Summary
 Adverse events occur when a series of latent errors

reaches the patient
 A systematic approach to error reporting is crucial for
appropriate identification and prevention
 Root cause analysis is a systematic way to identify all
the factors to result in an adverse event
 A just culture approach avoids placing blame on
individuals and assigns accountability in a structured
fashion
Page 59 of 67

  



Questions

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
September 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 61 of 67

  

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff Appointmentiseappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Abadin, Shabirhusain., MD Surgery/General Surgery Active Physician
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Bayissa, Yohannes, A., MD Medicine/Hospital Medicine Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Chiu, Bill, MD Surgery/Pediatrics Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Khanna, Samrat U., MD Medicine/Hospital Medicine Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Skondra, Dimitra, MD Surgery/Ophthalmology Active Physician
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Wang, Lee E, MD Surgery/Ophthalmology Consulting Physician
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Initial Non-Physician Appointment Applications

Caceres, Victor T., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
With Sherman, Scott C. MD

Alternate Sergei, Michelle J., MD

Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Halley, Candida A., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
With Moskoff, Jordan 3., MD
Alternate Kysia, Rashid Fuad, MD

Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Hubl, Jessica L., CRNA Anesthesiology Nurse Anesthetist
Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Kalman, Michelle R., PA-C Correctional Health Services Physician Assistant

With Menezes, Ralph, MD
Alternate Kelner, David Dimitri, MD
Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Anesthesiology

Krause, Mark, MD Anesthesiology Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015
Swiner, Connie, MD Anesthesiology 63% Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 19, 2013 thru October 18, 2015 APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY ITTEE

ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2013

Item September 23, 2013
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 1 Of 6 REVISED
Page 62 of 67

John H. Stroqer, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Correctional Health Services

Kartan, Usha, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Ledvora, Ronald, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Marri, Bharathi, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rabin, Randy, DDS
Reappointment Effective:


September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Internal Medicine
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015


October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Dentistiy
September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Department of Emergency Medicine

Mark, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Weber, Joseph, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Medicine

Beard, Glenn, A.T., MD
Reappointment Effective:

DeLeon, Humberto, R., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Hanna, Aseel, A., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Haratau, Joana, C., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mosnaim, Giselle, S., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Patel, Shilpa, M., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Pathology

Strauss, Ronald, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Tarjan, Gabor, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Pediatrics

Agarwal, Ghanshyam, D., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item September 23, 2013

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Emergency Medicine
October 16, 2013 thru September 20, 2015

Emergency Medicine
October 20, 2013 thru October 19, 2015

Pulmonary Critical Care Medicine
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Hospital Medicine
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Medicine/ACHN
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

General Medicine
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Pulmonary Critical Care Medicine
October 20, 2013 thru October 19, 2015

Infectious Diseases
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Blood Bank
September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Anatomic Pathology
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Dentist

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Consulting Physician

Consulting Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Neonatology Physician
October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015 APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT COM 

ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2013

Page 2 of6
Page 63 of 67

REVISED

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications

Department of Pediatrics (continued)

Cuniil, Denise, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Dighe, Dipti, S., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Kangethe, Francis, T., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Lorand, Michele, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Moy, James, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Sisung, Charles, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Walton-Verner, Kimberly MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Radiology

Sansi, Pratiba MD
Reappointment Effective:

Sobti, Pamela, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surgery

Burke, Winston, DPM
Reappointment Effective:

Garapati, Rajeev, MD
Reappointment Effective:

ACHN
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Hematology/Oncology
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Emergency Medicine
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Child Protective Services
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Allergy and immunology
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Rehabilitation Medicine
September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

ACHN
October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Nuclear Medicine
October 20, 2013 thru October 19, 2015

Radiology
October 20, 2013 thru October 19, 2015

Podiatry
September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Orthopaedics
October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff

Darang-Coieman, Michelle, CNP

With Goldberg, David N., MD
Effective:

Fowler, Nancy C., CNP
With Thomas, Lynelle E., MD
Effective:

Krueger, Kristin, 
Effective:

Simmons, Zina M., CNP

With Kelleher, Patricia, MD
Effective:

Item September 23, 2013

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Medicine General Medicine

October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015
Juvenile Center

November 20, 2013 thru November 19, 2015


September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Medicine General Medicine

November 24, 2013 thru November 23, 2015



 

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Affiliate Podiatrist

Voluntary Physician

Nurse Practitioner

Nurse Practitioner

Clinical 

Nurse Practitioner


APPROVED



ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2013

Page 3 of 6
Page 64 of 67

REVISED

 

John H. Stroqer, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Renewal of Privileqes for Non-Medical Staff (continued)

Welland, Sandra J., CRNA Anesthesiology Nurse Anesthetist
Effective: November 24, 2013 thru November 23, 2015

Medical Staff Status Change with no Change in Privilegg

Brown, Anthony, MD From: Voluntary Physician To: Consulting Physician



APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY CO EE
ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2013
Item September 23, 2013

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 4 0f 6 REVISED
Page 65 of 67

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff Reappointments and Action Items Subject to Approval by the Quality and Patient

Safety Committee
INITIAL APPLICATION

Sharma, Vibhu, MD Internal Medicine/Pulmonary
Appointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Anesthesiology

Krause, Mark, MD Anesthesiology
Reappointment Effective: October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Department of Clinical Labs/Anatomic Patholoqv

Vera Ray, MD Clinical Pathology
Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru August 19, 2015

Department of Emergency Medicine

Bhatt, Tapan, DO Emergency Medicine

Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015
Linda, DO Emergency Medicine

Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015
Simeakis, Sophie, DO Emergency Medicine

Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015
Sigamony, Ranjit, MD Emergency Medicine

Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Vaseemuddin, Mohammad, MD Urgent Care Medicine
Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

Department of Family Medicine

Jacobson, Anne, MD ACHN
Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2013 thru September 22, 2015

@artment of Internal Medicine

Carryon, Paul X., MD Cardiology 
Reappointment Effective: October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015 APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY 
Item September 23, 2013 ON SEPTEMB 23 2013
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 5 Of 6 REVIEED 

Page 66 of 67

Affiliate Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Es,

Provident Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications

Department of Internal Medicine (continued)

Maliakkal, Anto V., MD Internal Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015

Tulaimat, Aiman MD Pulmonary Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 21, 2013 thru March 18, 2015

Pierre-Louis, Serge, J.C., MD Neurology Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 18, 2013 thru October 17, 2015

Singleton, Jr., Lafayette, MD Neurology Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 18, 2013 thru December 17, 2014

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Gamble, Tondalaya, MD Obstetrics/Gynecology Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 21, 2013 thru October 20, 2015

Department of Radiology

 

Williams, Kenneth, MD Radiology Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2013 thru October 15, 2015
Department of Surgery
Szatkowski, Jan, MD Orthopedics Affiliate Physician
Reappointment Effective: October 18, 2013 thru September 20, 2015

APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMM
ON SEPTEMBER 23, 2013
Item September 23, 2013
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 6 0f 6 REVISED
Page 67 of 67

