HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
REVISED
February 14, 2012
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will
meet on Friday, February 17, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

7:30/Chairman Lyne

II.

Public Speakers

7:30-7:40

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department

7:40-8:20

A. Report from Interim Chief Human Resource Officer
B. Report from Interim Director of Human Resources

Maureen O’Donnell
Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with the following:
i. Fraternal Order of Police – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
Security Officers
ii. Fraternal Order of Police – Oak Forest Health Facilities
Security Officers
iii. House Staff Association – post-graduate level physicians and
chief residents
iv. Metropolitan Alliance of Police – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
Sergeants
v. Pharmacy Association Local 200 (RWDSU Local 200) –
Administrative Assistants IIIs and IVs
vi. Pharmacy Association Local 200 (RWDSU Local 200) – postgraduate level physicians and chief residents Pharmacists and
pharmacy technicians
vii. Teamsters Local 700 – Oak Forest Health Facilities
Sergeants/Investigators
viii. Teamsters 743 – Provident Hospital Employees
ix. National Nurses Organizing Committee – Registered Nurses

8:20-8:30/Maureen O’Donnell

B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Proposed salary offers
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
**Report from System Human Resources Department

8:30-8:55

 REVISED AGENDA
Friday, February 17, 2012 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Session Items (continued)
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Open Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal
of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman:
Lyne
Members:
Board Chairman Batts (Ex-Officio) and
Directors Carvalho, Golden, Ramirez and Rothstein

 