Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Friday,
October 3, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman M. Hill Hammock, Vice Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler and Directors David Carvalho; Lewis
M. Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Jorge
Ramirez; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (10)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer - System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Randolph Johnston – Associate General Counsel
Terry Mason, MD – Cook County Department of Public
Health
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel

II.

Ammar Rizki – Cook County Deputy Chief Financial
Officer
Ivan Samstein – Cook County Chief Financial Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Employee Recognition
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, recognized employees for outstanding achievements. Details and
further information is included in Attachment #4 - Report from the Chief Executive Officer.

IV.

Proposed Resolutions (Attachment #1)
Proposed Resolutions honoring the following departing Members of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System:





David Carvalho
Rev. Calvin Morris, PhD
Luis Muñoz, MD
Jorge Ramirez

This item was considered by the Board near the end of the meeting, prior to convening into a closed meeting.
Chairman Hammock thanked the outgoing Board Members and provided an overview of their contributions as members
of this Board. He noted that Directors Carvalho, Muñoz and Ramirez were here in the earliest years, when the
environment was the most difficult and chaotic; they helped form the Board and System as it exists today. Each brought
a special talent to this organization; he stated that this Board appreciates their guidance and perspective.
Director Lerner, seconded by Vice Chairman Butler, moved the approval of the four (4)
proposed Resolutions. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 1 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 2

V.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, August 29, 2014
Director Lerner, seconded by Vice Chairman Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of August 29, 2014.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, September 19, 2014
 Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement - Prevailing Wage Rates with Operating Engineers, Local 399
 Proposed Amendment to Exhibit 1 of the CCHHS Severance Policy
During the presentation of the Minutes, the Board discussed the subject of the proposed Amendment to
Exhibit 1 of the CCHHS Severance Policy.
Director Lerner inquired whether this proposed Amendment was based on an external review by
compensation and benefit experts to bring the System’s Policy up to speed with market competition in this
area. Elizabeth Reidy, General Counsel, responded in the negative. The Policy that was passed by the Board
in 2010 contained a list of titles that were allowed severance if the individuals were terminated without cause;
it was recognized that the list of titles did not appropriately reflect the current list of titles in the organizational
structure as it is now.
Director Lerner inquired whether an external review of compensation and benefits has been done since this
Board has been in place. Director Carvalho responded that, about a year into this Board’s existence, there
was a consulting firm who evaluated the System’s compensation and benefits packages; he was unsure
whether that evaluation led to a final report. He added that, from time to time, there have been efforts to look
into the area of compensation, especially for physicians and others. With respect to the Severance Policy in
particular, at the time it was adopted, the Board had a three-year life, subject to being extended. The
administration was having a hard time recruiting senior-level people; one of the customary benefits of
working at the County is the pension, but a person coming in from the outside at the senior level is not
anticipating to work for the County for thirty (30) years.
Director Lerner requested that the administration engage an external consultant for a full external review of
salaries, benefits and compensation, with the Board’s concurrence and approval. He stated that, based on his
knowledge of this field, this Severance Policy is not in line with what is commonplace in healthcare
administration and institutions of this size; he would like to see a comparison with both the private market and
public market. Additionally, he noted that recruiting people to work in a managed care environment will be
different than recruiting for an institutional environment, and there will be different pros and cons associated
with that. Director Carvalho inquired whether Director Lerner believes that the System’s Severance Policy
provides for less than what is typically provided. Director Lerner responded in the affirmative. Director
Ramirez recommended that, when benchmarking, a very commonsense approach should be used, as well; for
certain metrics, the private sector is not always the best place to turn. Chairman Hammock requested that the
Human Resources Committee further review this matter, and requested that a report be provided to the Board
after such review1.
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of September 19, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 2 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 3

V.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, September 19, 2014
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as an attachment to the Board Agenda)
It was noted that Contract Compliance had completed review of all of the contracts considered at the
September 19th Finance Committee Meeting.
On the subject of Contract Compliance, Director Carvalho provided additional information. There is a
provision in the law that prohibits telling a contractor whom to use as subcontractors, unless it is in
accordance with a bona fide minority- and women-owned business enterprise (MBE/WBE)
ordinance. Several years ago, there were instances in which some Commissioners were trying to get
some vendors to use certain subcontractors. At that time, the System Board asked the Director of
Contract Compliance whether Commissioner involvement in the selection of MBE/WBEs was part of
a bona fide contract compliance program; her response was in the negative, so it was on the record
that that type of activity is not permitted.
Vice Chairman Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of September 19, 2014.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, September 23, 2014
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
 Proposed Patient Safety Plan – Stroger Hospital
Director Collens, seconded by Vice Chairman Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of September 23, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Action Items
A. Approval of proposed 2015 Board of Directors Meeting Dates
Chairman Hammock indicated that this item is expected to be presented at the October 31st Board Meeting for
approval; he requested that the Directors inform the Board Secretary if they have any conflicts with the draft dates
that have been circulated.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #2)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the request presented
for the Board’s consideration. The Board reviewed and discussed the request.
Ms. Besenhofer noted that this request was amended; after further review, it was realized that the scope and total
cost had been underestimated, based on the System’s needs. She stated that the individuals from this company are
human resource professionals who will be working side by side with Gladys Lopez, Chief of Human Resources,
and her team. They will go through Shakman training, will operate under the System’s policies and procedures
and will be given specific positions to fill. To clarify, Chairman Hammock inquired whether the intent is to
Page 3 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 4

VI.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
expedite the System’s hiring by using these additional resources; additionally, he inquired whether this contract is
resulting from a request for proposals (RFP) process. Ms. Besenhofer responded in the affirmative.
Director Ramirez, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of request number 1, as
amended, under the Contracts and Procurement Items.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections IV, V, VI and X

VII. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Items
A. Cook County Asset Management Ordinance Overview (Attachment #3)
Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer of Cook County, reviewed a presentation regarding the Cook County Asset
Management Ordinance. Subjects included in the information included the following: Overview; Proposed
Governance Structure; Asset Market Contracting Process; Program Revenue Structure; Program Manager
Commission Structure; Proposed Vendor Experience; Current Asset Marketing Programs Within County; and Next
Steps.
Mr. Samstein indicated that the CCHHS representative for the marketing committee will be selected by Dr.
Shannon. That person would have the ability to say whether a particular asset is consistent with the organization’s
character, and is someone who speaks for the organization in that regard. The committee will first promulgate
rules, and will be responsible for making policy decisions. Additionally, he stated that when they bring the vendor
in, the vendor will meet with all of the representative areas like CCHHS and do a survey and analysis to determine
the final list of possibilities.
Director Velasquez referenced the subject of selling intellectual property. Director Lerner stated that there is not a
university in this world who is not trying to commercialize their intellectual property; that becomes a battle within
the university, especially an academic medical center, between the university, department and investigators
regarding who gets the assets and who gets to reap the rewards. He recommended that they exercise caution in that
area. He inquired whether naming opportunities would be considered. Mr. Samstein responded that naming
opportunities are something that they would entertain in the appropriate venue. In an example involving CCHHS,
CCHHS would determine whether they thought it was appropriate and the right fit. Director Lerner referenced the
Cook County Health Foundation, which was established to support philanthropic efforts; he stated that this is
another area in which efforts need to be integrated, especially with naming opportunities.
Director Collens inquired whether this revenue will be returned to the component group. Mr. Samstein responded
that, in the case of CCHHS, the revenue would go to the Health Fund. For other areas of the County, because they
are supported by the County’s General Fund, half of it would go to their budget target and the other half would go
to general County operations. When CCHHS develops its budget, anticipated revenue from this type of source
would be built into CCHHS’ budget as non-operating revenue; this would be a part of the overall budget
formulation. Director Lerner inquired whether that would then reduce or offset support received from existing
sources. Mr. Samstein responded that there is not a definitive answer to that; he indicated that this would be part
of the annual conversation on support resources that takes place every year. He added that their hope is to generate
additional revenues.
Page 4 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 5

VII. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Items
A.

Cook County Asset Management Ordinance Overview (continued)
At the conclusion of the discussion, Chairman Hammock requested that the guidelines be shared with the Board
once they are developed; the Board can further discuss it at that time.

VIII. Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Hammock provided comments on the accomplishments of the outgoing Board Members as part of his report,
during the consideration of the proposed Resolutions under Section IV of the Agenda.

IX.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #4)
Dr. Shannon provided an update on several subjects; detail is included in Attachment #4.
During the discussion of the update on the Partnerships to Improve Community Health grant awarded to the Cook
County Department of Public Health, Director Velasquez requested information on the community organizations
included in the partnership alliance. Dr. Terry Mason, Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of
Public Health, responded that he will provide a list of the partners that are part of the grant.
Dr. Shannon provided additional information regarding monitoring of the Ebola situation. He stated that leadership
from the Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Critical Care, Nursing,
Disaster Preparedness and Public Health are all working together to make sure that staff at the Ambulatory sites and in
the main central campuses are prepared with the knowledge, screening questions and protective equipment necessary,
should that threat present itself at the System. He stated that most of the information that is going out to the public is
going out through the public health mechanism; this includes information that flows from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) out to the state public health departments, who then cascade that information out.
Chairman Hammock inquired regarding protocols for the City of Chicago and the County. Dr. Mason responded that
the protocols for Chicago and O’Hare Airport are the function of the Chicago Department of Public Health; they would
be responsible for developing any protocols, in addition to those protocols of the federal agencies involved. Suburban
Cook County is under the jurisdiction of the Cook County Department of Public Health.
Dr. Shannon noted that a difference between the potential threat posed by the Ebola virus, compared to the real threat
that is seen every year in this country from influenza, is that for influenza, there are effective public health measures that
have been proven to reduce harm. This comparison was recently used to kick off the System’s annual influenza vaccine
drive for employees and patients served. He stated that the point being made to staff regarding influenza vaccinations
for employees is that, first and foremost, it is a safety measure for the System’s patients; it is also a good evidence-based
practice.
Director Collens applauded the heavy focus on making sure that all staff are vaccinated. He inquired further regarding
the exceptions for those who cannot get the vaccine for medical and religious reasons. Dr. Shannon responded that both
exceptions are required by law. In an example in which an employee refuses the vaccine due to medical or religious
reasons, Director Collens inquired whether the System is legally required to put that employee in direct patient contact.
Dr. Shannon responded that the System’s policy allows for consultation between management and its infection control
officer and epidemiologist. The appropriate mitigation strategy might be something as simple as masking, or may
require something as complex as reassignment - that will vary depending on the circumstances.
Page 5 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 6

X.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, September 19, 2014
Director Butler, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to recess the open meeting and
convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel
for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of
the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims
as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or
discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body
is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Hammock, Vice Chairman Butler and Directors Carvalho, Collens,
Gugenheim, Lerner, Muñoz, Ramirez, Velasquez and Wiese (10)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Hammock declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into the open meeting.

XI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Hammock declared that the meeting was ADJOURNED.

Page 6 of 34

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 3, 2014
Page 7

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: request that the Human Resources Committee review the matter of engaging an external
consultant for a full external review of salaries, benefits and compensation, and report back to
the Board after such review. Page 2.

Page 7 of 34

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 3, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 34

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RESOLUTION

Sponsored by
M. HILL HAMMOCK, CHAIR, THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, VICE CHAIR,
LEWIS M. COLLENS, ADA MARY GUGENHEIM, WAYNE M. LERNER, DPH,
LUIS MUNOZ, MD, MPH, JORGE RAMIREZ,
CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in May of 2008, DAVID CARVALHO was appointed by the President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of Commissioners, to serve as a member of the
inaugural Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System and

WHEREAS, MR. dedication and commitment to the County?s health system began
nearly 25 years ago when he was recruited by then Cook County Board President Richard Phelan to,
among other things, assist in the development of the Cook County Bureau of Health Services; and

WHEREAS, MR. CARVALHO ultimately moved to the health system to serve as counsel and advisor to
Ruth M. Rothstein, Chief of the Cook County Bureau of Health Services; and

WHEREAS, as a result of his experience, while serving as a member of the Board, MR.
CARVALHO brought a wisdom and unique historical perspective which has been invaluable to both the
System Board and the leadership team; and

WHEREAS, MR. CARVALHO played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new governance
structure of the Health System, which demanded a considerable time commitment from its volunteer
Board members; and

WHEREAS, MR. CARVALHO was a part of the inaugural board which recognized the need to recruit
and retain highly qualified healthcare leaders and was instrumental in putting a leadership team in place to
oversee the operations of the nation?s third largest public health system; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, MR. CARVALHO was a part of
the governing body that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision 2015,
dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health services with dignity
and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically changing healthcare landscape;
and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board 'of Directors, MR. CARVALHO was a part of
. ., .. now
a County Managed Care Community Network, which to date a . - . 300k

  
 

WHEREAS, MR. CARVALHO graciously lent his vast experti - to the He aqtl; g?ygtemM by serving 3 the
Chair of the Health System Board?s Finance Committee from 20 8 through the Human Resources Committee from 2008 through 2012, and 919 shair

 


of the Health System Board from July of 2012 through July of 20 I WH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 

Page 9 of 34

WHEREAS, during his tenure with the Health System, MR. CARVALHO earned the genuine respect of
his fellow Board members for his keen insight, attention to detail, and knowledge in the areas of legal and
regulatory affairs, public administration and public policy; and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held MR. CARVALHO in high regard and appreciated
his strength and support, as well as his ability to lead with integrity and objectivity.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, does hereby
gratefully acknowledge DAVID CARVALHO for his extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and
unwavering commitment to the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Approved on October 3, 2014 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System.

Page 10 of 34

 

R-14-04

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RESOLUTION

Sponsored by
M. HILL HAMMOCK, CHAIR, THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, VICE CHAIR,
DAVID CARVALHO, LEWIS M. COLLENS, ADA MARY GUGENHEIM,
WAYNE M. LERNER, DPH, LUIS MUNOZ, MD, MPH, JORGE RAMIREZ,
CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in June of 2012, REV. CALVIN S. MORRIS, was appointed by the President of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of Commissioners, to serve as a
member of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, REV. MORRIS was a part of the
governing body that shepherded in CountyCare, an Illinois Medicaid Demonstration Project and now a
County Managed Care Community Network, which to date has provided more than 100,000 Cook County
residents with access to comprehensive healthcare; and

WHEREAS, REV. MORRIS graciously lent his vast expertise to the Health System by serving as a
member of the Health System Board?s Audit Committee and Work Group on Af?liations from August of
2012 through August of2014; and

WHEREAS, during his tenure with the Health System, REV. MORRIS earned the genuine respect of his
fellow Board members for his keen insight, compassion and knowledge in the areas of community public
health, patient experience and community representation; and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held REV. MORRIS in high regard and appreciated
his strength and support, as well as his integrity and objectivity.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County, does hereby
gratefully acknowledge REV. CALVIN S. MORRIS, for his extraordinary abilities, outstanding
leadership and unwavering commitment to the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Approved on October 3, 2014 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System.

4-, 

OCT 0-3 21114

      
  

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

Page 11 Of 34

R-14-05

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RESOLUTION

Sponsored by
M. HILL HAMMOCK, CHAIR, THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, VICE CHAIR,
DAVID CARVALHO, LEWIS M. COLLENS, ADA MARY GUGENHEIM,
WAYNE M. LERN ER, DPH, JORGE RAMIREZ,
CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, DIRECTORS

WHEREAS in May of 2008, LUIS MUNOZ, MD, MPH was appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of Commissioners, to serve as a member of
the inaugural Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, DR. MUNOZ played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new governance
structure of the Health System, which demanded a considerable time commitment from its volunteer
Board members; and

WHEREAS, DR. MUNOZ was a part of the inaugural board which recognized the need to recruit and
retain highly quali?ed healthcare leaders and was instrumental in putting a leadership team in place to
oversee the operations of the nation?s third largest public health system; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, DR. MUNOZ was a part of the
governing body that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision 2015,
dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health services with dignity
and respect regardless of a patient? 5 ability to pay in today?s dramatically changing healthcare landscape;
and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, DR. MUNOZ was a part of the
governing body that shepherded in CountyCare, an Illinois Medicaid Demonstration Project and now a
County Managed Care Community Network, which to date has provided more than 100,000 Cook County
residents with access to comprehensive healthcare; and

WHEREAS DR. MUNOZ graciously lent his vast expertise to the Health System by serving as the Chair
of the Health System Board?s Audit Committee, member of the Health System Board?s Finance
Committee from 2008 through 2012, and member of the Health System Board?s Quality and Patient
Safety Committee from 2008 through 2014; and

 

medicine and ?nancial accountability; and L, 3 2014

WHEREAS the Health System?s leadership team held DR. OZ 1n 1.11%? Egg?ba??l appreciatd his

strength and support, as well as his ability to lead with integrity a .mp6

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Di?ctors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County, does hereby
gratefully acknowledge LUIS MUNOZ, MD, MPH for his extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership
and unwavering commitment to the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Approved on October 3, 2014 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System.

Page 12 of 34

R-14-06

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

RESOLUTION

Sponsored by
M. HILL HAMMOCK, CHAIR, THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, VICE CHAIR,
DAVID CARVALHO, LEWIS M. COLLENS, ADA MARY GUGENHEIM,
WAYNE M. LERNER, DPH, LUIS MUNOZ, MD, MPH,
CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, DIRECTORS

WHEREAS in May of 2008, JORGE RAMIREZ was appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, and confirmed by the Board of Commissioners, to serve as a member of the inaugural Board of Directors
of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, as a renowned leader in the labor community, MR. RAMIREZ brought invaluable insight to the Health
System Board and the leadership team and skillfully balanced the interests of and labor to the betterment
of both; and

WHEREAS, MR. RAMIREZ played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new governance structure of the
Health System, which demanded a considerable time commitment from its volunteer Board members; and

WHEREAS, MR. RAMIREZ was a part of the inaugural board which recognized the need to recruit and retain highly
quali?ed healthcare leaders and was instrumental in putting a leadership team in place to oversee the operations of the
nation?s third largest public health system; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, MR. RAMIREZ was a part of the governing body
that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision 2015, dedicated to continuing the Health
System?s mission of delivering integrated health services with dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in
today?s dramatically changing healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, MR. RAMIREZ was a part of the governing body
that shepherded in CountyCare, an Illinois Medicaid Demonstration Project and now a County Managed Care Community
Network, which to date has provided more than 100,000 Cook County residents with access to comprehensive healthcare;
and

WHEREAS MR. RAMIREZ graciously lent his vast expertise tenure

from 2008 through 2014, as the Vice Chair of the Health System Board Board?s

Finance and Human Resources committees; and m,
OCT 'c 1?..114

ed the genuine res ect of his fel ow Board



HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held MR. RAMIREZ in 15 strength and
support, as well as his ability to lead with integrity, objectivity and good humor.

    
   
   

WHEREAS during his tenure with the Health System, MR. RAMIREZ 
members for his keen insight, attention to detail, and knowledge in the areas

 

   

apprec1ate 

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, does hereby gratefully acknowledge JORGE
RAMIREZ for his extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the mission of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System.

Approved on October 3, 2014 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Page 13 of 34

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 3, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 34

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM VI.B. 
OCTOBER 3, 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS AS AMENDED
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Begins 
Fiscal impact not  Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#
to exceed:

Execute Contract
$375,000.00 
1

Supplemental Health Care

Service ‐ professional services

Page 15 of 34

$775,000.00 System

2

   
 
     

Toni Preckwinkle Cook County Health Hospitals System

President Board Members
Board of commissioners NI. Hill Hammock . Chairman
John Jay Shannon, MD 4 - Commissioner Jerry Butler - Vice Chairman
Chief Executive O?icer David Carvalho
Cook County Health Hospitals System Lewis M. 
Ada Mary Gugenhcim
Wayne M. Lemar, DPH, FACHE
Rev. Calvin S. Mania, 
Luis Mu?oz, MD, MPH
Jorge Ramirez
Carmen Velasquez
Dorcae P. Wiese, 
September 30, 2014

To: Deborah Santana, Secretary to the Board
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

From: Gina Besenhofer, System Director, Supply Chain Management
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Re: Correction Memo

Supplemental Health Care

H14-25-088
The Board Approval Request for the above named service will be presented to the Board of Directors of
Cook County Health and Hospitals System for approval on October 3, 2014. Corrections are
necessary in the FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED section. It should read:

FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED:
$775,000.00

As we?ve negotiated the contract language with Supplemental Health Care our required scope from the
RFP has changed. The contract language and associated not to exceed cost better reflects our needs.

If additional information is needed, please feel free to contact me.

Thank you.

 

0 Ambulatory 8; community Heallh Network 0 ?ea-malt Heal": Services 9 Cool: County o? PM: Health 0

0 John H. Shoger, Jr. Hospital 0 Oak Forest Health 1% 5%?de Hespilul 0 Rail-I M. CORE Celsiu- 0

 

 
 

15575151? 

Cook County Health Home System

   

Toni Preckwinkie

 

President 3%?33 BoardMembers
Cook Camry Board of Commissioners CCH M. Hill Hammock Chairman
John Jay, Shannon, MI) Commissioner Jerry Butler - Vice Chairman
Grief Executive Ol?ocr Lewis Collens
Cook-County Health Hospitals System Ric Estrada
Ada Mary Gugenheim
Emilie N. lungs
Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, PACHB
Carmen Velasquez
Donna Wiese, 

December 3, 2014

To: Deborah Santana, Secretary to the Board
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

 
 
 

From: Gina Besenhofer, System Director, Supply Chain Management
Cook County Health and Hosoitals System

Re: Correction Memo
Supplemental Health Care
H14-25-088

The Board Approval Request for The Olenik Consulting Group, LLC was approved by the Cook County
Health Hospitals System Board of Directors on October 3, 2014. The transmittal contained the

incorrect Contract Period.
The transmittal should read:
CONTRACT PERIOD
12I01I2014 thru 11/30/2015

if additional information is needed, please feel free to contact me.

Thank you.

 

 

Anibal-hr, Commonily Roman-I: 6 ??nal: Hoailli Services 0 Cook County new of MB: Halls 0
0 John ll. Show, .51. Heath! 0 Oak Forest Health Costel- ?1 grog?! Hospital 0 lull: Relishin CORE Confer '1
age 0

Cook County Health Hospitals System

AS AMENDED
BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST



   
   
 

    
  
 

PONSR:
NIA

 
  
 

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:
Gladys Lopez, Chief Human Resources Officer 

 
  

 

 

   

DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:

09125/2014 Service Professional Services

TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:

Execute Contract - Supplemental Health Care, Chicago, IL

ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT FUNDED I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-260 

CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
When-99W WE 

COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

RFP

NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

      
 

 

    
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
       
 

 

 

    
 

 

   

 

       
 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
5 There is no prior contract history.

 
 
     
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
This request is to enter into a contract with Supplemental Health Care to provide on-site personnel to assist Cook
County Health and Hospitals System operational leaders with coordinating and conducting behavioral-
based interviews of candidates to fill vacancies. There is a short term need for additional on-site personnei to work
i with communicate effectively with hiring managers, manage the process and paperwork as well as coordinate and

work with Human Resources to ensure vacancies are filled as expeditiously as possible. I

 
       
   
     
 

TERMS OF REQUEST: 
This is a request to execute contract number in an amount not to exceed . as needed, for a
period of twelve (12) months from thru Illa/IQ

    
 
 
 

 
 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Pending

warm 

i John Cookinh?a FingnciaTO?icer 
OCT 03 2014

  

     
 
   
 

CEO: 

 

 

 

. CARD OF
John Jay Shannon, M.D., Otis/f5): O?I??cer BY ETHE COOK COUNTY
1 - 0? DWATISHOSPITALS SYSTEM

    
 
 

 

Request 

 
 

Ambulatory Community Health Network Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health .
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Heaith Center . Provident Hospital Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center .

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 

Page 18 of 34

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 3, 2014

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 19 of 34

 THE COUNTY OF COOK

Asset Marketing Plan – October 2014

Page 20 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

 Table of Contents
Section

I.

Overview

II. Proposed Governance Structure
III. Asset Market Contracting Process
IV. Program Revenue Structure
V. Program Manager Commission Structure

VI. Proposed Vendor Experience
VII.Current Asset Marketing Programs within County
VIII.Next Steps

Page 21 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

1

 Overview
• Cook County has significant real estate and public-facing assets
• The Asset Marketing Program will leverage these assets for potential revenue
generation, provided that:
•

The proposed use is consistent with the character of County-owned property

•

Serves the public interest

• Proposed consultant selected via competitive RFP to serve as Program Manager
• The Program Manager will oversee the development & execution of revenue
generating strategies that may include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Advertising
Signage
Corporate Sponsorship
Point of Purchase Opportunities (e.g. vending machines, kiosks etc.)
Product or service tie-ins
Franchises, concessions
Placement of communication or other technology
Page 22 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

2

 Proposed Project Governance Structure
Ordinance &
Contract Approval

Cook County Board of Commissioners
Forest Preserve Board of Commissioners

Asset Marketing
Program Approval

All initiatives are reviewed and approved
by the Asset Marketing Committee

Content/PR
Approval

All content and PR is approved by the
Asset Marketing Committee

Revenue and Audit report annually to County
Board of Commissioners

Revenue and
Audit

Asset Marketing Committee:

•
•
•
•
•

County Chief Financial Officer
One representative from the County Health and Hospital System
Representatives of the County Board President
One representative from each Separately Elected Official that chooses to participate
One representative from the Forest Preserve District

Page 23 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

3

 Asset Marketing Contracting Process

Program Participants

Advertising
Special Events
Concessions

Program Manager

Asset Marketing
Committee

Tie-Ins
Sponsorships

Page 24 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

4

 Program Revenue Structure
All program revenue deposited in:
• County General Fund
• Forest Preserve Fund
• Health Fund

Program revenue aggregated and
annual vendor commission calculated

Net revenue generated will help
participating departments meet
budget target
Page 25 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

5

 Program Manager Commission Structure
• Program Launch: Flat fee of $ 200,000 from gross proceeds:
• 80% to Program Manager until flat fee is paid- 20% to County
• 20% commission thereafter- 80% to County
• Ongoing: $ 35,000 annual retainer charged after program launch completion:
• 80% to Program Manager until retainer is paid- 20% to County
• 20% commission thereafter- 80% to County

Page 26 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

6

 Proposed Vendor Experience

Representative
Clients include:

• National expert specializing in valuation and Corporate Sponsorships for
municipally-owned public assets and infrastructure
• Focus on municipalities, facilities, parks, universities and transportation systems
• Experience: 19 Years of developing Naming Rights strategies and sponsorship
programs for municipalities across the nation:
• City of Miami Beach 10 year/$7 million sponsorship with Coca-Cola
• Chicago Metra $ 1 million system-wide defibrillator sponsorship
• Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority over $ 11 million in naming
rights and station underwriting sponsorships since 2006
Page 27 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

7

 Current asset marketing within Cook County
• Cook County Assessor’s Office: Website

• Cook County Treasurer’s Office: Property tax bill mailing insert advertisement

• Cook County Clerk’s Office: Online Commemorative Certificate Store and
genealogy site.
• Cook County Sheriff’s Office: Cook County jail garden

Page 28 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

8

 Next Steps
• Finalize ordinance and contract
• Meet with County Stakeholders to introduce the initiative
• Present to County Board and Forest Preserve District Board for approval of
ordinance and agreement – introduction at October Board meeting

• Formulation of the Asset Marketing Committee
• Kickoff meeting with Program Manager
• Review and approve:
• Preliminary assessment and marketing plan
• Program procedures and reporting plan
• Risk management and minimization plan

• Implementation of Asset Marketing Program

Page 29 of 34

Preliminary Draft in Advance of Policy Formulation

9

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 3, 2014

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 30 of 34

 COOK COUNTYHEALTH
8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OCTOBER 3, 2014

 

Under the leadership of Drs. Urjeet Patel, Thomas Lad, and Gianluca Lazzaro, the Cancer Committee of
Stroger Hospital received a three year accreditation from the American College of Surgeon's
Commission on Cancer. The Commission on Cancer is the only multi-disciplinary cancer accreditation
program in the United States and focuses on patient-centered care, outcomes and education and training.
Our cancer program has been accredited for over 12 years, a testament to the amazing work our team does
on behalf of our patients.

- The Cook County Department of Public Health has been awarded a $2.4 million Partnerships to
Improve Community Health grant. This funding will be used to expand implementation of
evidence-based interventions leading to organizational-, community- and county-wide, population
improvements that reduce the burden of chronic disease with a priority focus on areas of high need to
address increasing health and social inequity in suburban Cook County.

- has kicked off its annual ?u vaccination program for employees and patients. Employee Health
Services has scheduled clinics throughout the system at times convenient to all shifts. Flu vaccine is
required for all employees except for those who provide veri?able documentation of a medical or
religious exemption. Regular reports will monitor staff participation. Patients will also be offered the ?u
shot in all clinical settings. Daily and weekly reports will monitor patient participation.

0 As a service to our patients, we will be operating ?business as usual? System-wide on Friday, November
28, 2014. As a result, the County Shutdown Day scheduled for Friday, November 28, 2014 WILL NOT apply
to the Cook County Health Hospitals System.

0 infection control providers have been monitoring the Ebola situation very closely. We have
protocols and processes in place to ensure maximum protection of patients, employees and visitors to our
facilities in the event a suspect or confirmed case presents. All staff have received Ebola information
and those in areas that would be impacted have been trained and briefed. This morning?s Department of
Medicine Grand Rounds provided attendees with in-depth information about both the current situation and
preparedness efforts. Health System leadership in Infectious Disease, Emergency Medicine and
Critical Care are coordinating with colleagues in public health and emergency preparedness to be at full
readiness. We are confident that should a suspect or confirmed case present, we are prepared.

Page 31 of 34

Legislative Update

Local

has been working with the Cook County Office of Capital Planning on a redevelopment plan for the
Central Campus. An RFP for the core medical needs is expected to be issued in the near future. In addition,
the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development, in partnership with the Chicago Architecture
Foundation, recently kicked off a two week open ideas workshop charrette to generate feedback and ideas
about the potential future of the old Cook County Hospital building. Presentation of the charrette results
and a panel discussion is scheduled for Tuesday, October 7.

President Preckwinkle is expected to introduce her FY2015 Executive Budget Recommendation to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in October. Once introduced, the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System will be scheduled to appear before the Cook County Finance Committee to present FY2015
Proposed Budget and respond to questions from Commissioners. The Cook County Board of
Commissioners is expected to approve the FY2015 Annual Appropriation Ordinance prior to November 30,
2014.

On October 8, the Cook County Board Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee will meet to
consider the appointments of Keith Bevans, Ricardo Estrada, Ada Mary Gugenheim, and Emilie Iunge to the
Cook County Health Hospitals System Board.

October 8 is the next regular meeting of the Cook County Board.

On October 15, the Cook County Board Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee will
conduct a public hearing pursuant to a Resolution sponsored by Commissioner Fritchey, on the status of
mental health in Cook County and the associated costs.

On October 16, will participate in the Chicago Medical Society?s Mini-Internship Program which
matches legislators and civic leaders with physicians for one day in an effort to provide a deeper
understanding of the workings of a medical institution and the impact of legislation on the healthcare
delivery system. CC HHS has participated in the program in the past hosting State Representatives Sara
Feigenholtz and Constance Howard. This year has been matched with Aldermen Walter Burnett
and Debra Mell.

State

participated in the Illinois Medical District Commission IMD day last month. Dr. Shannon
participated in a panel discussion on translational research.

An October 15 Legislative Committee hearing on the State's 1115 Medicaid Waiver application has been
canceled. No future meeting date has been identi?ed at this time.

Veto Session is scheduled for November 19?21, 2014 and December 2?4, 2014.
Federal

Dr. Shannon and Chairman Hammock accompanied President Preckwinkle to Washington DC. recently to
meet with members of the Illinois Congressional delegation. Meetings were held with Senator Durbin,
Congressman Davis, Congresswoman Duckworth, Congresswoman Kelly, Congressman Rush, and
Congresswoman Schakowsky. Issues of concern to discussed included the Health Resources and
Service Administration?s (HRSA) Section 3403 Discount Drug Program and the National Health Service
Corps Loan Repayment Program.

2 Page

Page 32 of 34

 

Earlier this week, Dr. Shannon, along with other local hospital CEO's and members of America's Essential
Hospitals met with Senator Durbin to discuss issues of concern to Illinois safety net hospitals including the
scheduled reduction in Medicaid DSH funding in 2017 and the 340B drug discount program.
Calendar of Events
0 Activities

October 9 28 Lunch sessions to train and prepare staff for an active shooter emergency

0 Select Community Outreach events:

October 3 Alderman Roberto Maldonado Health Fair at Mozart Park

October 4-18 Latin American Health Weeks at the Mexican Consulate and other sites

October 8-9 Mental Health Wellness Fair on at the James Thompson Center

October 18 Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center Health Fair at St. Agnes Church

October 18 Providence Missionary Baptist Church Health Fair at 8401 S. Ashland

October 25 Rainbow Push Coalition Health Fair at Rainbow Push Headquarters
Employee Recognition

Though not employees, Civic Consulting Alliance fellows Ben Hanessian and Marcus Paschall have been
working with the Ambulatory and Community Health Network on the consolidation of services from throughout
the campus into the Building to provide a better experience for our patients.

The 5th Annual Health 8; Medicine Policy Research Group has announced its 2014 award winners honoring work
that exempli?es the mission to promote social justice and challenge inequities in health and health care.
James W. Collins, Jr., MD, MPH, Ann Robert H. Lurie Children?s Hospital of Chicago and Richard David, MD, John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County are being honored for their groundbreaking epidemiological studies to
explore the impact of race and racism on the health and well-being of women and infants, particularly in the
United States. The formal awards presentation will occur on October 14th.

Research shows that risk-based targeted HIV testing often misses people who are HIV positive. It is currently
estimated that 60% of young people ages 13-24 who are infected with HIV are unaware. Project HAT (HIV
Accessible Testing) was created to develop strategies to improve HIV testing throughout Efforts to educate
patients and de-stigmatize and routinize HIV testing behaviors have been implemented in the Pediatric ED and
early results show a 12% increase in testing. Under the leadership of Marisol Gonzales and Dr. Lisa Henry-Reid,
efforts toward normalizing HIV screening similar to diabetes and cholesterol testing are ongoing.

The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center participated in the thirteenth annual AIDS Run Walk Chicago. The event
welcomed more than 3,000 runners, walkers and volunteers to raise more than $380,000 for 32 organizations that
support people living with Under the leadership of Kathi Braswell, Drs. David Barker and Maya
Green, Keisha French and Keishawanda Brown Team CORE raised nearly $17,000 capturing 5th place in team
fundraising.

3 Page

Page 33 of 34

 

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

Ebola Fact Sheet

Will we see a case of Ebola?

The first US diagnosis of Ebola occurred this week in Dallas, Texas. It should be expected that more cases will be
diagnosed in the US and it is possible that we will see a patient with Ebola in one of our facilities. The appropriate teams
have been meeting for several weeks and we are confident that we will be able to safely care for such a patient, just as
we care for patients with transmissible diseases every day.

Risk factors for Ebola

contact with blood or other body fluids or human remains of a patient known to have or suspected to have
Ebola;

residence in, or travel to, an area where Ebola transmission is active (Liberia, Guinea, Nigeria, Sierra Leone); or

direct handling of bats or non-human primates from disease-endemic areas.

Signs and of Ebola

Fever (greater than or Severe headache

Muscle pain Weakness

Diarrhea Vomiting

Abdominal pain Unexplained hemorrhage (bleeding or bruising)

may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to Ebola, but the average is 8 to 10 days. Based on
the data collected over the past few decades since Ebola was discovered, it is felt that it is not spread through casual
contact or through the air. Ebola is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids of a sick person or exposure to
objects such as needles that have been contaminated.

What is doing:

- We have a screening tool in place at all areas of patient entry into the hospitals and clinics.

We have trained triage personnel on early identification of a potentially infected patient.

We have the appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) available.

- We have identified appropriate medical Space for a potentially infected patient.

- We have identified the services that would be involved with patient care.

We are in close contact with the Chicago Department of Public Health and participate in the updates from the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

If you have questions, call Infection Control at 312-864-4581

10.14

Page 34 of 34

