Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, August 16, 2016 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Wayne M.
Lerner, DPH, LFACHE (3)
Board Chairman M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Emilie N. Junge
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (non-Director Member)

Absent:

Director Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory
Services
Krishna Das, MD – Chief Quality Officer
Jeff McCutchan – Interim General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
C. Culture of Safety Survey – Stroger 2015 (Attachment #2)
Dr. Krishna Das, Chief Quality Officer, provided information on three (3) regulatory and accreditation matters.
She stated that the administration was just notified that Stroger Hospital’s stroke program certification visit will
take place next Wednesday; this is a one (1) day survey for certification as a primary stroke center. Staff
continue their preparations for the Ambulatory survey by The Joint Commission; it will be conducted
approximately three to four months from now. The administration is also expecting a survey by the College of
American Pathology of the laboratories at Stroger Hospital; it is anticipated that the visit will take place
sometime in the fall.
With regard to metrics relating to patient satisfaction, Lerner requested that Committee receive a report on the
open-ended comments provided by patients in response to the patient survey. Dr. Das responded that this can
be done.
With regard to the metrics on immunizations of children, Dr. Das stated that several initiatives are being
structured to improve the rates. She will ask the pediatricians to analyze the metrics to ascertain the reason(s)
for the rate decline and will report back to the Committee.

Page 1 of 79

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, August 16, 2016
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
Director Driscoll inquired regarding whether data is available on diabetic patients, for example, who show up in
the emergency room or who have been hospitalized in the past year. Dr. Das stated that this question has been
discussed, but it has been a challenge to define what would be considered “existing” patients. With regard to
the question of how many patients are in ACHN and are enrolled in some form of primary care who show up at
the emergency room or in the hospital, Dr. Das indicated that those numbers should be available; she will follow
up and report back to the Committee.
Dr. Das reviewed the Culture of Safety Survey presentation, which included information on the following
subjects:









Joint Commission Standard
Culture of Safety Dimensions
CCHHS Survey Results
o Tenure in Hospital
o Staff Position
o Mean Scores
o Domain Scores
o Priority Index Scores
Characteristics of a Safe Culture
Trust-Report-Improve Cycle
Number Events Reported 12 Months
Future Directions

During the discussion of the information, Dr. Das provided additional details on the administration’s efforts to
increase the rate of response. Director Lerner inquired regarding whether written surveys are available for
those employees who are not computer-savvy. Dr. Das responded in the negative, but stated that this is a good
idea. Director Lerner suggested that the administration consider the idea of setting up kiosks in certain areas for
employees to use to complete the survey; additionally, he suggested that the administration look at the response
rate by shift, as this can provide further insight and information.
IV.

Action Items
A. Approval of 2016 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County (presentation on the subject was received in February 2016) (Attachment #3)
Dr. Das provided a brief overview of the proposed 2016 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement
Plan for Stroger Hospital. She noted that the Committee previously received information on the subject at its
meeting in February but did not receive the full text of the Plan at that time. It is expected that the Provident
Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan will be presented in the near future.
Included in the presentation was information on the following subjects:







Goals of a Quality Program;
Regulatory Standards;
Organization of the Quality Program;
Inpatient Quality 2015;
Outpatient Quality 2015;
Patient Safety 2015;
Page 2 of 79

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, August 16, 2016
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A. Approval of 2016 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County (continued)










Patient Experience 2015;
Ensuring Accountability;
Improve Culture of Safety;
Requirements for Quality Indicators;
Dashboard Categories;
Key Performance Indicators;
Reports to Hospital Quality Committee;
Structure and Members of Quality Committee; and
Quality Reporting.

During the discussion of the presentation, additional information was presented regarding health risk
assessments and population health management. Debra Carey, Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory Services,
stated that health risk assessments are conducted on all of the patients who come to the ACHN clinics. The
assessment includes not only the clinical aspect, but also includes the assessment of social determinants of
health, such as housing. Staff are currently in the process of developing a report of these results. This year’s
initial assessment will provide a baseline for ACHN; each year, there will be an update to that assessment.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to approve the 2016 Quality
Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
There were no reports received from EMS Presidents at this meeting.
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Reappointments/Changes relating to Stroger Hospital medical staff
action items. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Reappointments/Changes relating to Provident Hospital medical staff
action items. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, July 19, 2016
Chairman Gugenheim, seconded by Director Lerner, moved to accept the Minutes
of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of July 19, 2016. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

Page 3 of 79

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, August 16, 2016
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
The Committee did not recess the open meeting and convene in a closed meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chairman

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 79

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting
August 16, 2016

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 79

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH
& HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CCHHS Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Dashboard Overview
16 August 2016
Krishna Das, MD, Chief Quality Officer

1

Page 6 of 79

CCHHS Board QPS Committee

 Quality Stroger

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QPS Committee Dashboard
Data as of Bf12f15 (320?15 (212016
momma: MEASURES o2 aim-15 {13 2-315 {14 aim-15 {11 2015 {12 2915
TARGET VARIANCE 
June Juli?r Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr June-
Stroger
Core Measures
Venous Thromhoembolism Prevention Unliker Venous Thromboemholism Prevention 8: Treatment {56Care for Stroke Patients Influenza and Pneumococcal Vaccination Ef?ciency - Operating Room
Begins at Scheduled Time 50Room Turn Around Time (minutesLEGEND
Daia represents automated collectlon
Variance is target to recent month
HIS: Not Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Page 7 of 79 .
Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

Quality Provident

CC HHS QPS Committee Dashboard

Data as of CY 2615 C'fl?l?
PERFORMANCE MEASURES [12 Z?l? {13 21315 {14 Z?l? {11 2915 {12 Z?l?

 

 

 

TARGET 
June Julv Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr l'ii'lav June

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Provident

Core Measures

Venous Thromhoemholism (VTE) Prevention Dnlijir 100 100 94 94 100 100 89 99 49%
Venous Thromhoemholism Prevention 8: Treatment {964996
Influenza and Pneumococcal Vaccinations {96Efficiency - Operating Room

Surgerv Begins at Scheduled Time {96Room Turn Around Time {minutes} 39 na

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEGEND
Data represents automated collection
Variance is target to recent month
NJS: Not Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM



3 Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

Safety Stroger

(1P5 Committee Dashboard

Data as of 2:115 C'fl?l?
PERFORMANCE MEASURES 0.2 2915 {13 2915 {14 2915 [11 2915 0.2 2915

 

 

 

TARGET VARIANCE 
June Juhf Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr June

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Safety

HAC: Pressure Ulcer Stages Ill HAC: Falls with lniuryz HAI: CLABSI HAI: CAUTI CLABSI: Central line?associated bleed stream infectiens COOK COUNTY HEALTH
CAUTI: Catheter?associated urinawtract infections 5 pl TA SYST 
*?u'ariance istarget to recent full quarter CCI I I IS
Page 9 of 79

Board QPS Committee

Patient Experience Stroger

CC HHS QPS Committee Dashboard

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data as. of ef12f15 ?2:115 Milli}
momma MEASURES o2 2o15 (13 2015 on 2015 {11 2-315 0.2 2015
TARGET VARIANCE 
June Juhlr Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Mair June

Patient Experience

Willing to Recommend Hosp [96 top boxCommunication with Doctors {96 top boxCommunication with Nurses top boxCleanliness [96 top boxLEGEND

Daza represenzs automated collecnon
Variance is target to recent month
HIS: Not Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 79

 

Patient Experience Provident

CC HHS QPS Committee Dashboard

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data as of 
mommcs MEASURES 0.2 2015 0.3 2015 {14 2015 {11 2015 {12 2015
TARGET VARIANCE 
June J?hf Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Ma]! June
Patient Experience
Willing to Recommend Hosp {96 top box3'1 Nf5* 85
Communication with Doctors {95 top boxCommunication with Nurses {96 top boxCleanliness [96 top boxLEGEND

00:0 represenzs automated collecnon
Variance is target to recent month
NEE: Not Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Page 11 of 79 .
6 Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

ACHN

CC HHS Committee Dashboard

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data asof3312f16 
mot MEASURES {12 2915 {13 2-315 {14 2015 {11 2915 0.2 2615
TARGET VARIANCE 
June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May June

ACHN

Diabetes Control 1with th AllImmunizations: Up to date in children at 24 months {96Patient Experience: Moving Through Visit Patient Experience: Telephone Access 46%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Page 12 of 79 .
Board QPS Committee

 

Board Quality Dashboard

Board Metrics - Qualitv

QPS Committee Dashboard

 

Data as of 3,112.12916

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PERFORMANCE MEASURES 2015 or 2015
TARGET 
2:115 3:115 4:115 1:115 2:115

Stroger
Core Measures Composite
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Univ 92 99 99 99%
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention 8: Treatment 96 96 93 99% 
Ej?j'iciencjir - Dperating Room 
Surgerv Begins at the Scheduled Time 59Safety Total of Events
Events: Ulcers, Falls, CLABSI and CAUTI 33 24 39 29 32
Patient Experience
Willing to Recommend Hosp 1% top box95% 
Provident
Core Measures
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Univ 94 96 99 99% 
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention 8: Treatment 95 9? 99 99% 
E??iciency - Operating Room 
Surgerv Begins at the Scheduled Time Patient Experience
Willing to Recommend Hosp 1% top box95% 
ACHN
Diabetes Control with A112'5 29% 
Patient Experience: Moving Through Visit 63 69 63 64 64 25%
Patient Experience: Telephone Access 61 69 63 62 69 25%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IEGEND
Ilene represen:5 aLi:ome:ecl collection
Variance i5 target to recent month
NIS: Not Sufficient data collected

 

 

Page 13 of 79

 

COOK 
HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting
August 16, 2016

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 79

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH
& HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Culture of Safety Survey

CCHHS Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Page 15 of 79

 Why Emphasize Culture of Safety?
• Continuous improvement requires a learning culture
• Staff reporting of safety events leads to opportunities
for improvement
• Staff must know they will not be punished for
reporting safety events
• When safety issues are resolved, reporters should
get feedback (and thanks!)

A Positive Culture = Patient Safety
Page 16 of 79

 Safety Culture and Patient Safety

Mardon et al. Dec 2010. Relation between safety culture and adverse events. J Pat Safety, 6(4):226-232
3

Page 17 of 79

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Safety Culture and Patient Satisfaction

Mardon et al. Dec 2010. Relation between safety culture and adverse events. J Pat Safety, 6(4):226-232
4

Page 18 of 79

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Joint Commission Standard



Leaders create and maintain a culture of safetv and gualitv throughout the hospital.

Rationale:

Safetyr and gualitv thrive in an environment that supports teamwork and respect for other people. regardless of their position
in the hospital. Leaders demonstrate their commitment to gualitv and set expectations for those who work in the hospital.
Leaders evaluate the culture on a regular basis.

Leaders encourage teamwork and create structures, processesr and programs that allow this positive culture to flourish.
Disruptive behavior that intimidates others and affects morale or staff turnover can be harmful to patient care. Leaders must
address disruptive behavior of individuals working at all levels of the hospital. including managementr clinical and
administrative staff, licensed independent practitioners. and governing bodv members.

Elements of Performance:

DE SCRIPTIDH HOS ER DDC 5C ESP

Leaders regularlv evaluate the culture of safetv and gualitv using valid and 
reliable tools.

Leaders prioritize and implement changes identified bv the evaluation. .5.

Leaders provide opportunities for all individuals who work in the hospital to .51.
participate in safetyr and gualitvr initiatives.

 

 

 


l-?We {9



?The. way we do Things around here?

Beliefs, values norms

Shared by staff

 
       

Exists at
multiple
levels:

 

 

 

 

 

System

 

 

 
    
  

Organization

       
 

What is

- Rewarded
- Supported
. Expected



Department

  
   
     

Unit

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Page200f79
entatio nieTtl noF oet raelDt

 

Culture of Safety Survey

- Communication Openness

- Feedback/Communication About Errors
- Frequency of Events Reported

- Ha ncloffs and Transitions

- Hospital Management Support

CuItu re of Safety - Non-Punitive Response to Error
- - . Organizational Learning
DIITIEFISIOFIS - Overall Perception of Safety*
- Overall Ratings*
- Staf?ng

. Teamwork Across Units
. Teamwork Within Units*
. Your Supervisor/Manager

 

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
a. HOSPITALS SYSTEM



Presentation Title in Footer Date

 

 

Page 21 of 79

 

CCHHS Survey
Survey
Completed

• December2015

844 responses across
the system = 11%
Fifty Eight
Questions

Eight
Survey
Sections

8

Page 22 of 79

• 13 Dimensions

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Tenure in Hospital

 

Question Last Period This PE rind

Response 11 96 91': Last Period This Period
How long worked in this ho?pital

I Less Ihan 1 year 26 3

1 to E- yeara 2-15 29

I 6 to 11:1 years 133 113

11 to 15year5 131:1 115

I 1131:: 21:1 years 9? 12

I 21 years or more EDE- 24

Total 83?

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Presentation Title in Footer Date

 

Page 23 of 79

 

Staff Position

 

 

Duestiun Last Period This Periud
Response :1 '13 93 Last Perind This Period

What is y3ur staff p33iti3n
I RM 133 24
PNNF 34 3
I 313551 Pharm 34 3
I Diet 4 1
H33 2 3
I 3111;03:312- 13 3
Adegt 33 13
I Other 1-Tut-3  333

 

 

 

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
3 HOSPITALS SYSTEM

HS

Presentation Title in Footer Date

 

10 Page 24 of 79

 

Mean Scores – CCHHS
Mean Score
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
All CCHHS

11

ACHN

Stroger

Page 25 of 79

Provident

Cermak

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Domain Scores – CCHHS
CCHHS Score
OVERALL SYSTEM RATINGS

61.1

HANDOFFS AND TRANSITIONS

50.7

TEAMWORK AMONG UNITS

52.9

MANAGEMENT SUPPORT

57.1

STAFFING

51.7

NON-PUNITIVE RESPONSE TO ERROR

44.3

FEEDBACK ABOUT ERROR

59.1

COMMUNICATION OPENNESS

58.3

TEAMWORK WITHIN UNITS

61.1

ORGANIZATIONAL LEARNING

59.7

SUPERVISOR/MANAGER EXPECTATIONS

61.1

FREQUENCY OF EVENTS REPORTED

59.8

OVERALL PERCEPTION OF SAFETY

54.9
0

12

10

20

Page 26 of 79

30

40

50

60

70

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Priority Index Scores
Priority Index Question

Dimension

Priority
Index

Periods in
Top 10

1

We are given feedback about changes put into place based on events

Feedback/Communica

75

1

2

I would feel safe being treated as a patient here.

Overall Ratings

72

1

3

After we make changes we evaluate their effectiveness.

Org. Learning

67

1

4

Hospital units do not coordinate well with each other.

Teamwork Across Units

66

1

5

Hospital management provides a climate of patient safety.

Hospital Management

64

1

6

Staff feel free to question the decisions of those with more authority.

Communication

63

1

7

Overall, the culture at this facility encourages patient safety.

Overall Ratings

62

1

8

My supervisor considers staff suggestions to improve patient safety.

Supervisor/Manager

61

1

9

I would recommend [this facility] to my friends and relatives.

Overall Ratings

60

1

10

Hospital units work well together to provide care for patients.

Teamwork Across Units

58

1

13

Page 27 of 79

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Priority Index

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Internal Priority Index oombines information about your system's perton'nanoe and the relative importance of each question to respondents'
overall assessment of safety culture. Higher pnorily is given to those issues that are relatively important to respondents thigh oorrelation ooe?ioients}
and that you soored low on (low mean scorm}- Questions are listed in decreasing priority. F'ay particular attention to questions that are consistently
among your top ten priorities- Questions that are among this period '5 top ten priorities appear in boid itaiios in this and previous sestions ot
the report.
Current Previous Periods Mean GorreIation
Under Order Top 10 Question Score Goettioient Priority Index
1 - 1 Get teedpaotr about oitanges see {as} at {as} T5
2 - 1 Feet sate being treated as patient 56-2 {25} 3'2 {44} To
3 - 1 Start question o?eoisions 50-2 {38} .61 {30] 31] EH
3 - 1 Units coordinate with each oti'ter?a 42-9 {45} -53 {22} 22 ea
5 - 1 Evaioate patient safety improvemnts 55-6 -66 {39} so
IE - 1 Recommend to friend's, relatives 53-5 {21} .69 134
i' - 1 Mistakes have test to pos onanges see {as} .51 {as} E1
- 1 Supr?t-tgr consider staff suggestions 53.5 .68 {41} o1
- 1 Hosp manage promotes pt safetyr 5114 {16} -7'3 {451 I 131
i" - 1 Cutture enoourages patient satietyr ?ll? {14} It? I o1

 

 

 

COOK 
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

W28 CCH HS

14 Presentation Title in Footer Date

 

Characteristics of a Safe Culture
•
•
•
•
•
•

15

Shared understanding – shared purpose
Behavioral standards – uniformly applied
Just environment – ‘just culture’
Open communication – top <- -> bottom
Leadership support – ‘walk the talk’
Reports adverse events and ‘near misses’

Page 29 of 79

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Trust-Report-lmprove Cycle

Leadership

Performance Improvement

 

 

 

Safety Cultug?eeso of 79

 

Number Events Reported 12 Months

 

Question Last Period This Period

Flesponse ?It. at: Last Period This Period
Number of events reported 12 months

I No event reports 456 56

1 to 2 events 226 23

I 3 to 5 events as 11

on: 1o events 19 2

I 11 to 21) events 1? 2

I 21 events or more 8 1

Total 812

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM



Page 31 of 79 . .
17 Presentation TItle In Footer Date

 

Future Directions
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

18

Safety huddles on all units
Management training on just culture principles
Recognition for staff who report safety events
Process for feedback to reporters
Departmental RCAs to involve more personnel
Structured performance improvement initiatives
Leadership walk rounds

Page 32 of 79

Presentation Title in Footer I Date

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting
August 16, 2016

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 33 of 79

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH
& HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CCHHS Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Quality Plan 2016 Overview
16 August 2016
Krishna Das, MD, Chief Quality Officer

Page 34 of 79

 Goals of a Quality Program
• To continually improve quality processes and outcomes
and to comply with law and regulations guiding quality
data submission
• To improve patient safety and to comply with laws
regarding safety event evaluation and reporting
• To assure successful accreditation and certification
• To create value for the organization
• ‘The primary function of a quality department is to
decrease variation through the identification and
reduction of defects’*
*IHI/NAHQ Quality Structures and Functions at Half the Expense 2013
2

Page 35 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Regulatory Standards
• CMS 42 CFR 482.21
– The hospital must develop, implement and maintain an
effective, ongoing, hospital-wide, data-driven quality
assessment and performance improvement program

• Joint Commission LD.01.03.01 and LD.04.04.01
– The governing body is ultimately accountable for the
safety and quality of care, treatment and services
– Leaders establish priorities for performance
improvement
3

Page 36 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Organization of the Quality Program
Functions
• Patient safety
• Patient experience
• Patient complaints and
grievances
• Performance
improvement
• Data submission/ data
integrity
• Accreditation/policies
4

Facilities
• Hospitals
– Stroger
– Provident

• Ambulatory
– Primary care
– Subspecialty

• CCDPH
• Correctional Health
• CountyCare

Page 37 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Ensuring Accountability
• Local leaders report on local performance and
lead improvement efforts
• Existing committee structures are used for
reporting data and provide governance
• Support leaders with quality data specific to
their areas of authority
• Support leaders with guidance on
performance improvement methods
9

Page 38 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Improve Culture of Safety
• Continue to educate staff throughout system on
approach to analysis of safety events
• Encourage and reward reporting
• Continue and expand safety briefings
• Engage additional staff in event analysis and
demonstrate just-culture concepts
• Process improvement efforts are shared with
staff
• Leadership visibility in patient safety efforts
10

Page 39 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Requirements for Quality Indicators
• Each quality indicator is related to improved health
outcomes
• The scope of data collection is appropriate to the
indicator
• The source and method of data collection is specified
in advance
• Audits of data collection are performed
• Indicators are compared to appropriate benchmarks
• Performance improvement projects reflect high risk,
high volume or problem prone areas or activities.
11

Page 40 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Dashboard Categories
• Key performance indicators, inpatient services
• Key performance indicators, ambulatory services
• Indicators reported to CMS and The Joint Commission
• Nursing quality measures and NDNQI (National Database
of Nursing Quality Indicators) data
• Case management and utilization management data
• Patient experience and patient complaints and grievances
• Medical staff committee indicators
• Reporting group dashboards – service line specific
dashboards to support collaboration in performance
improvement
12

Page 41 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Key Performance Indicators
Baseline
Q3 2015

Target

50th %ile2

90th %ile

Operating Room:
OR on-time starts (%)

47

80

64

88

Quarterly

Operating Room:
OR room turnaround
time (minutes)

47 min

35 min

29

23

Quarterly

Core Measure:
VTE Prophylaxis
General Care

89

99

88

99

Quarterly

Prevention:
Influenza Vaccination

75

90

93

100

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Recommend the
Hospital

69

84.7

72.4

84.7

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Communication with
Nurses is ‘good’

69

85.7

79.5

85.7

Quarterly

Fall rate/ falls with
injury

0.6

25%
reduction

-

-

Quarterly

Hospital Acquired
Pressure Ulcers

0.6

25%
reduction

-

-

Quarterly

Hospital Indicator1

13

Page 42 of 79

Reporting
Interval

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Reports to Hospital Quality Committee
Reporting Group

Departments or Divisions

Committees or Workgroups

Joint Commission Chapter

Perioperative

Surgery, Anesthesia, Ob-Gyne

OR Committee, NSQIP+

NPSG*

Medication Management

Pharmacy

Environment of Care

Environmental, Police, B&G, CE

Drug & Formulary, Medication
Safety,
Environment of Care

Infection Control

Infection Control, OR/SPD, Nursing

Infection Control

Medication Mgmt and
NPSG
EOC, Life Safety, Emergency
Mgmt
Infection Control

Critical Care/ Emergency Response Critical Care (various), Palliative Care

14

Critical Care, Resuscitation,
Bioethics
Stroke, Diabetes, Immunization,
NSQIP
Capacity Management

Provision of Care

General Med-Surg

Family Medicine, Medicine, Surgery

Provision of Care

Emergency Services
Women and Children

EM, Trauma/Burn, Nursing
Pediatrics, Ob/Gyne

Behavioral Health

Psychiatry, Nursing

Bioethics

Provision of Care, Pt Rights

Diagnostic Testing

Pathology

Surgical Function Review, IT

Performance Improvement

Radiology/Radiation Safety

Radiology

Nursing Services

Nursing

Provision of Care
Provision of Care

NPSG
Nursing Quality

Nursing, Provision of Care

Hospital Information Management HIM
(HIM)
Patient Experience of Care
All

HIM, IT
Patient Experience Council

Record of Care and
Information Mgmt
Patient Rights

Case Management and Utilization
Management
Graduate Medical Education

Utilization Management

Provision of care

Case Management
GME

Page 43 of 79

GMEC

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Structure of Quality Committee
Emerg
Services

General
MedSurg

Infect
Control

CritCare
Emer
Resp

Case
Mgmt

Rad &
Rad
Safety

Behav
Health

Quality
Improvement and
Patient Safety
Committee

Nursing
Care

Hosp
Infor
Mgmt

Periop
Services

Diag Test
Lab

Patient
Exp of
Care

Med
Mgmt
Environ
of Care

15

Medical
Educ

Page 44 of 79

Women
and
Children

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Members of Quality Committee
President, Executive Medical Staff
Executive Medical Director
Medical Department Chairs
Executive Director of Nursing
Chief Quality Officer
COO Hospital Based Services
COO Ambulatory Services
Director of Quality, Ambulatory Services
Associate Executive for Nursing (Stroger Hospital)
Director of Health Information (System)
Director of Patient Experience (System)
Director of Pharmacy (System)
Director of Infection Control (System)
Director of Supply Chain
16

Page 45 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 Quality Reporting
Board of Directors
CCHHS

Board QPS
Committee

Executive Medical
Staff Stroger
Hospital

Quality
Committee
Stroger Hospital

Executive Medical
Staff Provident
Hospital

Cermak Health
Services Quality
Committee

Provident Quality
Committee

ACHN Quality
Council

17

Page 46 of 79

Quality Plan 2016 Overview

 CCHHS John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital
Quality Assessment and Performance
Improvement Plan

2016

Page 47 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital Quality Plan
Outline
I.

Introduction and Purpose

II.

Background and Scope

III.

Governance and Leadership
a. Role of the Governing Board
b. Role of the Executive Medical Staff
c. Role of the Hospitals Quality Committees
d. Role of the Quality Department and the Chief Quality Officer

IV.

Quality Metrics
a. Quality Dashboards
b. Requirements for Quality Indicators
c. Transparency
d. CMS Required Metrics
e. Medical Staff Committees
(a) Blood Bank Committee
(b) Cancer Committee
(c) Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees
(d) Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees
(e) Environment of Care Committee
(f) Infection Control Committee
(g) Operating Room Committee
(h) Surgical Function Review Committee
f. Data Abstraction
g. Data Analysis
h. Performance Targets

V.
VI.

Performance Improvement
Patient Safety; Transparency
a. Culture of Safety
b. Adverse and Sentinel Events
c. Event Awareness and Notification
d. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events
e. Event Resolution and Action Plans
f. Proactive Risk Assessments

VII.

Patient Experience and Patient Relations

VIII.

Confidentiality

2

Page 48 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

IX.

APPENDICES
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.

Appendix A: CMS Regulation for Quality Plan
Appendix B: Joint Commission Leadership Standards
Appendix C: Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards
Appendix D: Quality Reporting Structure
Appendix E: Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee
Appendix F: Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events
Appendix G: Key Quality Priorities Inpatient Services
Appendix H: CMS IQR Indicator and Joint Commission Indicators
Appendix I: Hospital Acquired Conditions
Appendix J: Medical Staff Committee and Departmental Reporting

3

Page 49 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS
Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 2015
I.

Introduction and Purpose: The Mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) is to deliver integrated health services with dignity and respect regardless of a
patient’s ability to pay; foster partnerships with other health providers and communities to
enhance the health of the public; and advocate for policies which promote and protect the
physical, mental and social well-being of the people of Cook County.
To support this mission, each entity in the System develops a Quality Assessment and
Performance Improvement Plan to specify its approach to quality improvement and to
specify key indicators for performance improvement, and to assure approval of the plan by
the leaders of the organization including the Board of Directors and the Executive Medical
Staff. The purpose of this document is to set forth the Quality Assessment and Performance
Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr. (‘Stroger Hospital’) for CY 2016.
‘Stroger Hospital’ includes the hospital itself, the hospital based clinics and all the clinics
included in the Ambulatory and Community Health Network which are registered under the
CCN number for Stroger Hospital.

II.

Background and Scope: A comprehensive quality improvement plan supports the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital’s goals to provide
excellent, high quality patient care and outlines the mechanisms to achieve this goal. The
plan fulfills requirement for the Conditions of Participation of the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) (APPENDIX A) and The Joint Commission (APPENDIX B and
APPENDIX C), the accrediting organization for the Hospital and the Health System. The plan
is to be approved by the governing body of CCHHS which is the Board of Directors, upon the
recommendation of its committee on Quality and Patient Safety, and upon approval by the
Executive Medical Staff of Stroger Hospital and System Leadership. By approving the plan,
the Board of Directors, the System Leadership and the Executive Medical Staff are:
a. Overseeing the quality and patient safety activities within the organization
b. Ensuring that the organization takes a proactive approach to planning for
patient safety and quality patient care
c. Ensuring that an integrated safety program exists within the organization
d. Setting priorities for performance improvement, evaluating the performance
improvement practices in the organization and ensuring that performance
improvement strategies and methodologies are implemented throughout the
organization
e. Ensuring data collection and monitoring in diverse areas as specified below
f. Ensuring that the hospital analyzes and compares the data it collects using
statistical techniques and that data and other information are used
systematically for decision making.
This plan reflects institutional quality priorities for FY 2016 for Stroger Hospital. The written
plan allows the Executive Medical Staff and the Board of Directors to ensure that the
4

Page 50 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s organization and services and involves all
departments and services. The plan enumerates quality indicators and together with the
Patient Safety Plan, describes the hospital’s process to prevent and reduce medical errors.
This plan provides direction for a hospital-wide, data driven quality assessment and
performance improvement program.
The structure of the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan is derived
from the Triple Aim enunciated by the national quality strategy within the Affordable Care
Act. This directs health care providers to improve the experience of care for individuals, to
assess and improve the care of populations and to lower per capita costs in health care. In
addition, as outlined by the Institute of Medicine Report, ‘To Err is Human’, quality
improvement efforts in health care should ensure that patient care is safe, timely, effective,
efficient, equitable and patient centered. Stroger Hospital is committed to addressing these
dimensions of quality within the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement plan.
III.

Governance and Leadership: Overall direction for the quality plan for Stroger Hospital is
provided by its governing body, the Board of Directors; by the medical staff through its
elected representatives, the Executive Medical Staff Committee; and by the leadership of
CCHHS. The plan is to be approved by the Executive Medical Staff Committee of the
Hospital; and by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee and the Board of Directors of the
CCHHS. Quality and patient safety metrics are reported regularly as part of a quality and
safety dashboard to the Executive Medical Staff and the Board of Directors as described in
APPENDIX D.
Oversight for the implementation of the Quality Plan is provided by the Department of
Quality and Patient Safety led by the Chief Quality Officer and executed in collaboration
with departmental and medical staff quality committees, hospital and system leadership
and the System Departments of Risk Management, Legal, and Compliance.
The Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee provides oversight of the
Quality Program as well as the Patient Safety Program. The composition and leadership of
this committee is presented in APPENDIX E. This committee meets monthly and reviews all
quality metrics, departmental and committee quality data, patient safety data and
prioritizes performance improvement projects. The committee chair or designee reports
the activities of the committee to the Executive Medical Staff on a monthly basis. Quality
data are reported to the CCHHS Board of Directors on a monthly basis through its
committee on Quality and Patient Safety.

IV.

Quality Metrics: Quality measures are collected and reported to monitor quality of care; to
inform performance improvement activities; to report to federal, state and county
governments; for regulatory purposes and to support reimbursement and pay for
performance initiatives. This section describes the metrics, the methods of abstraction and
performance targets for FY 2016. The Board of Directors along with System Leadership and
the Executive Medical Staff set the priorities for data collection as well as the frequency of

5

Page 51 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

data collection. The Board of Directors assures adequate resources to accomplish data
acquisition and analyses required for the quality program.
a. Dashboards are created within the following categories.
i. Key performance indicators, inpatient services (APPENDIX G) : The Hospital
quality priorities are to improve access to care, demonstrate excellence in the
delivery of care and to improve patient satisfaction. The baseline measurement
is Q3 of 2015 and achievement will be assessed in Q3 of 2016. Data on progress
toward the targets will be reported monthly to the Board of Directors.
ii. Key performance indicators, ambulatory services: for further details please see
the ACHN Quality Plan
iii. Indicators reported to CMS and The Joint Commission (APPENDIX H and I)
iv. Nursing quality measures and NDNQI (National Database of Nursing Quality
Indicators) data
v. Case management and utilization management data
vi. Patient experience and patient complaints and grievances
vii. Medical staff committee indicators
viii. Reporting group dashboards – service line specific dashboards which include
several of the items from i. to vii. above and which support collaboration in
performance improvement (APPENDIX J)
b. Requirements for Quality Indicators:
i. Each quality indicator is related to improved health outcomes
ii. The scope of data collection is appropriate to the indicator
iii. The source and method of data collection is specified in advance
iv. Oversight (audits) of data collection methods are performed
v. Indicators are compared to appropriate benchmarks whenever these are
available
vi. Unit by unit comparisons are made whenever appropriate
vii. Performance improvement projects are selected from areas where quality
indicators reflect areas needing improvement
viii. Performance improvement projects reflect high risk, high volume or problem
prone areas or activities.
c. Transparency: CCHHS is committed to transparency in the abstraction and reporting of
quality metrics. These metrics, together with the performance targets set by the
leadership, are to be disseminated widely among leadership and staff and will be
available for viewing internally on the CCHHS website.
d. CMS Required Metrics: Under the inpatient quality reporting (IQR) program of CMS the
metrics are abstracted and reported on a quarterly basis to CMS. A subset of these
measures is reported to the Joint Commission (see APPENDIX H). These measures are
reported publicly on Hospital Compare.
i. Process Measures: Evidence based process measures reflect good clinical
practice and high levels of achievement in these areas correlate with good
patient outcomes. These processes include stroke care, preventive
6

Page 52 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

interventions in all patients to reduce the incidence of thromboembolism in the
hospital, to administer influenza vaccination and to properly care for surgical
patients (APPENDIX H). The hospital’s performance in these areas is used to
determine the priorities for performance improvement projects.
ii. Outcome Measures: Mortality and Readmissions: CMS uses administrative data
to calculate overall mortality, readmission rates to the hospital and rates of
hospital acquired conditions.
iii. Outcome Measures: Hospital Acquired Conditions: Hospital acquired infections
represent a major, and preventable, source of morbidity in the hospital
(APPENDIX I). Hospital acquired complications (Patient Safety Indicators, or
PSIs) are abstracted from hospital claims and reported on Hospital Compare.
iv. Efficiency Measures: Emergency Department(ED) Throughput: Wait times in the
ED are monitored.
e. Medical Departments and Medical Staff Committees: The medical staffs are
responsible to the Executive Medical Staff Committee and the Quality Committee for
maintaining a consistently high level of patient care. Each department or committee
has identified quality priorities which support institutional goals and which are tracked
on a regular basis and inform performance improvement activities for the department
or committee. These are reported to the Quality Committee via the reporting groups
listed in APPENDIX J.
1. Blood Bank Committee: collects data on the appropriateness of the use
of blood and blood products and on all reported and confirmed
transfusion reactions.
2. Cancer Committee: reports results of cancer prevention, and
psychosocial assessment of cancer patients.
3. Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees: the Critical Care committee
collects data on diverse indicators related to intensive care. FY 2016
priorities for this committee include monitoring restraint prevalence
and process, and improving the reporting of resuscitation results.
4. Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees: In FY 2016
this committee will review appropriate utilization of medical therapy.
5. Environment of Care committee: Evaluates environmental and life
safety hazards, monitors the response to product safety and device
alerts and recalls, and provides oversight of the Emergency Response
Plan.
6. Infection Control Committee: Priorities for this committee for FY 2016
include reducing the risks of catheter associated urinary tract infections
and monitoring and improving compliance with hand hygiene.
7. Operating Room Committee: works collaboratively with the
Departments of Surgery, Anesthesia and Nursing to enforce use of
surgical checklists and time outs and improve OR throughput.
8. Surgical Function Review Committee: a high priority for FY 2016 is to
improve the timeliness of reporting of serious pathology results.

7

Page 53 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

f.

Data Abstraction: CCHHS uses computer supported data abstraction through the electronic
health record (EHR) for the majority of reported measures. Cases are sampled automatically
and are linked via the EHR for manual review. Numerator data are assessed by the
abstractor and compliance is measured as a percentage. Data is abstracted monthly for all
process measures. Data submission is through a third party. Data for outcome measures
may be abstracted by hospital abstractors (ED data), or reported to CMS via standard
channels. EHR dashboard reports are sent directly to area manager or department chairs for
analysis and feedback and are reported in summary form to the Hospital Quality
Improvement and Patient Safety meetings. Audits are conducted by managers or
chairs/designees with input and oversight from the Quality department.

g. Data Analysis: The source and specific numerator and denominator of each measure is
listed whenever possible. Data is compared to external benchmarks whenever these are
available. Data may be displayed using run charts which show the evolution of performance
over time and can be correlated with performance improvement initiatives. The goal is to
achieve high reliability in quality measures.
h.

V.

Performance Targets: These are determined by the type of data (process or outcome) and
by indicator. A subset of process measures have been selected for the Hospital’s and
System’s quality priorities for FY 2016 (see below). Performance targets are set at a higher
threshold for these metrics, to the top decile (> 90%ile). One set of outcome measures, OR
throughput, has also been selected as a quality priority (see below). For all other measures,
the achievement target for FY 2016 is above median performance (> 50th %ile).
Performance Improvement: Priorities for performance improvement are established by the
organizations leadership, which includes the Quality Committee, Executive Medical Staff,
System Leadership and the Board of Directors. High-risk, high-volume or problem prone
areas are prioritized for performance improvement projects after consideration of the
incidence, prevalence and severity of problems in these areas and whether these problems
are known to affect health outcomes, patient safety and quality of care. Performance
improvement projects are proportional to the scope and complexity of the hospital’s
services. Data analysis identifies areas needing improvement, and guides the institution of a
performance improvement program. Distinct improvement activities are performed
throughout the hospital, proportional to the scope and complexity of the care provided in
each area.
The hospital’s approach to performance improvement projects is in a transitional phase
from P-D-C-A to a Lean/Six Sigma Approach. This choice reflects the emphasis on value in
health care operations and the alignment of Lean concepts with value and the reduction of
waste. This approach accurately reflects the multidisciplinary nature of health care and the
processes under study. The Lean approach also supports the possibility of rapid cycle
performance improvement which may be used in selected cases, particularly in unit based
improvement programs.
Performance improvement projects will address variation by designing high-reliability
interventions which are known to create sustained changes. This includes system redesign,
forcing functions, checks and redundancies and consideration of human factors. High
8

Page 54 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

reliability organizations are characterized by sensitivity to operations, reluctance to simplify,
a preoccupation with failure, deference to expertise and resilience.
Monitoring of performance improvement activities will be provided by the hospital Quality
Committee. Interventions will be evaluated for success and sustained improvement. Staff in
the Department of Quality and Patient Safety will process data required for performance
improvement projects and provide facilitation for these projects as required.
VI.

Patient Safety Program: The Stroger Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety
Committee (‘Quality Committee’) is the multidisciplinary committee (APPENDIX E) which
provides guidance for the Hospital’s patient safety program under the leadership of the
Patient Safety Officer. More detail can be found in the hospital’s Patient Safety Plan.
a. Culture of Safety: Stroger Hospital recognizes the importance of a strong safety
culture to support and improve quality and safety within the organization. Safety
culture is measured using a validated, benchmarked survey.
i. Assessment: An anonymous, on-line safety culture survey is administered at all
CCHHS affiliates and is analyzed using national benchmark data.
ii. Staff Education: Staff education and training is provided to convey expectations
for patient safety to all staff, including the expectation to report patient safety
events. This includes training sessions during new staff orientation, a dedicated
module during annual training and training of hospital managers during the
Leadership Development Program. In addition numerous trainings are held
within clinical departments and for Graduate Medical Education programs.
iii. Interventions: Several interventions to enhance the culture of safety are
ongoing or planned, including safety Briefings, Safety Huddles, and leadership
Walk Rounds.
b. Adverse and Sentinel Events: The definition, reporting and evaluation of adverse
events are dictated by regulation and hospital policy. The initial reporting process is
outlined in APPENDIX F. Significant events are evaluated by departmental and/or
hospital wide oversight committees. Root cause analyses are performed for all
significant safety events as defined by hospital policy and the Joint Commission, and for
serious adverse events as defined by the National Quality Foundation. The results of
the evaluation of such events are reported to the hospital leadership and the Executive
Medical Staff.
c. Event Awareness and Notification: Adverse events may be reported using a variety of
systems.
i. Electronic event reporting system: The UHC Safety Intelligence © electronic
reporting system is used and known locally as eMERS. This system also
functions as a PSO (patient safety organization).
ii. Phone calls: confidential phone reports may be made by care providers to the
Quality Improvement/Patient Safety department (phone line: 4-SAFE or 4-7233),
to Risk Management, or to the Executive Medical Director.

9

Page 55 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

iii. Departmental reports: Medical and Nursing departments have internal review
processes to assess the quality of care provided by members of the respective
department. This includes oversight activities, case conferences, mortality and
morbidity reviews, reviews performed for OPPE or FPPE (ongoing or focused
professional practice evaluation), or evaluations conducted by the Medical Staff
Peer Review Committee.
iv. Referrals from outside agencies: Although rare, events may be identified during
review by IDPH ( Illinois Department of Public Health), CMS (Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services) or the The Joint Commission.
All of the above events, regardless of the method of identification, are reported
internally as described in APPENDIX F and evaluated as described below.
d. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events: The management of adverse and sentinel
events is described in hospital policy. Serious events are evaluated thoroughly with a
goal to understand the underlying causes or contributing factors and to mitigate the
risk of future events. Other areas of the hospital which may carry similar risks are
identified. A structured, interdisciplinary RCAs (root cause analyses) is performed.
e. Event Resolution and Action Plans: The RCAs identify process changes to reduce the
risk of recurrence of safety events. Action plans identify specific interventions, the
person(s) responsible for the intervention, and define measures of success. Managers
in relevant areas monitor and report on the implementation and the results of the
action plans. Oversight of these plans is provided by the Oversight committee and the
Hospital Quality and Patient Safety Committee.
f.

VII.

Proactive Risk Assessments: Stroger Hospital conducts proactive risk assessments in
identified high risk areas. One high risk process is selected annually for an in-depth
analysis using failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA). This multidisciplinary process
utilizes process mapping, identifies potential failure modes and examines the impact of
these failure modes on patient care. A risk scoring system is used for identifying,
evaluating and prioritizing improvement opportunities. The FMEA prioritized for 2016
is an assessment of patients who deteriorate clinically while under care and require
rescue; and the consequences of failure to rescue.

Patient Experience and Patient Relations: Patient perceptions of the safety and quality of
care are vitally important to the development of a responsive, patient centered
organization. Stroger Hospital welcomes feedback, comments and complaints from patients
and recognizes that patients and their families have the right to have complaints and
grievances reviewed by the hospital. An established complaint resolution process
implemented by the Office of Patient Relations receives, prioritizes and responds to all
complaints from patients. Serious consideration is given to every complaint, and hospital
policy is established regarding timeliness of resolution. These processes are designed not
only to enhance patient satisfaction but to also identify conditions which may impact on
patient safety.

10

Page 56 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

Structured surveys (HCAHPS – Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and
Systems) are administered to patients who have received care in the organization by an
independent entity and the results are reported to local managers, hospital leadership and
to CMS. This type of feedback from patients is used to restructure processes to support
patient safety, communication and patient education.

VIII.

Confidentiality: All information, data, reports, minutes or memoranda relating to the
implementation of this Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan are solely
for use in the course of internal quality control for the purpose of reducing morbidity and
mortality and improving patient care. As such, they are strictly confidential under the Illinois
Medical Studies and Hospital Licensing Act. The confidentiality of patient specific data will
be protected in observance of HIPAA regulations and aggregated, de-identified data will be
used whenever possible for quality data reporting.

11

Page 57 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX A
CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) Regulations Guiding Quality Plans
Regulation (CFR 482.21 sections A-0263 - A-0267):
The hospital must develop, implement and maintain an effective, ongoing, hospital-wide, data-driven
quality assessment and performance improvement program. The hospital’s governing body must
ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s organization and services, involves all
hospital departments and services (including those services furnished under contract or arrangement),
and focuses on indicators related to improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of
medical errors. The hospital must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its QAPI program for review
by CMS.
(a) Standard: Program Scope
(1) The program must include, but not be limited to, an ongoing program that shows
measurable improvement in indicators for which there is evidence that it will
improve health outcomes and identify and reduce medical errors.
(2) The hospital must measure, analyze and track quality indicators, including adverse
patient events, and other aspects of performance that assess processes of care,
hospital service and operations.
(b) Standard: Program Data
(1) The program must incorporate quality indicator data including patient care data and
other relevant data, eg information submitted to or received from the hospital’s
Quality Improvement Organization.
(2) The hospital must use the data collected to (i) monitor the effectiveness and safety
of services and quality of care and (ii) identify opportunities for improvement and
changes that will lead to improvement.
(3) The frequency and detail of data collection must be specified by the hospital’s
governing body.
(c) Standard: Program Activities
(1) The hospital must set priorities for its performance improvement activities that: (i)
focus on high-risk, high-volume, or problem-prone areas; (ii) consider the incidence,
prevalence, and severity of problems in those areas and (iii) affect health outcomes,
patient safety and quality of care.
(2) Performance improvement activities must track medical errors and adverse patient
events, analyze their causes, and implement preventive actions and mechanisms
that include feedback and learning throughout the hospital.
(3) The hospital must take actions aimed at performance improvement and after
implementing those actions the hospital must measure its success and track
performance to ensure that improvements are sustained.
12

Page 58 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

(d) Standard: Performance Improvement Projects
As part of its quality assessment and performance improvement program the hospital must conduct
performance improvement projects.
(1) The number and scope of distinct improvement projects conducted annually must be
proportional to the scope and complexity of the hospital’s services and operations.
(2) A hospital may.. develop and implement an information technology system explicitly
designed to improve patient safety and quality of care.
(3) The hospital must document what quality improvement projects are being conducted,
the reasons for conducting these projects and the measurable progress achieved on
these projects.
(e) Standard: Executive Responsibilities
The hospital’s governing body, medical staff, and administrative officials are responsible and
accountable for ensuring the following:
(1) That an ongoing program for quality improvement, and patient safety, including the
reduction of medical errors, is defined, implemented, and maintained.
(2) That the hospital-wide quality assessment and quality improvement efforts address
priorities for improved quality of care and patient safety and that all improvement
actions are evaluated.
(3) That clear expectations for safety are established.
(4) That adequate resources are allocated for measuring, assessing, improving and
sustaining the hospital performance and reducing risk to patients.
(5) The determination of … projects is conducted annually

13

Page 59 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX B:
Joint Commission Leadership Standards
LD.01.03.01
The governing body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services.
The governing body defines in writing its responsibilities
LD.02.03.01
The governing body, senior manager and leaders of the organized medical staff regularly communicate
with each other on issues of safety and quality. Leaders discuss issues that affect the hospital and the
population it serves, including performance improvement activities, reported safety and quality issues,
proposed solutions and their impact on resources, reports on key quality measures and safety
indicators, safety and quality issues specific to the population served.
LD.03.01.01
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety throughout the hospital. Leaders regularly evaluate the
culture of safety and quality using valid and reliable tools and prioritize and implement changes
identified by the evaluation.
LD.03.02.01
The hospital uses data and information to guide decisions and to understand variation in the
performance of processes supporting safety and quality.
LD.03.05.01
Leaders implement changes in existing processes to improve the performance of the hospital. Structures
for managing change and performance improvement exist. The hospital has a systematic approach to
change and performance improvement. Leaders provide resources required for performance
improvement and change management.
LD.04.04.01
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement; set priorities for performance improvement
activities and patient health outcomes, and give priority to high-volume, high-risk or problem prone
processes for performance improvement activities.
LD.04.04.03
New or modified services and processes are designed incorporating multiple factors (i.e. patient/staff
needs, results of quality activities, information about patient risks, and sentinel event information)
LD.04.04.05
The hospital has an organization-wide, integrated patient safety program within its performance
improvement activities. The leaders implement a hospital-wide patient safety program. One or more
qualified individuals or an interdisciplinary group manages the safety program. The scope of the safety
program includes the full range of safety issues, from potential or no-harm errors to hazardous
conditions and sentinel events. All departments, programs and services within the hospital participate
in the safety program.
14

Page 60 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX C:
Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards
PI.01.01.01, EP 1-8, 11, 12, 14-16, 30, 38
The hospital collects data to monitor its performance. Leaders set priorities for data collection. The
leaders identify the frequency for data collection. The hospital collects data on
• the performance improvement priorities identified by leaders
• operative and other procedures that place the patient at risk of disability or death
• all significant discrepancies between preoperative and postoperative diagnoses, including
pathologic diagnoses
• adverse events related to using moderate or deep sedation
• use of blood and blood components
• all reported and confirmed transfusion reactions
• results of resuscitation
• behavior management and treatment
• significant medication errors
• significant adverse drug reactions
• patient perception of the safety and quality of care, treatment, and services
• effectiveness of fall reduction activities
• effectiveness of response to change or deterioration in a patient’s condition
PI.02.01.01, EP 1-8
The hospital compiles and analyzes data. The hospital compiles data in usable formats, identifies the
frequency for data analysis, uses statistical tools and techniques to analyze and display the data,
analyzes and compares internal data over time to identify levels of performance, patterns, trends and
variations, and compares data with external sources, when available.
PI.03.01.01, EP 1-4
The hospital improves performance on an ongoing basis. Leaders prioritize the identified improvement
opportunities. The hospital takes action on improvement priorities. The hospital evaluates actions to
confirm that they resulted in improvements.

15

Page 61 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX D:
CCHHS Quality Reporting Overview

Board of Directors
CCHHS

Board QPS
Committee

Executive Medical
Staff Stroger
Hospital

Quality Committee
Stroger Hospital

Executive Medical
Staff Provident
Hospital

Cermak Health
Services Quality
Committee

Provident Quality
Committee

ACHN Quality
Council

*Reports to the Board may be provided by the Chief Operating Officer for Hospital Based Services or by
the Chief Quality Officer or the Executive Medical Director

16

Page 62 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX E:
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee Description
Reporting Groups:
Emerg
Services

General
MedSurg

Infect
Control

CritCare
Emer
Resp

Case
Mgmt

Rad &
Rad
Safety

Behav
Health

Hosp
Infor
Mgmt

Hospital Quality
Improvement and
Patient Safety
Committee ‘HQuIPS’

Nursing
Care

Periop
Services

Diag
Test Lab

Med
Mgmt
Environ
of Care

Medical
Educ

Women
and
Children

Patient
Exp of
Care

Ex Officio

Committee Membership:

President, Executive Medical Staff
Executive Medical Director (System)
Medical Department Chairs
Executive Director of Nursing
Chief Quality Officer (System)
COO Hospital Based Services
COO Ambulatory Services
Director of Quality, Ambulatory Services
Associate Executive for Nursing (Stroger Hospital)
Director of Health Information (System)
Director of Patient Experience (System)
Director of Pharmacy (System)
Director of Infection Control (System)
Director of Supply Chain

Chair, Quality and Patient
Safety Subcommittee,
CCHHS Board of Directors
Chief Financial Officer (System)
CMIO (System)
Quality Staff
Clinical Informatics Director

17

Page 63 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX F:
Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events

Clinical Adverse Event or
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No
Patient Harm

Attending Physician
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per
Attending Physician

Patient or Family Concern

Notify Risk Management
Immediately

Notify Department Chair
or Oversight Committee

Notify Chief Medical
Officer/Executive Medical
Director

Notify Quality

Leadership Notification:
COO, Executive Medical
Director, Quality

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

18

Page 64 of 79

Enter into On-Line Event
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX G
Key Performance Indicators – Inpatient Services

Baseline
Q3 2015

Target

50 %ile

90 %ile

Operating Room:
OR on-time starts (%)

47

80

64

88

Quarterly

Operating Room:
OR room turnaround
time (minutes)

47 min

35 min

29

23

Quarterly

Core Measure:
VTE Prophylaxis
General Care

89

99

88

99

Quarterly

Prevention:
Influenza Vaccination

75

90

93

100

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Recommend the
Hospital

69

84.7

72.4

84.7

Quarterly

Patient Satisfaction:
Communication with
Nurses is ‘good’

69

85.7

79.5

85.7

Quarterly

Fall rate/ falls with
injury

0.6

25%
reduction

-

-

Quarterly

Hospital Acquired
Pressure Ulcers

0.6

25%
reduction

-

-

Quarterly

Hospital Indicator

1

th

19

Page 65 of 79

2

th

Reporting
Interval

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX H
CMS Inpatient Quality Reporting (IQR) and Joint Commission Indicators – 2015

Measure

Data Type*
CMS IQR

STK-4 Stroke- Thrombolytic Therapy
VTE-5 Warfarin Discharge Instructions
VTE-6 Hospital Acquired VTE
ED-1 Time from ED Arrival to Admission
ED-2 Time from Decision to Admission
IMM-2 Influenza Vaccination
PC-01 Early Elective Deliveries
SEP Compliance with the Sepsis Bundle

Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction

Joint Commission
STK-4 Stroke- Thrombolytic Therapy
VTE-2 VTE Prophylaxis in the ICU
ED 1&2 Time from ED Arrival/Decision to Admission
ED 1&2 Time from ED Arrival/Decision to Admission
IMM-2 Influenza Vaccination
PC (All) Perinatal Care

Chart Abstraction
eCQM
Chart Abstraction
eCQM
Chart Abstraction
Chart Abstraction

*Method of data abstraction: Chart abstraction requires manual review, eCQM is electronically
abstracted

20

Page 66 of 79

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX I
Hospital Acquired Conditions – 2015

Condition

Data Source
PSI-90 Hospital and Surgical Complications

PSI-03 Pressure Ulcers
PSI-06 Iatrogenic Pneumothorax
PSI-07 Central Venous Line Infections
PSI-08 Post-op Hip Fracture
PSI-12 Post-op Venous Thromboembolism
PSI-13 Post-op Sepsis
PSI-14 Post-op Wound Dehiscence
PSI-15 Accidental Puncture or Laceration

Claims
Claims
Claims
Claims
Claims
Claims
Claims
Claims

HAI- Hospital Acquired Infections
Central Line Associated Blood Stream
Infections
Surgical Site Infections
Catheter Associated Urinary Tract Infections
MRSA Bacteremia
C Difficile Associated Disease
Influenza Vaccination of Healthcare Workers

21

Page 67 of 79

NHSN
NHSN
NHSN
NHSN
NHSN
Local/NHSN

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX J:
Medical Staff Committees and Departmental Reporting
Reporting Group Descriptions
Reporting Group

Departments or Divisions

Perioperative

Committees or
Workgroups
OR Committee, NSQIP+

Joint Commission
Chapter
NPSG*

Environment of Care

Drug & Formulary,
Medication Safety,
Environment of Care

Medication Mgmt
and NPSG
EOC, Life Safety,
Emergency Mgmt
Infection Control

Surgery, Anesthesia, ObGyne
Medication Management Pharmacy

Emergency Services

Environmental, Police,
B&G, CE
Infection Control, OR/SPD,
Nursing
Critical Care (various),
Palliative Care
Family Medicine,
Medicine, Surgery
EM, Trauma/Burn, Nursing

Women and Children

Pediatrics, Ob/Gyne

Behavioral Health

Psychiatry, Nursing

Bioethics

Diagnostic Testing

Pathology

Radiology/Radiation
Safety
Nursing Services

Radiology

Surgical Function
Review, Blood Bank

Nursing

Nursing Quality

Hospital Information
Management (HIM)
Patient Experience of
Care
Case Management and
Utilization Management
Graduate Medical
Education (GME)

HIM

HIM, IT

All
Case Management

Patient Experience
Council
Utilization Management

GME

GMEC

Infection Control
Critical Care/ Emergency
Response
General Med-Surg

+NSQIP = National Surgical Quality Improvement Program
*NPSG = National Patient Safety Goals
22

Page 68 of 79

Infection Control
Critical Care,
Resuscitation, Bioethics
Stroke, Cancer, NSQIP

Provision of Care

Capacity Management

Provision of Care

Provision of Care

Provision of Care
Provision of Care,
Pt Rights
Performance
Improvement
NPSG
Nursing, Provision
of Care
Record of Care and
Information Mgmt
Patient Rights
Provision of care

 2016
CCHHS – Stroger Hospital Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

This page is intentionally left blank

23

Page 69 of 79

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting
August 16, 2016

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 70 of 79

  HEALTH HOSPITALS 

Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System

   


lcmhetk inkle 

g?gbquMg SYSTEM Board Members

 

President 
Cook County Board of Commissioners Hill Hammock - Chainuzm
Juhn Jay Shannon, MD ?k Commissioner Jerry Butler - Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Ric Estrada

Cook County Health Hospitals System Ada Mary Gugculieim
Emilio N. Jungc

Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE
Ozuru 0. Ukoha, MD Mal)" 3- Rwllaxdson-Lowry
Canmn Velasquez

President, Dorene P. Wiese. 
Executive Medical Staff
John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital
of Cook County

Date: August 10, 2016

Dear members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board:

Please be advised that the Executive Medical Staff Committee of John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County used the electronic poll to approve the attached list of medical
staff action items for your consideration. This step was necessary because the Committee

does not meet during the month of August.

Thank you very much.

Respectfully submitt

  

Ozuru O. Ukoha, MD
President, EMS

 

Ambulatory 8. Community Houllh Network 0 Cormuk Health Services 0 Cook County Department of Public Health -
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital 6 Oak Forest Health Pagan OWovldeni Hospital 0 Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center 

Page 71 of 79

 
I HOSPITALS S'?nt?

CCH HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff and Non-Medical Staff Action Items subject to approval by the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee.

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLEATIQNS

 

Initial Physician Appointment Applications

Adams, Carmen, MD Active
Appointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Bhat, Gifty, MD Pediatrics Active
Appointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018
Caughiin, Benjamin, MD Surgery/Otolaryngology Consulting
Appointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Clary, Tyrisha, MD Correctional Health/Medicine Active
Appointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Ezeife, ijeoma, MD Medicine/Hospital Medicine Active
Appointment Effective: September 16, 2016 thru September 15. 2018
Haq, Yaser, MD Correctional Active
Appointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Miller, Joyce, MD Correctional Active
Appointment Effective: September 28, 2016 thru September 27, 2018

initial Non-Physician Appointment Applications

Biancalana-Marsh, Lisa, CNP Medicine/General Medicine Nurse Practitioner
With Davidovich, Michael, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15. 2018

Roman, LaToyia, CNP Medicine/Hospital Medicine Nurse Practitioner
With Patel, Sanjay, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Songkum, Jantanee, CNP Pediatrics/Neonatoiogy Nurse Practitioner
With Akintorin, Mopelola Subuola, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

REAPPQINTMENT APPLICATIONS

 

Department of Anesthesiology:

Paek, Hyang Won, MD Anesthesiology Active
Reappointment Effective: September 21, 2016 thru September 20, 2018
(V)
APPROVED 

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY ITTEE
ON AUGUST 16, 2016
Item MB)

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016
Page 2 of 9

Page 72 of 79

 

coon 
I. Hosanna SvstEH

HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Correctional Health Services:

Howard, Jonathan, MD
Reappointment Effective:

McNeal, Jenea, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Emergency Medicine:
Smith, Lauren, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Family Medicine:

Bradley, Juliet, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Medicine:

Abrahamian, Frida, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Ahmed, Azzazudin, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Amblee, Amibka, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Atten, Mary Jo, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Block, Joel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Case, John P., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Clarke, Peter, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Doukky, Rami, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Gandhi, Seema R., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Golzar, Yasmeen, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item 

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016

Voluntary
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018
Active

November 16, 2016 thru November 15, 2018

Emergency Medicine Active
September 23, 2016 thru September 22, 2018

Family Medicine ActiVe
November 16, 2016 thru November 15, 2018

Gastroenterology Voluntary
September 6, 2016 thru September 5, 2018

General Medicine Active

July 25, 2016 thru July 24,2018

Endocrinology Active

October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

Gastroenterology Active

October 17, 2016 thru October 16, 2018

Rheumatology Voluntary

October 21, 2016 thru October 20, 2018
Rheumatology Active
October 21, 2016 thru October 20, 2018

General Medicine Active

October 21, 2016 thru October 20, 2018

Adult Cardiology Active

October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

Gastroenterology Active

October 28, 2018 thru October 27, 2018

Adult Cardiology Active

October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018
corms
APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY Co 
ON AUGUST 16, 2016
Page 3 of 9

Page 73 of 79

 

COOK 
Hospitus 

CC-H HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Reappointment Applications

Department of Medicine (continued):

Gomez-Valencia, Javier, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Hwang, Jessica, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Lee, Anna Mae, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mathew, Suja, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mohiuddin, Reshma, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Pierko, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Raba, John, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rohr, Louis, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Sonenthal, Kathy, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Vargas,Sergio, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Williams, Brett, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Adult Cardiology Active

October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

Endocrinology Active

October 28, 2016 thru October 27, 2018

General Medicine Voluntary
September 28, 2016 thru September 27, 2018

General Medicine Active

October 17, 2016 thru October 16, 2018

General Medicine Active

October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018
General Medicine Active
October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

General Medicine
October 28, 2016 thru October 27, 2018

Voluntary

General Medicine Active

October 17, 2016 thru October 16, 2018

Pulmonary Critical Care
October 17, 2016 thru October 16, 2018

Voluntary

Hospital Medicine Active
September 28, 2016 thru September 27, 2018

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology:

Gerber, Susan, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Pediatrics:

Deon, Laura, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rasamimari, Phornphat MD
Reappointment Effective:

Siffermann, Emily, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Arcia-Diaz, Rosibell, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item MB)

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August BEIUEQUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY C0

Infectious Disease Voluntary
October 28, 2016 thru October 27, 2018
Voluntary

September 23, 2016 thru September 22, 2018

Pediatric Rehabilitation
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Voluntary

Neonatology Active

October 28, 2016 thru October 27, 2018

Child Abuse 8. Neglect Active

October 21, 2016 thru October 20, 2018

Pediatrics Active
November 13, 2016 thru November 12, 2018



APPROVED

 
 

Page 4 of 9 on AUGUST 16, 2016

Page 74 of 79

COOK 
a 



John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

 

D_e_partment of 

Clark, Laurel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Thomas, Lynelle, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Radiology:

Camren, Gerald, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surgery:

Conley, David, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Hasan, Jafar, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Holloweli. Courtney, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Johnson, Donna, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Lygizos, Nicholas, MD
Reappointment Effective:

McDonald, Sarah, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Panos, George, DDS
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Trauma:

Poulakidas, Stathis, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Active
September 22, 2016 thru September 21, 2018

JTDC Voluntary
November 25, 2016 thru November 24, 2018

Radiology Active
September 23, 2016 thru September 22, 2018

Otolaryngology Active
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Plastic Surgery Active
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Urology Active
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Ophthalmology Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018

Otoiaryngology Consulting
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Otolaryngology Active
August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018

Oral Maxillofacial Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018

Trauma Burn Unit Active
September 6, 2016 thru September 6, 2018

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff:

Altez, Carlos 0., PA-C
With Yu, Yan, DO

Alternate Baker, Terrance, MD

Effective:

Falola, Eto, CNP
With Burtch, Radha, MD
Effective:

Item 

Correctional Health Physician Assistant

August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018

Nurse Practitioner

August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

APPROVED 

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY
ON AUGUST 16, 2016

   

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016

Page 5 of 9
Page 75 of 79

COOK communism-H
a MOSPITALE 

CCH HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff {continued}:

 

Martinez, Salvador, PA-C Correctional Health Physician Assistant
With Richardson, Stamatia, MD
Alternate Paul, Reena, MD

Effective: August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018

Mathew, Lizamma, CNP Medicine/Adult Cardiology Nurse Practitioner
With Sattar, Payman, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Melvin, Amy, CNP Medicine/Pulmonary Critical Care Nurse Practitioner
With Muzaffar, Shirin, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Naftzger-Kang, Lisa, CNP Surgery/Colon/Rectal Nurse Practitioner
With Cintron, Jose R., MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Stadnicki, Christopher, PA-C Correctional Health Physician Assistant

With De Funiak, Andrew, MD
Alternate Mennella, Concetta, MD
Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Collaborative/Supervision Agreement Only:

Brooks, Cicely. PA-C Correctional Health Physician Assistant
With Gafoor. Sabiha, MD

Alternate Ezike, Ngozi, MD

Effective: August 16, 2016 thru January 19, 2017



APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COM EE
ON AUGUST 16, 2016
Item 

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016
Page 6 of 9

Page 76 of 79

   

cook 

Toni Preckwinkle Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System

COOK 

 

 

President 3, HOSPITALS sys're Board Members
Cook County Board of Commissioners CCH M. Hill Hammock Chairman
John Jay Shannon, MD Commissioner Jerry Butler . Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Ric Estrada
Cook County Health Hospitals System Ada Mary Gugenheim
Emilie N. unge

Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry
Carmen Velasquez
Dorene P. Wiese, 

Valerie Hansbrough, MD
President,
Medical Executive Committee
Provident Hospital
Of Cook County

August 5, 2016
Dear Members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee:
Please be advised that at the Credentials Meeting held on August 2, 2016 the Medical Executive

Committee of Provident Hospital of Cook County recommended the actions on the enclosed list. It is
being presented to you for your consideration.

Respectfully,

Valerie Hansbrough, MD
President, MEC

 

 

i Ambulatory Continually Health Newark - 0 Cook County Department of Public Health 0

0 John H. Stringer, Jr. Hospltul - Oak Forest Health Center 0 Provident Hospital Ruth M. Rothsteln CORE Center 
Page 77 of 79

COOK 
II HOSPITALS SYSTEM

HS

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff and Non-Medical Staff Action Items subject to approval by the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee.

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Adams, Carmen, MD
Appointment Effective:

Painstil, Issac, MD
Appointment Effective:

Turner, Arnold, MD
Appointment Effective:

Reiss, Benjamin, MD
Appointment Effective:

Veenstra, Benjamin, MD
Appointment Effective:

Apushkin, Michael, MD
Appointment Effective:

Bugeag, Ionut, MD
Appointment Effective:

Keen, John, MD
Appointment Effective:

Department of Internal Medicine

Gandhi, Seema, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Gueret, Renaud, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mullane, Michael, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Pelaez, Victor, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Pierko, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Internal Medicine Affiliate
September 16, 2016 thru July 12, 2018

Internal Medicine Active
September 16, 2016 thru September 15, 2018

Surgery/Ophthalmology Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru July 18, 2018

Surgery/General Voluntary
August 16, 2016 thru July 18,2018

Radiology Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Radiology Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru April 18,2018

Radiology Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru July 21,2018

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Gastroenterology Affiliate
October 28, 2016 thru October 27, 2018

Pulmonary Affiliate
October 17, 2016 thru June 28,2018

Hematology/Oncology Affiliate
August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018

Cardiology Active
October 21, 2016 thru July 10, 2018

Internal Medicine Affiliate
October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

Warrior, Lakshmi, MD Neurology Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: October 16, 2016 thru October 15, 2018

APPROVED
Item BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY ITTEE
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016 ON AUGUST 16, 2016

Page 8 of 9
Page 78 of 79

   

I I
I 1

a
I 

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Surgery

COOK COUNTYHEALTIH
a SYSTEM

CCH HS

Beck, Traci, MD Surgery/Urology Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2016 thru August 25. 2018
Hasan, Jafar, MD Surgery/Plastic Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018
Holiowell, Courtney, DO Surgery/Urology Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: August 16, 2016 thru August 15, 2018
LaVeau, Robert, DPM Surgery/Podiatry Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: September 16, 2016 thru September 15, 2018
Pulla, Richard, DPM Surgery/Podiatry Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: September 17, 2016 thru September 16, 2018
Teleradiology
Bold, Johnathan, MD Virtual Radiologic Teleradiology
Privileges Effective: August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018
CCHI-Is
APPROVED

ltem 

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY
ON AUGUST 16, 2016

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of August 16, 2016
Page 9 of 9

Page 79 of 79

MITTEE

