QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: November 13, 2013
The Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System will meet on Wednesday, November 20, 2013 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the
Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

8:30/Chairman Collens

II.

Public Speakers

8:30-8:40

III.

Report from System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory
and Accreditation

8:40-9:20/Dr. K. Das

A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS)
C. Publicly Reported Ratings
IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting,
October 9, 2013
B. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes

9:20-9:25/Chairman Collens

9:25-9:30/Dr. O. Ukoha and
Dr. P. Wakim

C. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Committee Education – Readmissions
B. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

VI.

Closed Session Items
A. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)

9:30-9:45/Dr. K. Das and Joy
Wykowski
9:45-9:55
Dr. P. Wakim
Dr. O. Ukoha

9:55-10:00

Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Open Meetings Act:

** Also included as a potential Closed Session Item/Discussion under Section VI.

 AGENDA
Wednesday, November 20, 2013 Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Page 2

VI.

Closed Session Items (continued)
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal
of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or
other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public
body.”

VII. Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Collens
Members:
Board Chairman Carvalho (Ex-Officio) and Directors Lerner and Muñoz
Pat Merryweather (Non-Director Member)

 