Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, January
27, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Batts called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Warren L. Batts and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden;
Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Heather
E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM; and Ruth M. Rothstein (9)

Present
Telephonically: Director David A. Ansell, MD, MPH (1)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez (1)

Chairman Batts stated that Director Ansell was unable to be physically present, but would like to participate in the
meeting telephonically.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to allow Director Ansell to
participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Ansell indicated his presence telephonically at approximately 8:10 A.M.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
David Barker, MD – Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center
of Cook County
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance Officer
John Cookinham – System Interim Chief Financial
Officer
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. – State’s Attorney’s Office
Claudia Fegan, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Hon. Jesus Garcia – Cook County Commissioner
Aaron Hamb, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook County
Bala Hota, MD – System Chief Medical Information
Officer

II.

Charlene Luchsinger – System Credentials
Verification Officer
Melinda Malecki – System Director of Risk
Management
Randall Mark – System Director of Intergovernmental
Affairs and Policy
Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer
(telephonically)
Matt Powers – Health Management Associates
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Pierre Wakim, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County

Public Speakers
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

George Blakemore
Jania Pearson

Concerned Citizen
Concerned Citizen

Page 1 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, December 16, 2011
Director Golden, seconded by Director Lyne, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of December 16, 2011. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, January 17, 2012
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of January 17, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, January 17, 2012
i. Review of study in collaboration with the University of Illinois School of Public Health, regarding
Access to Trauma Care in Southern Cook County
Chairman Batts noted that the study regarding Access to Trauma Care in Southern Cook County is
included as an attachment to the minutes of the Quality and Safety Committee Meeting.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of January 17, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 20, 2012
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Rothstein, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of January 20, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Carvalho re-stated his PRESENT votes on request numbers 3 through 9, and on
request number 14, under the Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the
minutes.

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, presented the requests for the Board’s
consideration.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, provided further information regarding request number 1; this was a
request to amend the contract with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), for performance improvement
implementation services. He stated that the request is for the final transition work; he added that he has made
it very clear that he has every intention of bringing in most of the vendor work in-house, and developing the
in-house expertise to get the work done, wherever possible and wherever the skill level is available.
Page 2 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Dr. Raju stated that this is an amendment to the existing contract, to ensure that the System receives verifiable
value as it concludes its engagement with PwC. The amendment is designed to provide a single transitional
statement of work (SOW), which outlines the key initiatives, including the wind-down of short-term resource
assistance that PwC will provide in the final months of the contract. It also provides for the development of
work plans which will contain milestones that must be achieved in order for PwC to receive payment. This
amendment changes the payment methodology; as of December 1, 2011, this contract will no longer pay a
maximum of $2.5 million per month. Under the transitional document, the payment is reduced to an average
of $1 million per month; he stressed that this amount is dependent upon the services received and approved.
One part of the engagement also involves resource augmentation; these resources are performing some
critical functions needed to continue, as the System is under tremendous pressure to meet revenue targets.
Dr. Raju noted that this transition needs to occur in a very orderly and seamless fashion. It is his intention
that most of the resources will be transitioned out of the System over the next several months, and PwC will
work with the System to provide the knowledge transfer necessary for employees, so that staff can carry on
their functions effectively. He intends to watch over this very carefully, and will approve each and every
project based on the System’s needs; there will be very clear deliverables and tightly controlled milestones to
achieve this.
Dr. Raju indicated that management is still working on a few points on the SOW regarding some of the staff
augmentation dollars. One of the other matters under negotiation is the amount payable for out-of-scope
services provided prior to November 30, 2011; this will be provided for in the new SOW.
Director O’Donnell indicated that it would be helpful to see an outline of how this work will be transitioned
to existing staff prior to November 2012. Director Carvalho noted that, in the past, the transition of
knowledge and skills to staff has been hindered by the System’s challenges in filling vacant positions. Dr.
Raju indicated that one of his major goals is to address that issue, over the next twelve months.
Director Lyne, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of request numbers
1 and 2 under the Contract and Procurement Items. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Approval of a grant in the amount of $250,000 to the Cook County Health Foundation (Attachment #2)
Chairman Batts introduced the item. He stated that four Directors out of seven have been recruited; a quorum
can now be reached and business can be conducted. The four Directors are Lester Crown; Dr. Quentin
Young; Michael Gonzalez, a local contractor; and Kenneth Webb, who is a regional Vice President of
McKesson. With regard to Mr. Webb, Chairman Batts noted that it has been determined that there is no
conflict of interest for Mr. Webb to serve on the Foundation.
Chairman Batts indicated that establishing the Foundation and getting it running is important, as there is a
potential benefactor who is interested in donating a large sum for two clinics. In order to begin meaningful
fundraising efforts, professional fundraising advice is needed. He noted that he has talked to one of the
leading fundraising firms in town who is interested in helping the Foundation for a minimal fee; information
was provided on some of the firm’s previous projects and clients.

Page 3 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
B. Approval of a grant in the amount of $250,000 to the Cook County Health Foundation (continued)
Chairman Batts, seconded by Director Golden, moved the approval of a grant in the
amount of $250,000.00 to the Cook County Health Foundation. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Approval of the removal of uncollectible patient accounts from active accounts receivable to the bad
debt system (deferred at the January 20, 2012 Finance Committee Meeting)
John Cookinham, System Interim Chief Financial Officer, presented the item for consideration. He stated that
in 2008, the System Board approved a policy that allows management to transfer uncollectible accounts on a
monthly basis from active accounts receivable, place them with a collection agency if appropriate, or
otherwise archive the account information. The policy allows for the transfer on a monthly basis of up to
ninety percent of the prior year’s provision for bad debts included in the audited financial statements. Policies
were also established to calculate reserves in an ongoing consistent basis.
Mr. Cookinham indicated that, in accordance with the policy, if the transfers exceed the ninety percent
amount, permission will be requested to perform file maintenance for the amount in excess of ninety percent.
With regard to the request presented for consideration, he stated that these accounts have already been
declared uncollectible. He noted that this should be a one-time kind of event; once CareLink is in place, more
and more of the patients, as they present for service, will be identified for free care, so there will be a lesser
amount placed with a collection agency or declared as a bad debt.
Mr. Cookinham stated that there are residual balances on the three old systems; with regard to today’s request,
management reviewed that amount, and reviewed the amount that was in excess of the ninety percent. This
totals approximately $250 million in file maintenance.
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved to approve the request to
perform file maintenance of up to $250 million, to remove uncollectible patient accounts
from the system, in accordance with the System’s policy. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Tour of Oak Forest Health Center Clinics
Chairman Batts stated that he and Dr. Raju recently took a tour of the clinics at Oak Forest Health Center. They
were provided a detailed list of projects; he noted that these projects are approximately on schedule, but added
that there is a need for capital dollars from the County to continue this work.

Page 4 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 5

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board (continued)
Additionally, Chairman Batts requested that the Board receive a regular report at the Board Meetings regarding
the status of the State’s processing of Medicaid eligibility applications; he noted that collecting for Medicaid
patients treated is critical to the System’s success as an institution.
A. Board Education – Presentation on Section 1115 Waiver (Attachment #3)
The following individuals reviewed the information presented on the Section 1115 Waiver: Randall Mark,
System Director of Intergovernmental Affairs and Policy; Matt Powers, of Health Management Associates;
and Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. Also
participating in the presentation (telephonically) was Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer.
Included in the presentation was information on the following subjects: Basic Outline of Waiver Request;
Environmental Issues in Medicaid that Affect the Waiver; Goal and Milestones to-date; Looking Forward;
and Care Coordination Implementation. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #4)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2012 Budget; Donors Forum; Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center Incident; Oak Forest Health Center Renovation Update; Public Health Update; and Trauma
Patient.
Dr. Raju stated that the System will soon receive close to $41 million from the State; this amount includes some
of the retroactive Medicaid payments. He stated that with regard to revenue targets, the System has missed the
target for the first two months. On the Medicaid side alone, the System is missing the target by $8 million per
month, largely because the payer mix is shifting very quickly to self-pay or no-pay. He is watching this issue
very carefully, and is meeting with the financial staff nearly every week. He stated that regardless, even if the
System does everything correctly and as planned, there will be a structural deficit; at that point, either the 1115
Waiver money should be able to help. He added that if the 1115 Waiver approval does not come through, then
there is a real risk that the System will shrink again and services will be cut.
Dr. Raju stated that on January 11th, the Donors Forum hosted a program entitled “Funder Involvement in City
and County: Health Strategies.” This program provided for the discussion of policies and the development and
exploration of ways that the public and private sectors can work together to get funding. He noted that the
Commissioner of the Chicago Department of Health, Dr. Bechara Choucair, was also in attendance. At the event,
Dr. Raju laid out the plan on what the System needs to do as an organization. He also provided information
regarding the 1115 Waiver care coordination and employee engagement and development programs.
Director O’Donnell inquired regarding community engagement with the transition of the Oak Forest Health
Center. Dr. Raju stated that meetings on the subject are being scheduled and will be held with representatives of
the South Side Advisory Committee. He noted that the overall steering committee of the transformation is being
led by Dr. Mason and Carol Schneider, System Chief Operating Officer; under the steering committee, there are
three components - Public Engagement Needs Assessment, Clinical Services and Capital Projects.
A. Update on Meaningful Use (Attachment #5)
Dr. Bala Hota, System Chief Medical Information Officer, provided an update on Meaningful Use. The
information included a review of timelines and barriers, core criteria and menu criteria. The Board reviewed
and discussed the information.
Page 5 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 6

VII. Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Credentialing
Claims and Litigation
Proposed Salary Offers
Discussion of Personnel Matters
**Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, January 17, 2012
Director Rothstein, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending
before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the
establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental
and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim
or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications from or with respect
to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk management association
or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17),
regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians
or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical
care, that is operated by the public body,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings
between internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees, finance
committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control
weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and
fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of
the United States of America.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call
was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Batts and Directors Ansell, Butler, Carvalho, Golden, Lyne, Muñoz,
O’Donnell and Rothstein (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Vice Chairman Ramirez and Director Greenspan (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Board convened into closed
session.

Page 6 of 32

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 27, 2012
Page 7

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
Chairman Batts declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into regular session.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Carvalho, made the following motion: with
regard to the credentialing matter seeking approval of the new medical staff appointment
on the Provident Hospital Medical Staff as discussed in closed session, and for the grant
of clinical privileges as discussed in today’s closed session, move to approve the
appointment. On a voice vote, THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Carvalho, made the following motion: with
regard to the credentialing matter for the Stroger Hospital Medical Staff discussed during
today’s closed session, move to adopt Motion Alternate Number Two to deny the clinical
privileges for the provider who was the subject of the matter discussed in closed session
for the reasons set forth in the motion as read in closed session. On a voice vote, THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Batts declared the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Warren L. Batts, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 7 of 32

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
January 27, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 32

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(A)
JANUARY 27, 2012 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS 
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Amend Contract

1

PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
LLP

Service ‐ performance improvement
implentation services

No fiscal impact System

2

$249,000.00  System

3

Amend, Extend and Increase Contract

2

Service ‐ consulting and project
assistance ‐ Health Information
The Olenik Consulting Group Management (HIM) ICD‐10

Page 9 of 32

 :~,

Cook County Health & Hospitals System
BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST
REQUESTING ACCOUNt I AFFILIATE i DEPT:

PATE:
Janua

27,2012

TYPE OF REQUI:ST:
Amend Contract

Performance lm rovement lm lementation Services
VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
PricewaterhouseCoopers

FISCAL IMPACT: Norie
CONTRACT PERIOD:

X

GRANT FUNDED AMOUNT: N/A
July 13, 2010- July 13, 2013

CONTRACT#: H10-25-113

COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: [BID I RFP I GPO I OMP]
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: [SOLE SOURCE]

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY: The CCHHS entered into a contract with PricewaterhouseCoopers to provide Performanc~
Improvement lmplementa.ti<>n Services in July 201 d. The contract was to be carrie<:! out through individual statements of worl<: and
payrn~nt was capped baS~d upon a "realized ben~fit" methodology. PwC has dedicated a substantial number of resources to th.e
engagement and has been paid approximately $36 million in fees to date.

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION: PwC and CCHHS have negotiated an amendment wherein all prior SOWs will fold into~
single transitional statement of work defining initiatives believed to be key to a s.ustainable transformation of the CCHHS,
particulp,rly in the revenue cycle ·area. PwC will provide resources on a discounted hourly fee basis and on the basi~ of fee~
as~ociatf;Kt with specific milestones associated with these initiatives through the current fi$cal year. This will a~sist CCHHS
achieve key goals and remain within the amounts budgeted for the contract. Specifically, PwC wiil direct resources to continued
work in ~chieving a reduction in account~ receivabl~. both current and outstanding, will assist in the planning and implementation
of a central business office at Oak Forest, will continue to implement a centralized scheduling ~ystem and Will assist with certain
key revenue cycle initiatives including work currently being performed to support the Cemer/Siemens redesign. PwC will also
provide hourly subject matter .experi:is_~nterim resources and will provid~ knowl.edge tr~nster and project mana,gernent to
successfully conclude the engagement. Each initiative will be. set out in project ph;ms approved by the CEO or design~. The
maximum amount payable under this SOW is within the amounts remaining under the Contract and includes reduced hourly
charges for resource assistance.

to

FINANC'A'- BENEFIT: [Prior Cost versus New Cost] or [Discount Pricing]. PwC is extending di$counts on its hourly fees and
is agree.ing to provide certain services on a per project basis, thus assuming the risk of cost overruns. The amendment allow$
CCHHS to q:>ntinue to benefit from the exp~rtise that has been assigned to CCHHS and from the knowledge that has been
at lower cost.
acquired during the initial portion of the Contract while concluding key aspects of the e
~!!IIIJ!II·

TERNIS OF REQUEST: This is a request for approval of a Transitional Sta!terr1lmti!Jil\lftllftrtl!l
methodology provided for uncJer the Contract to permit completion of key inrti~ltivE~slvvithi
million dollars. The period cov~red by thi$ Transitional SOW is December 1, 2011
SOWs or amendments are entered into after 11/30/12, the engagement will expire at

Request#
1

• Ambulatory & Community Health Network • Cermak Health Services • Department of Public Health •
• John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County • Oak Forest Hospital • Provident Hospital • Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center •
We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 10 of 32

 BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST
SPONSORS:
()~
John R. Morales, CFO, Stroger Hospital tdK7
John Cookinham, Interim CFO, CCHHS
PRODUCT I SERVICE:
DATE:
Service- Consulting and Project Assistance- Health Information
12/14/2011
Manaqement (HIM) ICD-1 0
TYPE OF REQUEST:
VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
The Olenik Consulting Group, Chicago, Illinois
Amend, Extend and Increase
Contract
FISCAL IMPACT I ACCOUNT:
GRANT FUNDED AMOUNT:
N/A
890-260 CCHHS
$249,000.00
CONTRACT PERIOD:
CONTRACT #:
01/01/2012 thru 11/30/2012
H11-25-095
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: [BID I RFP I GPO]
N/A
X NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: [SOLE SOURCE]
Sing_le Feasible Provider
PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Olenik Consulting Group has been performing Interim Health Information Management (HIM) Director and
Manager consulting services for the CCHHS since July 2010. Contract (H11-25-095) was executed to provide
continued HIM managerial support for a period of three months from September 1, 2011 thru November 30, 2011 in
the amount of $107,000.00. A thirty day extension was granted to allow for continued uninterrupted service.
NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
The Olenik Consulting Group (TOCG) has made significant improvements within the HIM function during the past 16
months and is in the process of transitioning the HIM Director duties to the new permanent HIM Director. TOCG
prepared a proposal at the earlier request of the CCHHS Administration to transition from HIM Director duties to
providing consulting services to prepare the CCHHS for the upcoming required change from ICD-9 to ICD-10 coding
by 10/01/2013. This effort will entail significant coding, training and system update issues that will need to be
managed between the HIM and HIS Departments. TOCG, by way of Keith Olenik, brings a great wealth of expertise
in the ICD-1 0 area. Mr. Olenik is very familiar with CCHHS systems, policies, procedures, staffing, governance, etc.
Mr. Olenik's abilities will afford a significant leap forward in preparation for the transition to ICD-10 coding to meet the
on-time CMS requirements, in order to continue to be compensated for h
CHHS.

ld'ApPftOV CD'\

FINANCIAL BENEFIT: [Prior cost versus New cost]
Savings calculation: N/A
Percent: N/A
TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to amend, extend and increase contract H11-25-095 for
11/30/2012 in the amount of $249,000.00.

4

JAN "' 7·· '>Q1f)
L

L

L

BY BOARD OF

H~1t(~8WY§~~~ l12 thru

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE? Pending
ATTACHMENTS
BID TABULATIONS: N/A
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO:

Pending

Request#
2
~

• Ambulatory & Community Health Network • Cermak Health Services • Department of Public Health •
• John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County • Oak Forest Hospital • Provident Hospital • Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center •
We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 11 of 32

:·-·

 fjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~:S·:-:'E,i~ts~:m'n··.i::·:E:-5~r~·~a[C-:ziiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiE:i"~···:3·-.,r;.s~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii=-:. ·.:·

-

<=~~----------------------~------------------------------------------------------~ ~

DATE:

PRODUCT I SERVICE:
Service -Consulting and Project Assistance- Health Information
Management (HIM) ICD-1 0

12/14/2011

TYPE OF REQUEST:

VENDOR I SUPPLIER:

Amend, Increase and Extend
Contract

The Olenik Consulting Group [TOCG] Chicago, Illinois

~

CCHHSCOO:
Carol Schneide-r-,=c-h::.....ie_f_O_p_e_r_a-ti-ng__O_ff-ic_e_r_________________________

CCHHS CEO:

II
1

,L-

~;J\/\
.J\

,//

Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive 0 /

..

,.

• Ambulatory & Community Health Network • Cermak Health Services • Department of Public Health •
• John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County • Oak Forest Hospital • Provident Hospital • Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center •
We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 12 of 32

~

 COOK COU:'\TY
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

THE BOARD OF COfvlMISSIONERS
TOKI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT
EAR LEO.\ COLLINS
ROBERT STEELE
JERRY BUTLER
WILL!Afll M. BEAVE?.S
C·EBORAH SIMS
JOAN PATRICIA MU'lPHY
JCSUS G. GARCIA
EDWIN REYES

1st Dis!
2nd Dis1
3r1 Cist
4th Dis!
5n D1st
E1c Dis!.
71r Dis!.
8th Dist.

PEi'ER N. SILVESTRI
BRIDGET 3AINER
JOHN P. DALEY
JOHN A FRITCH'?i
LARRY SUFFREDIN
GREGG GOSL!t~
TIMOTHY 0. SCHNEIDER
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI
ELIZABETh Jl.NN DOODY GORMAtl

LAVERNE HALL
DIRECTOR

9:r
10:::
11th
12tn
13th
14ln

D:s:.
Disl
Dist.
Dist.
Dist.
Dist.
~5:h D1sl.
16:h Dist.
17th Dist.

1 IS North Clark Street, Room I 020
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304
TEL (312) 603-5502
FAX (312) 603-4547

January 10, 2011
Ms. Girvena LeBlanc
Supply Chain Management
&Procurement Department
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
1901 West Harrison Street, LL250
Chicago, IL 60612
Re;

Contract No. H11-25-095 {Amend, Extend and Increase)

Dear Ms. LeBlanc:
-

The above referenced contract has been reviewed for compliance with t~e General Conditions regarding the
Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance and has been found to be exempt.
Contractor:
Contract Amount:
Description:

The Olenik Consulting Group
$249,000.00
Service: Consulting and Project Assistance- Health Information Management

Waiver Granted:
The Olenik Consulting Group, Keith Olenik, a sole proprietor is providing Health Information Management
(HlM) consulting and project assistance for a period of 11 months (01/01/2012 through 11/30/2012}, to
transition the HIM Director duties to the new permanent HIM Director and to provide consulting services.

d;J~~

LaVerne Hall
Contract Compliance Administrator

LH/pgb

@

Printed on Re:.:y<.:lcd

J'~~r

Page 13 of 32

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
January 27, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 32

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Agenda of January 27, 2012
Item IV B, Action Item - Request for Approval of a grant of $250,000.00 to the Cook
County Health (CCH) Foundation

Explanation: In adopting the Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System (Health System), the Cook County Board of Commissioners expressly empowered the
Health System Board to encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to raise funds to
assist in carrying out the mission of the Health System. (Cook County Ordinance No. 08-0-35,
Section 38-80n). Accordingly, the Health System Board facilitated the incorporation of the
Cook County Health (CCH) Foundation, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation formed to solicit
and receive contributions and other financial support to be used in a manner that assists in
carrying out the mission of the Health System as that mission has been established and will be
periodically reviewed by the Health System Board.
The CCH Foundation is separate from the Health System and is not under the control of the
Health System. However, the Health System is committed to the success of the CCH Foundation
inasmuch as the Foundation is established to benefit the Health System. This grant of seed
money will provide the newly formed CCH Foundation with funds to secure the initial
professional and operating resources necessary to initiate fundraising activities and to become
self-sustaining.

APPROVED
BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Page 15 of 32

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
January 27, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 16 of 32

 CCHHS Board Education
System Medicaid Section 1115 Waiver Proposal

JJanuaryy 27,, 2012

Page 17 of 32

 Basic Outline of Waiver Request
y

Population: An estimated 100,000 patients currently in the CCHHS system could gain coverage.
An estimated 250,000 adult residents of Cook Countyy have income under 133 ppercent of FPL.

y

Benefits: Proposed coverage will be comprehensive but more limited than traditional Medicaid.
Core benefits will include inpatient and outpatient hospital services, physician services, prescription
drugs, mental health services, emergency services, and other benefits.

y

Network:
N
t
k Primary
Pi
iintent ffor services
i under
d the
h waiver
i would
ld hhave a major
j ffocus on the
h CCHHS
system initially with a regionally-developed network.

y

Care Coordination Model: A customized patient centered medical home model will be used.

y

Payments: Payments will likely begin as fee for service prospective payment system that will be
reconciled to cost as filed on cost reports. Payments will likely move to per member per month
over time to comport with HFS 2014/15 care coordination goals.

y

Enrollment: Eligibility vendor to find patients in current system. Additional efforts TBD. Waiver
requests
t presumptive
ti eligibility
li ibilit ddeterminations
t i ti ffor ‘new eligibles
li ibl ’.

2
Page 18 of 32

 Environmental Issues in Medicaid that Affect
the Waiver
y State Budget Issues
y Medicaid Reform – HFS care coordination issues
y Hospital
p Rate Reform
y Hospital and Nursing Home Assessments
y Competing demands and short staffing
y Revenue issues and
d DHS backlog
b kl
y Care coordination history – Illinois Health Connect
y Disproportionate
p p
Share Hospital
p Issues
y ACA “Cliff ”

3
Page 19 of 32

 Goal and Milestones to-date
Goal: 1½ year “head start” with “new eligibles” to allow CCHHS to claim match on “new
eligibles” population, better know who they are, what they cost, what types of services they
seek and receive, where they are, many other questions to be vetted early.
y Prior to December 2010 – “groundwork” discussions with HFS
y December 2010 – meetingg in Springfield
p g
with HFS staff re waiver
y January 2011 – Illinois General Assembly passed Medicaid reform bill (HB

5420)
y CCCHHS delivers Concept Paper to State (June 2011)
y HFS agrees to move forward with Waiver (October 2011)
y CCHHS care coordination/network capacity and waiver writing (Fall 2011)
y Waiver writing and submission to HFS(January 6, 2012)

4
Page 20 of 32

 Looking Forward
y

HFS submits waiver to federal CMS (outstanding – likely January 2012)

y

Negotiate terms and conditions of waiver with CMS

y

CCHHS Transformation through work groups – Care Coordination,
Coordination Empanelment,
Empanelment IT
IT,
Administration

y

Operational items with HFS (Operational plan submitted to HFS 12/11)

y

HFS release RFP related to Phase I of care coordination pproject (Januaryy 2012)

y

Required State law change to authorize expansion (spring 2012)

y

US Supreme Court to hear arguments on several provisions related to ACA (March 2012)

y

State expected to present hospital rate reform to the Illinois General Assembly (spring 2012)

y

HFS to release RFP related to Phase II of care coordination project (Summer 2012)

y

Cook County Expansion July 2012 – “new eligibles” covered in Cook County

y

Coverage for ACA “new eligibles” – January 1, 2014

y

Coordinated Care expansion to exceed 50% by 2015

y

CCHHS care coordination “fit” with HFS care coordination model is a key variable

5
Page 21 of 32

 Care Coordination Implementation
y Central Challenge to transform care delivery to PCMH [Patient Centered

Medical Home] model
y Dr.
D R
Raju
j hhas deep
d experience
i
iin managing
i care ffor M
Medicaid
di id populations
l i
y Dr. Mason overseeing Care Coordination implementation
y Given State mandate re Coordinated/Managed Care, transforming care

delivery model not optional as we look forward
y Anticipate series of performance benchmarks that will be negotiated with CMS
y Federal CMMI grant potential source of infrastructure “start
start up
up” funding
y “Everyone wants the money, nobody wants to do the work”

6
Page 22 of 32

 Cool: Com Health 8: Hospitals Syslem

Questions Comments

 



Page 23 of 32

Page 24 of 32

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
January 27, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 25 of 32

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
January 27, 2012 
 
FY 2012 BUDGET 
In the first two months of FY 2012 there is a short fall in Medicaid of $8 million.  There has been a drastic 
patient  shift  ‐  less  Medicaid  and  Medicare  –  more  self‐pay.    Each  week  the  finance  team  meets  to 
discuss the cost report for the week prior as well as a meeting regarding the level of physician billing.  
Also,  every  two  weeks  we  are  meeting  with  the  State  regarding  the  status  of  pending  Medicaid 
applications.  We expect to receive the retroactive rate settlement and upper payment limit adjustment 
by  early  February  from  the  State.    A  monthly  report  will  be  prepared  regarding  the  status  of  projects 
that  were  critical  to  and  imbedded  in  the  FY  2012  Budget  and  presented  at  each  Finance  Committee 
Meeting. 
DONORS FORUM 
On January 11th the Donors Forum hosted a program titled Funder Involvement in the City and County: 
Health  Strategies  to  discuss  how  polices  are  developing  and  to  explore  ways  for  public  and  private 
efforts to complement each other while also examining how government efforts will shape foundation 
grant making.  Dr. Bechara Choucair, Commissioner of the Chicago Department of Public Health, and I 
addressed  over  20  foundations.    The  Health  System  has  already  benefitted  from  two  of  those 
foundations, Michael Reese Health Trust and Ortho Sprague and Washington Square, through President 
Preckwinkle’s Cook County Foundation Collaborative.  We are grateful to those organizations and look 
forward to all opportunities to foster relationships and build collaborations. 
JTDC INDICENT 
A 16‐year‐old youth being detained at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) passed away on 
Saturday,  January  14th.    Dr.  Avery  Hart,  Chief  Medical  Officer  for  Cermak  Health  Services,  is  currently 

Page 26 of 32

 conducting  the  appropriate  quality  review.    Last  week  at  the  County  Board  Meeting  President 
Preckwinkle introduced a resolution requesting an independent investigation of Terry Bell’s death with 
findings reported within 60 days of passage of the resolution.  The resolution was referred to the County 
Criminal Justice Committee. 
OAK FOREST HEALTH CENTER RENOVATION UPDATE 
Wold  Architects  has  been  engaged  by  the  County  Office  of  Capital  Planning  and  Policy  to  provide 
architectural  and  engineering  services  for  the  renovation  of  the  New  E  Building  on  the  Oak  Forest 
Campus.  A capital committee consisting of the architectural firm, the County Office of Capital Planning 
and Policy and the Health System is currently in the planning phase.  The project meeting and milestone 
schedule has been compiled for the life of this construction project.   At the April 27th Board Meeting the 
design of the Oak Forest Health Center will be presented; and at the June 29th Board Meeting the award 
and acceptance of the construction bid will be presented. 
PUBLIC HEALTH UPDATE 
The  Cook  County  Department  of  Public  Health  (CCDPH)  has  been  working  on  the  food  borne  illness 
investigation associated with Bob Chinn’s Restaurant in Wheeling, Illinois.  This restaurant serves 3000 
meals  per  day.  Interviews  were  conducted  on  196  ill  individuals  and  87  well  individuals  by  CCDPH 
Communicable  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  staff.    Norovirus  was  confirmed  through  laboratory 
testing  as  the  causative  agent.  CCDPH  Environmental  Health  Inspectors  worked  with  the  Village  of 
Wheeling Health Officer to inspect and correct any violations at the restaurant.  The restaurant complied 
with the investigation and remediated the environmental health issues. All cases of illness were resolved 
without complications. 
TRAUMA PATIENT 
There  has  been  a  story  in  the  press  regarding  a  jogger  that  was  mauled  by  a  pit  bulls  along  the  lake.  
Close to death, Joseph Finley was not about to let two pit bulls end his life at 62 years old. It's been over 
two  weeks  since  the  South  Shore  resident  was  attacked  during  his  daily  jog  between  77th  and  79th 
streets.    Finley  was  conscious  all  the  way  to  Stroger  Hospital  and  then  went  into  shock.  With  a  huge 
amount of blood loss and damage to muscles and tendons, doctors were not able to save part of his left 
leg, but they were able to save Finley's life.  

2   P a g e  
 
Page 27 of 32

 "From  the  get‐go,  this  was  somebody  who  worked  hard  to  recover,"  said  Dr.  Kim  Joseph‐Trauma 
Surgeon, Stroger Hospital. "I'm very optimistic about his chances of really doing whatever he wants to 
do."  Trauma surgeons at Stroger say during the first few days of recovery they were not sure if Finley 
was going to survive. One doctor describes Finley's injures as equivalent to stepping on a landmine.   
Mr. Finley was discharged from Stroger Hospital on January 18th and transferred to an in‐patient rehab 
facility  in  the  Chicago  area.    Doctors  credit  Finley's  incredible  physical  and  mental  strength  for  his 
survival.  I would like  to thank all our  staff that were so instrumental in  making that happen and  that 
made us so proud: 
Dr. Andrew Dennis 
Dr. Kimberly Joseph 
Dr Fred Starr  
Dr. Stathi Poulakidas 
Dr. Faran Bokhari 

3   P a g e  
 
Page 28 of 32

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
January 27, 2012

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 29 of 32

 Meaningful Use Attestation at CCHHS:  Timelines and Barriers
Reimbursement (estimated)
Stroger

Payor Mix Requirement
Dependencies
Timeline

Medicaid

Reimbursement (estimated)
Provident

Payor Mix Requirement
Dependencies
Timeline
Reimbursement (estimated)

Stroger

Medicare

Payor Mix Requirement
Dependencies
Timeline
Reimbursement (estimated)

Provident Payor Mix Requirement
Dependencies
Timeline

Eligible Provider

Hospital

$21,250 per provider year 1, 
$63,750 total over 6 years
30% Title 19 Medicaid by 
provider or panel
Provider Panels; Waiver;
Provider Panels;
Medicaid coverage
Summer 2012
$21,250 per provider year 1, 
y
$63,750 total over 6 years
30% Title 19 Medicaid by 
provider or panel
Provider Panels; Waiver;
Medicaid coverage
Summer 2012
$18,000 per provider year 1; 
$44,000 total over 5 years
Bill Medicare by NPI (i.e., 
professional billing)
professional billing)
PowerChart 2012 Build
Fall 2012
$18,000 per provider year 1; 
$44,000 total over 5 years
Bill Medicare by NPI (i.e., 
professional billing)
PowerChart 2012 Build
Fall 2012

$11,049,747.20
over 3–6 years
10% Medicaid for Hospital 
Population

Page 30 of 32

Winter‐Spring 2012
1,978,062.94
over 3‐6 years
y
10% Medicaid for Hospital 
Population

Winter‐Spring 2012
2,738,118.88 over 4 years
Bill Medicare using Hospital 
NPI
PowerChart 2012 Build
Summer 2012
1,415,851.55 over 4 years
Bill Medicare using Hospital 
NPI
PowerChart 2012 Build
Summer 2012

 Meaningful Use Core Criteria (All must be met)
EP

HOSPITAL
‐1

Electronic Prescribing
Computerized Physician Order Entry
Electronic Problem Lists
Electronic Problem Lists
Electronic Medication Lists
Electronic Allergy List
Electronic Demographic Information
Electronic Demographic Information
Electronic Vital Signs
Electronic Smoking Status
Electronic Copy of Records Given On Request
Electronic Copy of Records Given On Request
Electronic Patient Summary Given to Outpatients after Visit
Electronic Discharge Instructions Given to Patients at 
Discharge
Electronic Medication Error Checking
Electronically Measure CMS Quality Measures
Clinical Decision Support Rule
Clinical Decision Support Rule
Exchange Data Electronically 
Security and Risk Analysis of EHR  
Page 31 of 32

1

1

1

1

0

1

1

1

1

1

0

1

0

1

‐1

1

‐1

‐1

1

1

0

0

1

1

‐1

‐1

0

0

 Meaningful Use Menu Criteria (5 must be met)
EP

HOSPITAL
1

1

Electronic Laboratory Test Results
‐1

Electronic Reminders to Patients
Electronic Reminders to Patients
‐1

Electronic Access to records for patients
‐1

‐1

‐1

‐1

‐1

‐1

Provide Electronic Patient Education
Provide Electronic Patient Education
Electronic Medication Reconciliation
Electronic Summary of Care with Care Transition
y
0

Electronic Documentation 
1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Electronic Drug Formulary Checks
Electronic Patient Lists based on Conditions
Electronic Immunization Registry Submission
Electronic Syndromic Surveillance Data Submission
1

Electronic Communicable Disease Data Submission
Page 32 of 32

 