Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, April
26, 2013 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler;
Edward L. Michael; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM; Carmen
Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (8)

Present
Telephonically: Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)
Absent:

None (0)

Chairman Carvalho stated that Director Morris is unable to be physically present, but is able to participate in the
meeting telephonically.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to allow Director Morris to
participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Morris indicated his presence telephonically.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance and Privacy
Officer
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. –State’s Attorney’s Office
Susan Greene – System Interim Director of Managed
Care
Claudia Fegan, MD – Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director Stroger Hospital

II.

Nancy Jarasek – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County
Gladys Lopez – System Chief of Human Resources
John O’Brien, MD – Director of Professional
Education
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – System Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

George Blakemore
Dr. Rahman
Sara Buck
Vadim Gershteyn
Richard David, MD

6.

Sheila Agnew

Concerned Citizen
Former Employee
Concerned Citizen
Concerned Citizen
Co-Director, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Registered Nurse, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Page 1 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 26, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, March 28, 2013
Director Michael, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the Minutes
of the Board of Directors Meeting of March 28, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, April 10, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director Michael indicated that a report regarding patient satisfaction
with respect to the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County is expected to be presented
at the next Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting.
Director Michael, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of April 10, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, April 10, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director Velasquez inquired regarding the definition of
“underinsured” as it relates to CountyCare. Chairman Carvalho stated that a report on that subject can be
provided through the Finance Committee. He noted that there is consideration for the underinsured within the
System’s CareLink Policy (charity care policy); with regard to CountyCare, he stated that he believes those
eligibility determinations are under the Medicaid Waiver.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Michael, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of April 10, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Note: the motion to approve the minutes remained pending until after the adjournment of
closed session; at that time, final action was taken and the minutes were approved.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, April 19, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director O’Donnell provided an overview of one of the contractual
items recommended for approval at the meeting; this was a request to amend and increase the contract with
Sodexo America, LLC. She noted that the performance measures relating to the contract have been shared
with the Finance Committee Members; this information can also be forwarded to the Board. Director
Michael stated that most of the performance indicators or measures appear to only go through June 2013. He
stated that it would be helpful for the Board to understand what those measures are going to be once those are
negotiated beyond June of this year, both in the Environmental and Food Services areas, because they are an
important part of the patient experience and patient satisfaction levels; he requested that the administration
follow up with regard to that subject.

Page 2 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 26, 2013
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, April 19, 2013 (continued)
The Board discussed the information provided in the update to the Finance Committee regarding CountyCare.
Director Velasquez inquired further regarding the upcoming change in the process that reflects that the State
will now be responsible to verify citizenship. Director O’Donnell noted that typically the State has performed
this function with respect to Medicaid applications, so it is a natural function of the State; she added that they
have many more tools at their disposal to do so. Chairman Carvalho inquired as to how this change will be
communicated to those who are currently performing this function. Susan Greene, System Interim Director
of Managed Care, stated that System staff recently met with representatives of the Illinois Department of
Healthcare and Family Services (HFS), the Illinois Department of Human Services (DHS), and the
Governor’s Office regarding that subject; the System is waiting for them to issue a policy change to DHS, and
then training can be scheduled. She stated that a message is going out today to all application assisters and to
Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officers of the Federally-Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) that
starting May 1, those applications that are forty-five days or older that are complete except for verification of
citizenship should be submitted.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Michael, moved the approval of the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of April 19, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho voted PRESENT on request numbers 1 and 2, under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.

E. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, April 19, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, with regard to the information provided on the vacancies being filled,
Director Velasquez asked whether there is a breakdown that reflects the number of clinical and non-clinical
positions being filled. Gladys Lopez, System Chief of Human Resources, responded that the breakdown will
be provided in the report going forward.
Director Butler, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Human Resources Committee Meeting of April 19, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A.

Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contracts and Procurement Items presented for the Board’s consideration.

B.

Request for authorization to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Illinois Department of Public Health and the County of Cook, on behalf of its Cook County Health
and Hospitals System and the Office of the County Clerk for Cook County
This item was withdrawn from consideration.

Page 3 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 26, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items (continued)
C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII
D. Request for authorization to enter into and execute a Lease Schedule, pursuant to the Replacement
Master Lease Agreement with Banc of America Leasing and Capital Corp., LLC, for the leasing of a
fully equipped modular office building (Attachment #1)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, presented the request for the Board’s
consideration.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Michael, moved the approval of the request
for authorization to enter into and execute a Lease Schedule, for the leasing of a fully
equipped modular office building. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho noted that from time to time subjects or issues are raised at these meetings during the
presentation of public testimony. When this occurs, he assigns them to the appropriate Committee for further
review, discussion or follow-up activities; this allows the Committees to hear the matter in more detail and allows
all of the facts to be presented. He added that it does not behoove the orderly conduct of business of the Board to
react on an ad-hoc basis to unsupported or unsubstantiated comments without the thorough review of the issue
through the Committees.
A. Board Education – Ethics Reporting Requirements (Attachment #2)
Cathy Bodnar, System Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of the information
regarding ethics reporting requirements. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
With regard to the requirement that Board Members file their Statement of Economic Interests with the Office
of the Cook County Clerk by May 1st, several Directors indicated that they had not received the
communication from the Clerk’s Office that is needed to file their Statements, or indicated that they had
experienced issues in trying to file their Statements. Ms. Bodnar indicated that she would follow up with
those Directors after the meeting in order to assist them with this activity.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #3)
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration, provided an update on the following subjects on behalf of Dr.
Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer: Cook County Department of Public Health Update; Cook County Health
Foundation; Human Resources Update; Introduction of Staff; and Employee Recognition.
The report included the recognition of the following individuals from the System’s Human Resources
Department:





Geri Evans
Antoinette Middleton
Charmaine Jackson
LaKeisha Freeman
Page 4 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 26, 2013
Page 5

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, April 10, 2013
C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, April 19, 2013
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims
as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or
discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental
risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and
governmental audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion
involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or
suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards of the United States of America.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Michael, Muñoz,
O’Donnell, Velasquez and Wiese (8)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Director Morris (1)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.

Page 5 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 26, 2013
Page 6

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 24

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
April 26, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 24

 ("mix (?uunly Board of('mmnissinncn

(?nuk (701ml): Health llmpilals 8351mm l?imn'd

 

       
 

. .
[um I rukmnl?h 0 1?11 sadml Health 55511-in Board 

Commissioner Jcrr} Ilutlcr
Quin R. (ioldm
lidward L. Michael
Rev. (lulvin S. Morris. PM)

David Cannillu . (Tliuiwaan

Surgi- Ramirez Vice Chairman

('wk County Health <52 Hospitals Si?slrm Board Luis Ml)
. . . . llcuihcr l1. 0 Drunk!?
Ram Raj" Ml). It-K'Hle (?liO (?amwn Velasqucl

(?nunly Health Hospitals System harem? Wiese. lid!)

Date: April 23, 2013

To: David Carvalho, Chairman
Board of Directors, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Heather O?Donnell, Chairman
Finance Committee, Board of Directors, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

From: Regina M. Besenhofer, Director Supply Chain Management

Subject: Lease Schedule under replacement Master Lease Agreement with Banc of America
Leasing Corp and Capital Corp., LLC

In August 2010, pursuant to the authorization by this Board, the into a replacement
Master Lease Agreement with Banc of America Leasing and Capital Corp., LLC (?Banc of America") for the
purposes of leasing capital equipment beginning in 2010. Under the Master Lease the parties may enter
into Lease Schedules with respect to specific items of equipment to be leased.

Under the Master Lease, the interest rate for each Lease Schedule is based upon the three-year United
States Treasury Maturity SWAP rate. The amounts payable under each lease schedule may therefore vary
depending upon changes in this indicator.

We are requesting you to authorize the Chairman to enter into and execute a lease schedule to permit
to lease a fully equipped modular office building. The lease schedule will not be presented to the
Chairman for execution until all proper Procurement processes have been completed including the
responsiveness of County Compliance for participation.

The estimated maximum acquisition cost for this item is $500,000. This equipment will be leased
pursuant to one or more lease schedules under the replacement Master Lease Agreement. The
lease schedule shall have a term of 36 months and interest shall be based on the then?current
SWAP rate. In the event Banc of America is required to make certain interim payments to the
manufacturer at the time of the purchase and equipment delivery, a related agreement will be
entered into with Banc of America, in addition to the applicable Lease Schedule, or will be included
in the amounts due under the applicable lease schedule at the rate of PRIME minus 

Under the lease schedule, control and use of the equipment will rest entirely with the Health System. The
equipment is being acquired by Banc of America based on the Health System?s specifications and

acquisition pricing secured by the Health System. i .
APPROVED
APR 2 6 2013

BY BOARD OF

 

v.4:

 

 

  

 

4 ??amhwiatew $2 ?ea?k gamma teem-m: ?eaegms a ?op


?ehw ?t ?fteger; 9 ?ags: gmaae?? ?am??a ?rew?t?en? Rm '2

539m?

we a

ante? *9

 

We Bring to Your Community

Page 8 of 24

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
April 26, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 9 of 24

 Economic Reporting
Requirements

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
Chief Compliance Privacy Officer



 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
.1 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Page 10 of 24

Meeting Objectives
 To provide a reminder regarding the annual filing of the Statement
of Economic Interest.
 To kick-off
kick off the Accounting of Disclosures Survey to the CCHHS
Board of Directors.

Page 11 of 24

 Statement of Economic Interest
What?
A requirement under the Illinois
Governmental Ethics Act (5ILCS 420/4A-101)
Who?
“Persons appointed to the governing board of
a unit of local government”
Where?
Through a website managed by the Cook
Countyy Clerk’s Office
When?
Complete by May 1, 2013!

Page 12 of 24

 Questions?

Page 13 of 24

  
    

 

8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM


2
.4

?r

 

CCHHS Conflict of Interest Policy
The purpose of the policy is to
H l tto ensure that
Help
th t th
the business
b i
andd professional
f i l activities
ti iti are
conducted free of actual conflicts of interest, or the appearance of
any conflicts of interest, and to protect the interests of CCHHS.
Annually, a required reporter must
1) Receive
R i a copy off th
the C
Conflict
fli t off IInterest
t
tP
Policy;
li
2) Read and understand the Policy; and
3) Complete a Disclosure of Interest Statement.

Page 14 of 24

 Accounting of Disclosures Survey
CCHHS Corporate Compliance Goal
To deploy system-wide conflict of interest data collection tool for annual
attestation and reporting changes throughout the year.
Executive
Leadership

April 9, 2013

Audit &
Compliance
Committee of the
Board of Directors

Board of Directors

R
Required
i d Fil
Filers

Page 15 of 24

April 10, 2013

Today!
April 26, 2013

May 2,
2 2013

 Next Steps
1)
2)
3)
4))
5)

Access the internet;
Go to the website;
Follow the instructions on the screens;
Attest to the Conflict
C f off Interest policy; and
Complete the survey by May 31, 2013.

To reinforce our commitment to transparency and disclosure,
all responses will be posted to our public website after internal review.

Page 16 of 24

 Accoun?ng of Disclosures - Workforce

 

Welcome

Transparency is a critical CUFFEIDFIEE .: :0 our r?sissieh as a pthlic,

heath provider. We are dedieazed sem?e our

cewwshizj', :his includes alsr pr-aiessiohai ahuj The
TECHNOLOGY -.. 
- purpose 0 _has szseaose re precess Is .0 Idem?;- .. was
. acslsa? EDP-Flinn or have :3 .e appearance 03.1;ch and 
.
I "a safeguards. goai is :0 prozee: :he and asse:s of
i at Canal?: Emma} ? eal:h ahd Syster?, :he people who seek heath
'1 semices :l Ire-Is gh System the [away a? Corsair-e :aspayers e: COOL:
- -I {sushi}; and :he raL'rsuiiI: a: largeLoam
Filer 
. . . . -
Password
:3 .- .

is: 3313 - Coal Hearth Ce 

 

 

 

Page 17 of 24

 

Acco untir'rg of Disclosures? We ritforce

 

me, Test Filer [l'est123]

Through this Portal

?r'du will he asked to do two td E?mpi'll'witi'l C?DkC?lJl'lt?ll' Health and
Hospitals?vstem Conflitt Polity and se:ond,td submit an Annual Disclosure
E-unrev update responses alterathenge d::urs.

Change Password

Lillian! 

Please Change your Password Hen rumour

Seeuriti-lr polities requiretheti-lrdur password heehanged atthistirne. um huh-mm

Change Password 

Acco unti ng of Disclosures? We rkaorce

 

 

 

Welco me! Test 

H: 2-H I?Ili'H?l'h'l
?lb-I 'h?'ll??lh I HH I r?l IL 

Review?rourinformation

Please updatethe screen. Enterinformationinthe spaceprovided.

 

Questions about any ofthe other informaijon should be directedto CEHHS CorporateCompliance ati312) 3643335 or


 

Filer ID Test123

First Name Test

Last Name Filer

E-mail 
Title Primary Test

Phone

User Eat?g?ry Leadership

Cost?enter Test Site

IL. on: Inu cI 

..1 I'll 'Ir'l: :l 51: i-L??u 
{'th :1 cits-i 53-5-0

Page 18 of 24

 

 

 

Conflict of Interest Policy
Download Conflict of Interest Policy 

Here is a synopsis of the Conflict of Interesct Policy, please download the full policy.

Covered Persons shall not be involved in any situation or circumstance that would cause the Covered Person to have a Conflict of Interest. This
prohibition includes the Personal Relationships of the Covered Person.

No Covered Person shall accept any gift from any entity, or an employee, contractor or agent of an entity, with which or its operating units is
doing business or with which has done business within the past three years.

Covered Persons are responsible for addressing Conflicts of Interest, whether actual or those that have the appearance of a Conflict of Interest.
Covered Persons must comply with the provisions of this Policy. The Conflicts of Interest Policy covers the following areas:

. Conflicts of Interest in Day-to-Day Business Operations of Affiliates
. Conflicts of Interest in Patient Care

. Conflicts of Interest in Research Activities

. Conflicts of Interest in Educational Activities



All Covered Persons shall preserve and protect the interests and assets of The business and professional activities of must be
conducted in the best interests of without favoritism or preference based on personal considerations. Accordingly, each Covered Person must

r' I. I r'r

 

 

Introduction

- You will need applicable professional and ?nancial information for calendar year 2012 to complete this survey.
- Complete the survey in the order the questions are presented.
- The bar to the left side of the screen will show you how far along you are in the survey.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wclcul r'c 
mm;
:1 . In new? E12 did engage In any ndulry awn-n as munching sensing prov-?lm; ?matron!
Qu 1 B'oqra'ns, wM'lhcr or not 'roJ 'ete'md ar'f memmn for arr 01th: follm'nn Ltl'etl'. a1 the? apply]
95 Ian 3

ann?gn 4 A II-.al duf'. Imam .1, ?Jn well 1

. A lr-guuln [kg-graph?" Il'ai spun-Jr". ynu' trarartlh'

t" 6 hzr-pmln Luau-Lyman 'le (IWHB :nynhurc l' bank-.1? mcqm? (Tl'lh?i L'anZ (my? hull' :11 Hnwlu'x 

.
Qua '0 ?cu-:n John H. Su'cgar. Jr. Hospm closer:
I Holphl Hints: leorm Hosp-Lil offen- Ccvily. mi: Hun-J

Question 3 Hen-r A?'?ailx'y Ina Cornuniry "calm

. -.- 
Queshurl 5 Loren own dolor :1 ant-L ccnsecletut ice-aw; 91'. no e-Jsmo tmpor mam! ut Ial ?If ?u"_mm La." 

Cr?rak ltoaI-P Servo-es othu turn.- enha- the
Question 10 Jinx-1 In ?In .11! mm "-an qr. rug-Jud "trim Valium 11er Japan u. I
Look Lounly I?ll DI In: lerrooury Ju'nenue Detect-on
Question 11 rpm-r. nr me (not: (minty nnramwr cI Pahllr
Question 12 Inns Leaner IS anplwable [1 me. Hea to
Question 13
thrion 111
Question 15
Question 16
Question 17
Question 13
(9 l; haw- 6)

 

 

 

Page 19 of 24

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
April 26, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 20 of 24

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
April 26, 2013 
 
CCDPH UPDATE 
On Thursday, April 18, Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle declared a State of Emergency for 
Cook County.  CCDPH’s Incident Management Team went on standby to support the flood response lead 
by Cook County Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (DHSEM).   From April 
18 to the present,  CCDPH is providing support by giving DHSEM public health information on tetanus, 
boil  orders,  flood  clean  up,  and  infection  control.   Additionally, CCDPH  continues  to  directed  staff  and 
residents  to  the CCDPH  website  for  additional  public  health  information  on  issues  related  to  flooding. 
This  information  can  be  found  at:  http://www.cookcountypublichealth.org/prepare‐for‐
emergency/flood. CCDPH  remains  in  contact  with  other  health  departments  in  the  Chicago MSA  and 
IDPH.   
 
CCDPH has worked with the communities of Forest Park, Elmwood Park and River Forest (also known as 
Tripcom)  to  conduct  a  full  scale  exercise,  measuring  their  response  to  a  public  health  event  requiring 
mass dispensing. This was a continuation of their previous Tabletop Exercise (TTX) that was held in April 
2011.  The  exercise  took  place  over  the  course  of  two  days:  On  Thursday,  April  11,  2013,  leaders  of 
the Tripcom  communities activated  their joint Emergency  Operations Center  (EOC). On Saturday, April 
13,  2013, Tripcom  activated  their  Point  of  Dispensing  (POD)  to  exercise  the  operations  around  mass 
dispensing  of ciproflaxin  and  doxycycline.  The  exercise  was  an  overall  success.  Over  30  agencies 
participated,  totaling  approximately  300  participants. CCDPH  and Tripcom  are  currently  creating  their 
After Action Report and Improvement Plan.  
 
 
CCH FOUNDATION 
At  the  request  of  the  Health  and  Hospitals  System  the  Cook  County  Board  of  Commissioners,  at  their 
meeting  of  April  17,  2013,  approved  a resolution  encouraging  private  fund  raising  efforts  by  the  Cook 
County Health (CCH) Foundation.  The language of the resolution mirrors an ordinance that approved by 
the Chicago City Council pertaining to the Chicago Public Library Foundation.  The key clauses to the CCH 
Foundation are: 

Page 21 of 24

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that it shall be the policy of the County that private funding secured 
and  provided  by  the  Foundation  for  the  benefit  of  the  Health  System  will  supplement,  rather  than 
supplant, public funding; and 
BE  IT  FURTHER  RESOLVED,  that  private  funding  may  be  expended  by  the  Foundation  or  by  the  County 
through the Health System to accomplish the purposes designated by the Foundation and its Foundation 
contributors  without  imposition  of  requirements  or  limitations  otherwise  applicable  to  purchases  made 
by the County or on the County’s behalf; and 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County and its Health System will use their best efforts to cooperate 
with and assist the Foundation in its efforts to solicit private funding in support of the Health System. 

 
Additionally,  the  Interim  Directors  of  the  CCH  Foundation  met  on  April  18,  2013  and  approved  a 
resolution authorizing the Foundation to open an operating account at Chase Bank.  This will enable the 
Foundation to deposit the grant of funds received from the Health System as well as the donation from 
the Rauner Family Foundation. 
 
HUMAN RESOURCES UPDATE 
The  HR  Department  continues  working  to  fill  system  vacancies.    In  FY  2013  (through  April  8th)  223 
vacancies have been filled.  On April 22nd an additional 40 vacancies were filled, for a total of 263.  By 
comparison, in 2012 ‐ 346 vacancies were filled over the course of an entire year.  We recognize we are 
not  yet  where  we  want  to  be,  but  with  assistance  and  support  from  the  County  Bureau  of  Human 
Resources, made a concerted effort over the past couple of months to fill needed vacancies within the 
HR department as follows: 
 
o Talent Acquisition Manager – start date 04/08/13 
o Senior HR Coordinator, Cermak – start date 04/22/13 
o Senior HR Coordinator, Outpatient North – start date 04/22/13 
o 6 Recruiting & Selection Analysts – start date 04/22/13 
o 2 Recruiting & Selection Analysts – start date 05/06/13 
o 2 HR Assistants – start date 04/22/13 
 Working to fill another HR Assistant vacancy 
o 1 HR Specialist – start date 04/22/13 
 Working to fill another HR Specialist vacancy 
o Compensation Manager – start date 05/06/13 
o Class & Compensation Analyst – start date 05/20/13 
o RN Recruiter – start date 05/20/13 
o Director, Human Resources, Outpatient Services – anticipate extending offer 04/26/13 
o Physician Recruiter – interviews concluded  
 
Filling needed vacancies within HR allows us to increase the number of vacancies filled systemwide. 
2   P a g e  
 

Page 22 of 24

 INTRODUCTION  
Letitia Close – Chief of Staff to the CEO 
Letty Close has extensive intergovernmental affairs experience having previously worked for the city of 
Chicago, the Chicago Transit Authority and Cook County.  
 
RECOGNITION  
This  month  we  recognize  our  Human  Resources  Staff.    This  group  of  4  individuals  joined  Recruiting 
during  a  very  critical  time  when  the  organization  was  short  staffed  and  we  were  building  the 
Recruiting  Department.   They  each  contributed  and  helped  to  shape  the  department,  its  image  and 
rebuild credibility with Hiring Managers.  They have been instrumental in working with the Shakman 
Compliance  Administrator’s  Office  to  better  understand  processes  and  ensure  compliance.  
Frequently, this team has been in the office as early as 5 am; stayed late into evening and worked on 
weekends.  Their dedication and commitment has resulted in the significant progress made this past 
year. 
 
Geri Evans ‐ Talent Acquisition Manager, has been with County for almost 20 years.  For the past 
year,  she  has  served  in  the  critical  role  of  managing  the  recruiting  function  at  CCHHS.   It  has 
been  under  her  leadership  and  direction  that  we  accomplished  several  milestones;  including 
filling RN vacancies last year resulting in the reopening of beds closed in late 2011 as a result of 
RN resignations; building and training a team of professionals who could not only manage the 
workload,  but  understand  the  nuisances  involved  with  the  paperwork,  hiring  and  onboarding 
process unique to the County. 
 
Antoinette  Middleton  ‐  has  been  with  CCHHS  for  2  years  and  was  recently  promoted  to  the 
position of Senior HR Coordinator for Outpatient Services.  Antoinette came to Stroger on loan 
from  Provident  a  year  ago  and  brought  with  her  a  fierce  determination  and  infectious  energy 
that has helped get the team through some very difficult and rough times.   
 
Charmaine Jackson ‐ has also been with CCHHS for 2 years now and was recently promoted to 
the position of Recruiting & Selection Analyst.  Like Antoinette, Charmaine came to Stroger on 
loan  from  Oak  Forest  a  year  ago.   The  tasks  and  challenges  were  daunting  and  Charmaine 

3   P a g e  
 

Page 23 of 24

 tackled  them  as  they  came  along  with  professionalism  and  a  determination  to  ensure 
compliance with processes. 
 
LaKeisha Freeman ‐ began with CCHHS last August and in less than year has made a significant 
impact to our hiring initiatives.  Most recently, Ms. Freeman has assumed primary responsibility 
as the sole Recruiting & Selection Analyst supporting the Cermak Health System.  Her drive and 
resolve in assisting our Cermak Hiring Managers with filling vacancies the past few months has 
resulted in the processing and onboarding of over 40 new hires. 
 
With the onboarding of recent HR hires, the HR Department will position itself to fully support CCHHS’ 
hiring initiatives. 

4   P a g e  
 

Page 24 of 24

 