CHANGE.

CHICAGO HOUSWG AWDRW

 

November 13, 2012 ITEM 0. C2

AUTHORIZATION TO ADOPT THE
CITY OF PAID PARENTAL LEAVE POLICY

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

TI 
[t is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee
to adopt the attached Resolution entitled: City of Chicago?s Paid Parental Leave Policy.

The Executive Vice-President of Finance/Chief Financial Officer and the Of?ce of the General Counsel
have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of this action and recommend the
approval of this item accordingly.

To expand our capacity to recruit and retain talent. It also helps us to be competitive with the private
sector which typically offers six weeks of paid leave. Additionally, it?s a good business practice which
will help to improve employee morale.

BA 
On July 31, 2011 and December 20, 2011, the CHA along with other Chicago Sister Agencies and City
Departments adopted the City of Chicago?s Employee Reimbursement and Local Mileage
Reimbursement Other Local Transportation Policies respectively. Incorporating policies in this
manner helps us to achieve consistency across agencies and it allows us to tap into the City of Chicago?s
leadership in implementing policies which mirror best practices in the private sector.

On November 1, 2011, the City of Chicago adopted its ?rst Paid Parental Leave Policy for non- union
employees. Pregnant city workers who are the birth mothers are now o?'ered up to four weeks of paid
maternity leave after a non-surgical delivery and up to six weeks a?er a C-section delivery. Their spouses
or partners on the city payroll will get up to two weeks off with pay. Adoptive parents will also get up to
two weeks off.

The new Paid Parental Leave Policy is con?ned to non-union city employees. For pregnant women who
belong to unions, the change will have to wait until new contracts are negotiated.

An employee wishing to take the paid leave must also be eligible to leave under the Family Medical
Leave Act (FMLA). An employee is eligible for FMLA leave is he or she has been employed with the
Chicago Housing Authority for at least twelve (12) months before taking leave and has worked at least
1,250 hours during the 12-month period prior to the leave.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable Chicago
Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The Executive Vice-President of Finance/Chief Financial Of?cer concurs with the recommendation to
adopt the City of Chicago?s Paid Parental Leave Policy.

The CEO/President recommends that the Board of Commissioners approve the adoption of the City of
Chicago?s Paid Parental Leave Policy.

50E. Van Huron Street - Chicago, Illinois 00005-1207 - 740-8500 - m. workman:

RESOLUTION NO. 

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 13,
2012 entitled TO ADOPT THE CITY OF 
PAID PARENTAL LEAVE 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT the Board of Commissioners (?Board") authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to adopt the City of Chicago?s Paid Parental Leave Policy dated
November 8, 2011, attached hereto as Exhibit A and directs the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to see that all necessary steps are taken to implement the
adopted policy by November 21, 2012.

THAT by the adoption of the City of Chicago?s Paid Parental Leave Policy any and all
con?icting language found in Chicago Housing Authority?s policies and procedures
are hereby superseded.



   

 

an Van ma 5am . Chicago, Illinois 60605- 1207- (312) 74295500 - m. airemaforg

