Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
February 21, 2012
Charles A. Hayes – Family Investment Center – 4859 S. Wabash
Name
Francine Washington

Question/Comment

Response

1) You should hire CHA youth for internship
opportunities.
2) In January of 2011, you purchased acquisition
units. You purchased 23, 8 and 6 units. Why are you
purchasing these units when you're tearing down
high-rises? The units you're purchasing are just like
high-rises.

1) CHA currently has 12 interns on staff. Of those 12 interns, six
are CHA youth. The CHA internship program places an
emphasis on hiring CHA youth, and will continue to do so. CHA
will begin recruitment for 2012 summer interns on March 30.
Interested candidates should submit their cover letter and
resume to Nancy Owens - nowens@thecha.org
2) It is unclear what acquisitions are being referred to in the
comment. CHA has two programs to provide units which could
be the source of the comment. First, for the Property Investment
Initiative(PII) CHA acquires homes to accommodate the housing
needs of larger public housing families, and these unit
acquisitions have not been in high-rise buildings . CHA has
focused on acquiring units in opportunity areas which provides
residents the prospect to live in neighborhoods with access to
community amenities.

1

Second, the Property Rental Assistance (PRA) program
commits property-based vouchers to privately developed and
owned housing units in properties within Chicago’s stable and
revitalizing neighborhoods. CHA does not acquire units in the
PRA program. The PRA executes long-term housing assistance
payment contracts with private owners that enables the program
to provide housing options for specific populations such as:
working families, seniors, formerly homeless, veterans,
intergenerational housing and persons with specific disabilities.

1

 William Lawrence Scott

1) My first concern is the NATO/G-8 summit, I would
like CHA to be involved in the type of planning that
local businesses have been involved in. CHA
residents should be notified of safety measures.
2) I am concerned about the levels of senior services
that CHA offers. Why can't we have more coordinated
efforts for activities?
3) Lastly, I want to thank Commissioner King for
putting the calendar together, I read the entire thing
and it was helpful.

Manor Whiley

1) I am a resident at Hilliard and I work for Caritas. I
learned so much from this program and I will work for
free to keep our residents lease-compliant. What can
we get back in place to be able to work with residents
to keep them lease compliant? We need to keep this
program going. Commissioners Young, King and
Beverely have worked with us a lot - we should rethink
this budget cut.

2

3

1) The CHA is an active participant in all meetings arranged by
the City of Chicago in reference to the upcoming NATO summit.
We understand your concerns regarding safety and therefore we
are doing everything within our power to ensure that our
residents are not negatively impacted by any activities that will
take place during this time. Safety measures and contingency
plans are currently in development and will be shared with all
residents in the near future.
2) All of the senior buildings have Resident Service Coordinators
(RSC) who’s responsibility is to improve the quality of life for
residents by linking residents to services which help them live
independently. RSCs are also responsible for providing at least
two social activities and one educational activity per month.
Staff will work with resident leadership to provide more activities
if the residents are interested - any input is always welcomed.
3) Thank you for your comment.
FamilyWorks providers participate in monthly coordination
meetings to address all non-lease compliance issues. Each
week the FamilyWorks providers receive lease violations from
Property Managers and they offer assistance to residents to
resolve the issues. (FamilyWorks is a voluntary program and
not all residents accept services.)
Unless it is a property that requires drug testing, residents do
not receive a lease violation due to substance abuse; rather it is
the behavioral result of substance use that could lead to a
violation (e.g. non-payment of rent, anti-social behavior).
FamilyWorks offers to work with the resident to explore what is
going on that led to the violation and creates strategies and
plans to resolve the issue.
If a resident who has a lease violation due to a behavioral result
of substance abuse is not ready to quit or refuses to work with
the FamilyWorks provider, he/she would be told that continued
failure to cure the lease violation would lead to eviction. Neither
FamilyWorks nor the Caritas program can set aside substance
abuse treatment slots for residents. Thus, our FamilyWorks
clinical teams have become the de-facto intervention program
through group and individual counseling services.

2

 Betty Thompson

4

Larry Gardner

5

Shela Clay
6

1) I want to give Kudos to the construction team for
the stairwells at Lake Parc Place. They did a great
job with this.
2) Sitting in the audience, I don't think I heard yay or
nay on Item B1 - I don't know if I heard a yes or a no
to this. Can the Commissioners take a vote on this
again?
3) The last thing I want to say is related to what
Commissioner Harris said about Ida B. Wells. I used
to come here before this place was the FIC. Let's give
Charles Hayes and Ida B. Wells their due, let's
acknowledge them more than every now and then.
I live in San Diego and I am proud to have the
opportunity to come here. I wrote a letter to CHA, I am
a property owner in the voucher program. On January
17, I wrote a letter and on January 26, my issue was
resolved. I would like to give thanks to Leticia Rivera
and Marisol Caraballo on your staff. This is an
impressive turnaround. One of my residents was told
to move and we resolved the issue and they can stay.
As an advocate, I want to make sure that other people
are given the same attention as me. Thank you
Commissioner King. There is an opportunity for CHA
and you are doing great work.
I am a participant in your program. What is the
process for administrative review? I have a complaint
about the voucher program. What is the procedure for
administrative review?

3

1 + 3) Thank you for your comments.
2) Item B1 was Board approved. Approval of this item
authorizes the CEO or his designee to award 18 Indefinite
Delivery, Indefinite Quanity Task Order contracts for general
contracting work at various CHA Senior, Family, Scattered Site
and Non-Dwelling Developments.

Thank you for your comment.

CHA has conducted an internal review regarding Ms. Clays
specific matter. After conducting this review, CHA has
determined there are no administrative remedies available to the
participant.

 