BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES
MARCH 15, 2019, 12:08 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT
William F. Conlon, Chair
Nancy C. Andrade
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson
David L. Daskal
Dr. Daisy S. Lezama
Hon. Barbara McDonald

STAFF PRESENT
Steven I. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT
Zaid Abdul-Aleem

I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Board VOTED 5-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to approve the open session
minutes, as amended, of the Board’s meeting of February 22, 2019.

II.

CHAIR’S REPORT
The Chair addressed a number items.
1.

For future meetings, there should be a section of the agenda devoted to comments from individual
Board members, and any member of the public who wishes to comment respectfully, to hear what is
on the minds of members of the public both in terms of ongoing concerns, and potential changes to the
law.

2.

The Board intends to present a list and analysis of suggested amendments to the Governmental Ethics
Ordinance to the new Mayor, once she takes office. Among topics to be considered: the status of the
“Aspirational Code of Conduct,” §2-156-005. Sub-sections of this provision that are meaningful should
be codified and enforceable, and those that are not enforceable should simply be eliminated. To have
an aspirational code weakens the Board of Ethics and conveys the impression that the standards
embodied within the section are not to be taken seriously.

3.

The concept of “fiduciary duty” should be expanded, in particular to cover situations where an
alderman bullies a private business and engages in what could be called “thuggery,” for example, the
incident involving the Double Door. And, it could address civility: it is a complete embarrassment to
the City, the City Council and all City public servants when one alderman calls another a “pile of sh*t” –
should the Board simply leave it at that, and comment that it’s offensive, or should there be a power,
for example, to censure public officials for “conduct unbecoming?”

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 2
Board member David Daskal agreed, and said he believes that encouraging the public to comment and
ask general questions of the Board and its staff at these meetings will greatly raise not only the
agency’s profile, but ignite greater and broader interest in the topics of conflicts of interests and other
ethics-related areas.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT

At 12:10 p.m. Member Dr. Daisy S. Lezama joined the meeting.

A.

Amendments to the Ordinance
One package of the Mayor’s submitted amendments to the Governmental Ethics Ordinance was held
up in the City Council’s Rules and Ethics Committee earlier this week, on Tuesday, March 12. I
briefed aldermen on the proposal on February 28 and March 7. My testimony at the March 12
committee meeting has been posted on our website. The Board can itself amplify some of the
proposed changes, and submit others, when it wishes, after the run-off elections, when the new
Mayor assumes her office.
However, as noted below, the other package, which was actually submitted four (4) months ago,
passed unanimously. It does two things: (i) effective immediately upon passage, subjects the City’s
appointed officials to the same standards and section of the Ordinance regarding sexual harassment
as elected officials; and (ii) beginning in 2020, pushes the filing deadline for most filers of
Statements of Financial Interests to May 1 every year, rather than May 31.
The text of the first change was posted on our website that afternoon. The second will be posted
sometime after June 1, 2019, so as to minimize confusion about this year’s filing deadline, which
remains May 31.

B.

Education
Classes and Other Presentations
Since the Board’s last regularly scheduled meeting, 42 employees attended classes here on
February 26 and March 7. There are 92 scheduled for March 19 and 26, and April 9 and 16.
All Board classes cover sexual harassment.
On March 12, I made a 60 minute presentation to graduate students from the DePaul School of
Public Health on ethics in organizations and government agencies.
On dates to be set, we will present classes for the aldermen and staff of the 2nd, 43rd and 38th
Wards.
On-line Training
For appointed officials
We are finalizing a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this Board.
Currently the sexual harassment section is being reviewed by the Department of Human
Resources, which is revising the City’s EEO Policy, and may include appointed officials within its

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 3
ambit. When the program is completed, we will email it to all appointed officials, and have them
complete it, with the assistance of the Office of Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs
(which is responsible for coordinating the appointments of all Mayoral appointees/appointed
officials). An Ordinance was submitted to City Council, at our request, and at the request of the
Mayor’s Office, provide that all appointed officials are subject to the Ordinance’s prohibition
against sexual harassment. It was approved at the March 13 City Council meeting.
For lobbyists
The 2018-2019 lobbyist training program is being posted today.
For all employees and aldermen
We have begun drafting this training, but have delayed it, due to possible Ordinance
amendments.

C.

City Council Educational Initiative/Handbook
In conjunction with the Law and Finance Departments, Office of Inspector General (“IG”), and
members and staff of the City Council, including representatives from its various caucuses, the
Board met January 16 and February 27, March 27, April 16, and May 21, and attended briefings
with aldermen on December 4 to finalize a “handbook” that will address and provide guidance on
certain issues common to aldermen and their staff; these include some ethics ordinance issues. The
Board, Law Department, and IG are acting under the guidance of the City Council on this project, in
an effort to identify and promote various best practices. The Board submitted its extensive
comments and entries, covering topics from political activity to social media to recusals.
We submitted brief revisions to the Handbook on February 19.

D.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws (“COGEL”)
COGEL’s 2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott in early
December of that year. We will work closely with the current and next Mayor’s Office, City Council,
and Budget Office to ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450 ethics, campaign
financing, lobbying, freedom of information, and election administration officials from across the
U.S. and Canada to attend, plus private practitioners and academics. We are serving on the
conference’s program committee, and will be reaching out to various elected and appointed
officials, attorneys, public figures, and media personnel to serve on panel discussions or otherwise
contribute to the Conference. We will co-host the Conference with our colleagues at the Chicago
Board of Election Commissioners, Illinois State Board of Elections, and Illinois State Executive
Ethics Commission, and possibly other local agencies involved in ethics or freedom of information
administration.
As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and continue to
chair the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to showcase our agency,
our mission, our ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, and election administration colleagues at the
City, County, and State levels. And I am hoping that our Board members will lend support to make
the 41st Conference nonpareil.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 4
On March 7 and 8, we had productive program meetings, and the program has largely been set. It
will include two Chicago-centric breakout sessions. We are excited about it, and have extended
invitations to several locally-based potential participants.

E.

Executive Editorship – Public Integrity/Guardian Issue
I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is affiliated
with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor & Francis six (6)
times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and the COGEL Guardian to
bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition of the 2019 COGEL Guardian
will be published around May 1, 2019.

F.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers
We next meet on March 21 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental agencies: the
Cook County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges
of Chicago, and Chicago Housing Authority.

G.

2019 Statements of Financial Interests
On March 1, we sent filing notices to 3,688 City employees and officials (via email and U.S. first class
mail) notices regarding their requirement to file their 2019 Statements of Financial Interests before
June 1. This includes individuals identified by each Ward or alderman who fall into the definition in
the Ordinance of “City Council employee” even though they are paid as independent contractors. To
date, approximately 35% of required filers have completed their forms.
As of this writing, approximately 1,500 have filed, which is 40.6% compliance.
Forms are posted on our website as soon as they are processed by staff – our goal is to have all filed
forms posted within 24 hours of when they are filed. Once posted, they reside on the Board’s
website for seven (7) years from the date of filing, after which they are removed and destroyed,
pursuant to the Board’s Document Retention Schedule kept with the Illinois Secretary of State and
Local Records Commission of Cook County.
Note: part of the amendment package approved Wednesday by City Council is that, beginning in
2020, the deadline for filing Statements of Financial Interests will be pushed up to May 1, not May
31.

H.

Candidates’ Statements of Financial Interests
Pursuant to §2-156-150(d)(iii), each person who qualifies as a candidate for elected City office must
file a Statement of Financial Interests with the Board within five (5) days after so qualifying. By
following media reports – particularly those by thedailyline.com – Board staff tracks and notifies
each candidate in writing of the filing requirement. To date, 182 known qualified candidates (not
including incumbents) for the February 2019 Consolidated Municipal Election have been notified to
file, and all have done so. All candidates’ forms are posted on our website.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 5
Note: incumbents also must file, but their forms are posted and searchable through a different page.

I.

Advisory Opinions
Since the Board’s last meeting on February 22, we have issued 281 informal advisory opinions. The
leading categories were, in descending order: travel; gifts; City property (including proper website
postings or blockings); campaign financing; Statements of Financial Interests; post-employment;
and lobbying.
The leading City departments from which requesters came in this period were (in descending
order): Chicago Police Department; City Council; Mayor’s Office; Chicago Public Library;
Department of Public Health; and Department of Law.
Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This is the same practice that occurs with our colleagues at the New York City
Conflicts of Interest Board, who issue roughly the same number of informal opinions.) They form
the basis for much of our annual and periodic educational programs. Formal opinions are made
public, in full text, with names and other identifying information redacted out.

J.

Summary Index of Formal Advisory Opinions/Text of all Formal Advisory Opinions
Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board’s website (902 of them),
redacted in accordance with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions. Redacted opinions are
posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries and keywords for each of
these opinions are available on the Board’s searchable index of opinions. Only a handful of other
ethics agencies have comparable research tools.
We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public—though others issue
them confidentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an investigation or
enforcement.

K.

Waivers
Since July 1, 2013, the Board has had authority to grant waivers from certain provisions in the
Ethics Ordinance. The Board has granted three (3), each involving a former City employee. By law,
we make these waivers public.

L.

Summary Index of Board-Initiated Regulatory Actions/Adjudications/pre-2013
Investigations
We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions undertaken by
the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing or training
requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary of all regulatory
actions the Board undertook without an IG investigation.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 6
The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where authorized by
law to do so. There have been, to date, 116 such matters, but only in those that occurred after July
1, 2013 can the Board release the names of those found to have violated the Governmental Ethics
Ordinance.
The document makes clear that, despite comments made in the media over the last decade, the
Board has been a robust enforcement agency, hardly a “do-nothing” agency. This continues through
the Board’s ongoing regulatory actions, described above, and with respect to lobbying and
campaign financing, even though the Board no longer has investigative authority.

M.

Summary Index of Ongoing IG/LIG Investigations/Adjudications
We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing the status
of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the IG (a total of eight (8)
since July 1, 2013) and the former Office of the Legislative Inspector General (“LIG”), since January
1, 2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to commence investigations presented to the Board by the
LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions.
Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG believes
there have been any violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the procedure that follows is
governed by §2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board reviews the IG’s report,
recommendations, and the entirety of evidence submitted in its completed ethics investigation,
including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the requirement that it complete ethics
investigations within two (2) years of commencing them (unless there is evidence that the subject
took affirmative action to conceal evidence or delay the investigation), and that investigations are
commenced within two (2) of the last alleged act of misconduct.
Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a prima facie finding of probable
cause to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the allegations and
affords the subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet with the Board,
together with an attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance provides that this
meeting is ex parte – no one from the City’s Law Department or IG is present. Note that the Board
may request clarification from the IG as to any evidence adduced in its investigation before making
a probable cause finding (and indeed has done so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this
meeting, but can and does assess the subject’s credibility and the validity and weight of any
evidence the subject provides.
If the subject is unable to rebut the Board’s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board may enter
into a settlement agreement – all settlement agreements are made public – or the Board or subject
may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public. That hearing would be
held before an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed by the Department of Administrative
Hearings. The City would be represented by the Law Department (or a specially hired Assistant
Corporation Counsel for that purpose), and the subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of
the hearing, the ALJ submits his or her findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or
reject them, based solely on the record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in
which it finds one or more violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and
impose appropriate fines.
This process may seem cumbersome. However, it was added to the Ordinance and became effective
on July 1, 2013, based on specific recommendations of the Mayor’s Ethics Reform Task Force in Part

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 7
II of its 2012 Report – the primary purposes being (i): to guarantee due process for all those
investigated by the IG or former LIG; (ii) to ensure that only the Board of Ethics could make legal
determinations as to whether a person investigated by the IG or LIG violated the Ordinance, given
the Board’s extensive jurisprudence and unique expertise in ethics matters; and (iii) to balance due
process for those investigated by the IG with an accurate and precise adjudication by the Board of
Ethics and the public’s right to know of ethics violations.
On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail:
https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/Publications/EnforceProcedures.pdf
One (1) of these eight (8) IG matters remain pending, and in two (2) others, the Board has settled
the matters as to the primary subject, and commenced follow-up enforcement actions against
secondary subjects. Specifically:
In Case No. 18039.IG (corresponding to IG Case # 17-0082), the final investigative report was sent
to our office on November 30, 2018. The case involves prohibited gifts offered to a current and a
now-former City employee from a City subcontractor. At the Board’s February 2019 meeting, it
determined that the subcontractor and current City employees committed minor violations. Staff
sent a detailed explanation to the IG explaining the Board’s determination. The Board found
probable cause to conclude that the former City employee violated the Ordinance, and a subject
meeting is scheduled for April.
In Case No. 18012.IG (corresponding to IG Case #16-0240) the IG presented the Board with a fifth
completed investigation and petition for probable cause in April 2018. At the Board’s May 2018
meeting, it dismissed one part of the IG’s petition (the part of the case dismissed by the Board
pertained to the alderman’s job interviews with a potential post-City employer while that potential
employer had matters pending, finding that there was no evidence in the IG’s investigative record
to show that the alderman acted on any matters involving the potential employer and that the
employer had no matters pending before the alderman), but made a prima facie finding of probable
cause in the other. The matter involves violations of the Ordinance’s post-employment provisions
by a former alderman (the Ordinance’s post-employment provisions prohibit former aldermen
from engaging in lobbying the City for one year after leaving office). The Board settled the matter
with the former alderman for a $5,000 fine. At its January 2019 meeting, the Board also found
probable cause to conclude that the former alderman’s employer violated the Ordinance by
employing a lobbyist who failed to register as required by the Ordinance. The employer is subject
to a fine between $500-$2,000. That part of the case remains pending, and we are in settlement
negotiations.
In Case No. 18023.IG (corresponding to IG Case #17-0148), the IG presented its completed
investigative report and corroborating evidence on June 20, 2018. The case involves a now-former
employee who, the IG concluded (and identified as a former Water Management employee),
violated the Ordinance by accepting gifts to a Cubs’ post-season game from a business over which
he had official authority, in excess of the Ordinance’s $50 per source/per year limit, failed to report
the gift on his annual Statement of Financial Interests, and provided advice or assistance on matters
concerning City business that were not wholly unrelated to his City job. The Board made a prima
facie probable cause finding at its July 2018 meeting, and settled the matter with the former
employee for a $500 fine. At its January 2019 meeting, the Board found that there is probable cause
to conclude that the gift-giver violated the Ordinance by giving the former employee a prohibited
gift. A subject meeting is scheduled for April 2019. The gift-giver is subject to a fine between
$1,001- $5,000.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 8
Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after July 1, 2013, the Board
makes public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of the settlement
agreement.

N.

Disclosures of Past Violations
July 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the Board
about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or she committed
a past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that violation was minor or
non-minor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a confidential letter of admonition.
If it was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is advised that he or she may self-report to
the IG or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2) weeks, the Board must make that report.
Since the time this provision (§2-156-070(b)) became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board has
advised three (3) aldermen, two (2) aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City employee in an
operating department, one (1) department head and one (1) former department head that their
past conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases, one (1) involving an alderman, the
second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former department head, the Board concluded that the
apparent violations were not minor or technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff selfreported to the former LIG, and the former department head self-reported to the IG. Since the time
that all matters involving the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has informed us that
it has no record that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the matter involving the alderman,
and that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was closed, apparently without further
investigation by the LIG.
As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the IG on May 26, 2017,
with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board’s earlier conclusion
that the subject appeared to have committed a non-minor past violation of the Ordinance, then
advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions in the Ordinance. After the IG
investigated and confirmed the Board’s earlier conclusion, the matter was settled for a $1,500 fine.
The agreement is posted on our website.
In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred, the Board
sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by Ordinance.
There is no legal requirement imposed on the IG to report back to the Board on any actions it takes
on matters or persons referred to it by the Board, unless the IG completes an investigation and
submits a petition for a finding of probable cause to the Board based on that investigation. This is
unlike the arrangement in New York City between its Conflicts of Interests Board and Department
of Investigation.

O.

Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement
To date for 2019, there are 729 registered lobbyists. We have collected $355,575 in lobbyist
registration fees. First Quarter lobbying activity reports will be due on or before April 22. We will
send out reminders of this deadline to all lobbyists via email on March 29.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 9

P.

Freedom of Information Act
Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office has received one (1) request under the
Freedom of Information Act. The requestor asked for a list of collection agencies with whom the
Board worked; there being none, the requestor was advised that the request was directed to the
wrong department.

IV.

OLD BUSINESS
Discussion of pending amendments to the Municipal Code
The Executive Director reported that he testified on the Mayor’s proposed changes to the Ethics Ordinance
and Zoning Code at the March 12 meeting of the City Council’s Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics,
and shared his opening remarks (which are also posted on the Board’s website). Owing primarily to
proposed changes to the zoning process – which would constitute a change in the application of
“aldermanic privilege” – the proposal did not pass out of Committee. Some of the non-zoning changes in
the proposal are far-reaching, albeit controversial, but were not brought to a vote. It is unknown at this
time whether there will be another substitute ordinance presented by the Mayor.

V.

NEW BUSINESS
None

At 12:24 p.m., the Board VOTED 6-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, absent) to adjourn into Executive Session under: (i) 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(1) to discuss the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine
its validity. However, a meeting to consider an increase in compensation to a specific employee of a public body
that is subject to the Local Government Wage Increase Transparency Act may not be closed and shall be open to
the public and posted and held in accordance with this Act; (ii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to hear and discuss evidence or
testimony in closed hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental Ethics Ordinance Sections 2-156385 and -392, and the Board’s Rules and Regulations, 4., as amended, effective January 5, 2017, presented to a
quasi-adjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that the body prepares and makes
available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative reasoning; and (iii) 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act, whether for purposes of approval by
the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06.
At 1:40 p.m., the Board VOTED 6-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, absent) to reconvene into open session.
MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION
VI.

APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES
The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTING 6-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, absent) in open
session, to approve the executive session minutes, of the February 22, 2019 meeting.

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 10
VII.

CASEWORK
A.

Report on Status After Board’s Finding of Probable Cause to Conclude a Person
Misappropriated City-owned Property and Received and Improper Gift to a City Employee
Pursuant to §2-156-142 of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance
1.

Case No. 18039.IG, City-owned Property; Gifts
Staff reported that the subject is in the process of retaining counsel to handle this matter. In
the interim, the subject opted to attend a meeting with the Board at its May 17 Board meeting.

B.

Report on Status of Settlement Negotiations After Board’s Finding of Probable Cause to
Conclude a Person Employed an Unregistered Lobbyist Pursuant to §§2-156-305 of the
Governmental Ethics Ordinance
2.

Case No. 19008.C, City-owned Property; Prohibited Political Activity
By a 6-0 VOTE (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, absent), the Board determined that an aldermanic
candidate violated §2-156-060 of the Ordinance by showing photographs on electioneering
communications of the candidate wearing apparel that had the official City seal emblazoned
on it, but that these communications constituted a minor violation of the Ordinance,
considering the candidate’s self-reporting of the circumstances and the placement of the City
seal relative to the overall communications. The Board directed staff to issue a confidential
letter of admonition to the candidate and work with the Chicago Police, Fire and Law
Departments to issue guidance as to the use of Police and Fire department personnel,
insignias and equipment in electioneering and other political communications.

C.

Dismissed and Referred Complaints
3.

Case No. 19013.C, City-owned Property
Staff reported that it had reviewed an aldermanic Twitter account after it received a
complaint from an individual who had been blocked from following the account. Staff
reviewed the account and concluded that the account was primarily political in nature.
Staff further reported that it had advised the alderman that City elected officials are not
prohibited from deleting comments and/or blocking followers from “political” social media
accounts and recommended that the alderman include a disclaimer on the account indicating
that it is not an official Twitter account of the City.

4.

Case No. 19014.C, City-owned Property
Staff reported that it had reviewed an aldermanic Twitter account after it was brought to
staff’s attention that the newsletter improperly mixed official City of Chicago business content
and electioneering content.
Staff further reported that in a letter to the alderman who had put out the newsletter, it
reminded the alderman that in its recent advisory opinion regarding social media use by

 Open Session Minutes
March 15, 2019
Page 11
elected officials, the Board determined that political/campaign content cannot be posted to an
official City social media account or included in a ward newsletter.

VIII.

OTHER BUSINESS
None

At 1:42 p.m., the Board voted 6-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, absent) to adjourn the meeting.
bd-minutes-4-26-19-os-f

 