Chicago Board of Health Meeting Minutes
April 17th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Juan M. Calderon
Victor M. Gonzalez
Board Members Absent
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
For the Department
Fikirte Wagaw, First Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Minutes
April 17th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:02 am by Board President, Dr. Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: The Board approved the March 2019 minutes.
Commissioner’s Update: First Deputy Commissioner, Fikirte Wagaw, provided the following updates:
Commissioner Transition: As you may already be aware, Dr. Morita has accepted the position of
Executive Vice President at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. She will be overseeing programming,
policy, research, and communications activities to build a Culture of Health across America. We don't
know yet who her successor will be, but Dr. Morita is dedicated to making sure it is someone who
understands and values the work of public health. Dr. Morita will be here until mid-June to pave the way
for a smooth transition.
New Team Member: Alfonso Martel has joined CDPH as the new manager of legislative affairs. Alfonso
will serve as your liaison to the department. Prior to joining CDPH, he worked at City Council for the last
eight years. He is excited to work with the board in this new capacity.
th

Pandemic Flu Exercise: On April 10 , CDPH led a federal exercise to analyze Chicago’s approach to
mobilize and coordinate a response with hospitals and the government in the event of a novel flu
outbreak. More than 200 people participated in this one-day, tabletop event, which CDPH planned in
collaboration with the Illinois Department of Public Health, Office of Emergency Management and
Communications, Chicago Public Schools and others. This event shines a positive spotlight on Chicago,
which is a testament to the strength of our department.
Accreditation Site Visit: CDPH is advancing the quality and performance of our department by pursuing
national reaccreditation through the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB). The last step in our
application process was a virtual site visit that PHAB conducted in early April to ask questions about our
submission. We expect to receive PHAB’s determination later in mid to late June. Originally accredited in
2013, CDPH is the largest local health department to achieve accreditation to date.
Tele-Psychiatry Services: CDPH plans to launch a tele-psychiatry program later this spring. Through a
partnership with Cook County Health (CCH), CDPH will provide tele-psychiatry services onsite from our
community mental health centers. This will allow patients the ability to interact with their psychiatrists
from the same location they currently see their therapists and other providers.
HIV/STI Bureau: CDPH’s HIV/STI Bureau is transforming its Capacity and Building Assistance (CBA) Unit to
address the changing needs and goals of the HIV/STI delegate agencies we support. The CBA Unit will
focus on supporting organizations so they are well positioned to meet program requirements. The CBA
Unit has also been conducting assessments to understand what agencies identify as their priorities for
growth. The CBA Unit will also take part in organizational development training, allowing staff members
to gain the skills and knowledge they need to support and promote sustainability of our partners. In
addition, CBA Unit staff will be working internally at CDPH to support our own workforce and
organizational development efforts.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Minutes
April 17th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200

Measles Outbreak: Dr. Allison Arwady, chief medical officer for CDPH, appeared on WTTW Channel 11’s
Chicago Tonight public affairs program to speak about the reasons why the number of cases of measles
varies from year to year. Dr. Arwady also appeared on a televised interview on ABC 7 Chicago, and joined
the Bill and Wendy show on WGN Radio, to discuss the nationwide measles outbreak as part of CDPH’s
public outreach efforts.

Comments by the Board: Dr. Lopez gave a brief overview of the history, duties and role of the Board of Health.
Presentation: “Food Inspection and Health Code Enforcement” by Gerrin Butler, Director of Food Protection,
Chicago Department of Public Health
Comments from the Board: Members welcomed new board liaison, Alfonso Martel. A member expressed support
for the addition of tele-psychiatry services in CDPH clinics and highlighted why it is important that we use this
technology to expand access to mental health care. The board discussed the Food Inspection presentation and
inquired about the levels of wasted food at the Taste of Chicago.
Old Business:


Policy Resolutions: Resolutions continue to be in development due to new language and the collection of
additional feedback.

New Business: None
Public Comments: Dr. Lopez facilitated a discussion about board resolutions on climate change and gun violence.
Dr. Lopez indicated that resolutions, once approved by the board, are advisory, and could be shared with the
Health Department, Mayor, and City Council.
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:30 am.

 