MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wagnesday, April 3, 2019 - 9:00 A.M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 43226.

Roll Call 9:03 AM.

Carton L. Pinkins (G)

Edward McCall Thomas (VC)
Sandra Bucciero

Sue C. Carnell

Mona Hammoud

Freman Hendrix

Robert P. Young

Thomas/Came?

Unfinished Business

Young/Thomas

Bucciero/Thomas

Present
Present
- EDS (9:09)
- Present
EDS (9:53)
- EDS (9:28)
- Present

Approved. The minutes from 1the February 20,
2019 meeting. Motion Carried.

Update from Avery Williams, Ethics Board
attorney, on the status of the communication
from County Executive Warren C. Evans, re:
County Treasurer Eric Sabres.

The board discussed the matter with Mr.
Williams and Michael Sosnowski, Audit
Division Manager, Office of Legislative Auditor
General. Mr. Sabree?s attorney, Philip J.
Thomas, asked to address the board, but was
denied.

Approved. To set the hearing date in the
Evans-Sabres matter. Motion Carried.

Approved. To set Wednesday, May 1, 2019
as the next meeting and 9:00 am. Wednesday,
May 15, 2019 as the meeting for the Evans-
Sabree hearing. Motion Carried.

Thomas/Hendrix

ThomaslBucciero

Buccieroffhomas

Young/Hammoud

New Business

HendrixfCarnell

Approved. For Mr. Williams request additional
information in preparation for the Evans-
Sabres hearing. Motion Carried.

Received and Filed. Communication from
Kaitlyn Farthing, re: a foreclosed property.

The board discussed the matter with Mr.
Williams. Motion Carried.

Dismissed without prejudice.
Communication from LaJuan Smith, re: Erika
Tusar. Motion Carried.

The board discussed the matter with Mr.

Williams and Anthony Guerriero of the
Prosecutor's Office. Motion Carried.

Dismissed without - prejudice.
Communication from Michael Bryant, re:
County snOWplowing. Motion Carried.

The board discussed the matter with Mr.
Williams.

Request for an advisory opinion from Chief
Robert Dunlap, Sheriff?s Office. Motion Carried.

Approved. Motion to concur with Mr. Williams?
written recommendation that the vendor-paid
trip in question involving Chief Dunlap and
Sheriff Benny Napoleon complies with the
Ethics Ordinance. Motion Carried.

The board discussed the matter with Mr.
Williams and Chief Dunlap.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

Public Comments

un- are. 



Written public comments were submitted by Sally Schemanski, Jerry Pa?endorf.
Bonnie Halloran and Adrienne Bennett. Kaitlyn Farthing?s email, 0.2., previously
accepted as public comments.

Spoken public comments were offered by Charemon Brooks, David Mitchell,
Bonnie Halloran, Jerry Pa?endorf, Joshua Van Berkum, Joel Batterman, Beverly
Kindle-Walker and Dawn DeRose.

The board discussed with Mr. Williams its authority in the Evans-Sabree matter
and the ability for it to address concerns about the Treasurer?s Office foreclosure
and auction process raised during public comments.

Thomas/Bucciero Adjournment: 11:15 A.M. 

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

H:/Brown/TPmin Mar2119Ldoc



morgue @outt'tg Efithico 231mm

Carron L. Pinkins Chair The Guardian Building
Edward McCall Thomas - Vice-Chair 500 Griswold, Suite 861
Sandra Bucciero Detroit, MI 48226
Sue C. Cornell Phone: 31 3224?6993

Mona Hammond Fax: 313-224?7484
Freman Hendrix - wcethios@wayneoo1mty.oom
Robert P. Young

 

NOTICE OF MEETING

OFTHE:

-: .WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD . 1 .r -

- - Wednesday; April 3, 2019 9200 azm. -. 
.-. =HearingRoom-704, Guardian Building, SOO?Grl'swold. Detroit, MI 48226 a

The Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled a meeting of the Board on Wednesday. Ami] 3,

2019 at 9:00 am. in Hearing Room T04, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 to consider

the following: -..
A. Roll Call

B. Approval of the minutes of the February 20, 2019 meeting

C. Unfinished Business

1 . Update from Avery Williams, Ethics Board attorney, on the statue of the communication from
County Executive Warren G. Evans, re: County Treasurer Eric Sabres

2. Communication from Kaitlyn Farthing, re: a foreclosed property

3. Communication from LaJuan Smith, re: Erika Tusar

4. Communication from Michael Bryant, re: County snowplowing

D. New Business

1. Request for an advisory opinion from Chief Robert Dunlap, Sheriff's Office

Note 1: This meeting is called in accordance wIlh provisions of the "Open Meetings Act". Act No. 267. Public Ante oi 1973. 

Note 2: In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting. may pennil a person melting such
requeetto address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be tonne:- than the time allotted by the Chairperson. outlast in the approval Oi
the Com 1! 

Note 3: In ?coughs: with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson of a Committee. When requested in advance of any given meeting. may permit a person making SUCH

raqueslto address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by [he Chalmerecn, subject to the approval of
the Committee".

 

newt-moon --.-- 

Tm":



Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Board

Public Comments

Written public comments have been submitted by Sally Sohemaneki, Jerry Paffendorf and Bonnie
Halloran

Adjou mment

 

