 COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
April 23, 2016

B. Approval of the minutes of the December 8, 2014 meeting

MINUTES
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
Monday, December 8, 2014 -- 2:00 p.m.
Commission Hearing Room 704. 500 Griswold. Detroit. MI 48226
Roll Call: 2:15 pm. 

The roll of the Board was called by the Clerk of the?Board, Darcel Brown:

William J. Giovan (C) - Present
William O?Neil (VC) - Excused
Sidney Bogan - Present
Anthony S. Guerriero - Present
Daniel Martin - Excused
William C. Schaefer - Present
Stella Szczesny - EXcused

4 present, a quorum
Approval of the minutes from the November 17, 2014 meeting.

Board Member Bogan, supported by-Board Member Guerriero, moved to
approve the minutes. .

The Board voted as follows:

Yea Giovan, Schaefer, Began, Guerriero -- 4
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- Martin, Szczesny, O?Neil -- 3

Motion Carried.

The Chairman provided the Clerk with sealed minutes that were recorded at the
November 17, 2014 Ethics Board meeting.

 WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
December 8 2014-? PAGE 2

C.

New Business

Ethics complaint alleging violation of sections 40- 3 and 40. 4(d) of the ethics
ordinance. Complainant. Grace Johnson RespOndents: Deborah Wendt.

Please note that a motion for closed session may be granted on the respondent's
request for a closed session in accordance with the open meetings act.

Chairman William Giovan requested testimony from the Complainant and
Respondents.

Board Member Guerriero, supported by Board Member Bogan, moved to
approve entering into Closed Session. Motion Carried.

The Board voted as follows:

Yea -- Giovan, Sohaefer, Bogan, Guerriero 4
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- Martin, Szczesny, Schaefer -- 3

The Board entered Closed Session at 2:18 pm.

Board Member Guerriero, supported by Board Member Bo?gan, moved to
approve ending Closed Session. Motion Carried.

Yea -- Giovan, Schaefer, Bogan, Guerriero -- 4
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- Martin, Szczesny, O'Neil -- 3

The Board came out of Closed Session at 3:47 

Chairman Giovan stated that the gentlemen was hired before the Ethics Ordinance
was in effect; however, the hiring was influenced and the process was done by Ms.
Wendt who violated the ordinance by doing so. He also stated that the Ethics Board
found that Ms. Wendt had violated Section 4(0) of the Ethics Ordinance, which is the
wrong section of the ordinance. The correct section of the ordinance is 
which states: public servant shall not influence the decision to fill a position in
Wayne County government with a person that is a relative or domestic partner of the
county public servant".

Board Member Guerriero, supported by Board Member Bogan, moved to find
the respondent in violation Motion Carried.

MINUTES - WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD I
December 8, 2014 PAGE 3 

Yea -- Giovan, Schaefer, Bogan, Guerriero --4
Nay None
Abstain None
Not Voting -- None
Excused Martin, Szczesny, O'Neil -- 3

D. Such other matters as may properly be submitted before the Committee.

Chairman Giovan notified members that he sent them the pending amendments to
the Ethics Ordinance. 

E. Public Comments

Debroah Wendt stated that she believes that Ethics Ordinance needs to be made
more accessible.

F. Adjournment
As no other business was presented, Board Member Guerriero, supported by
Board Member Bogan moved to adjourn, the time being 3:57 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant
Attachments: Notice



