

MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, December 19, 201-8 9:00 AM.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roit Cail 9:09 AM.

Carron L. Pinkins (0)
Edward McCall Thomas (VC)
Sandra 

Sue C. Carneii

Mona Hammoud

Freman Hendrix

Robert P. Young

Hendrix/Thomas

Unfinished Business

New Business

Hendrix/Thomas

ThomasH-iammoud

- Present
Present
Exoused
- Excused
Present
- Present
Excused

Approved. The minutes from the November
14, 2018 meeting, Motion Carried.

Mr. Pinkins asked Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics
Board Attorney, if the Ethics Board?s suggested
Changes to the Ethics Ordinance have been
submitted to the Commission for its
consideration. Mr. said they will be
submitted in early 2019.

Approved As Amended. The 2018 Ethics
Board year?end report. Motion Carried.

Dismissed. Communication from Dylan
Abbas. Motion Carried.

The Board dismissed without prejudice due to
a lack ofjurisdiction.

Mr. Hendrix voted No.

 

 

3.

E.

ThomasiHendrix

HendrixiThomas

HammoudIThomas

ThomaSIHendrix

wl'homasIHammoud

Hammoud??homas

Dismissed. Communication from Janice Cole
and Gina Watts. Motion Carried.

The Board dismissed without prejudice due to
a lack ofjurisdiction.

Communication from Bernard Hardrick.

Approved. instruction for Mr. Williams to give
Chief Robert Dunlap, Sheriff?s Office a copy of
the Ethics Ordinance to give Mr. Hardrick.

Mr. Hardick is an inmate in the Wayne County
Jail Division 2.

Approved. Instruction for Mr. Williams to mail
a letter to Mr. Hardrick explaining the process
of ?ling a complaint, including the requirement
to have it notarized. Motion Carried.

Discussion among board members with Mr.
Williams, Chief Dunlap and Ms. Crawford.

Dismissed. Communication from Bernard
Hardrick. Motion Carried.

The Board dismissed without prejudice
because it was not properly filed.

Approved. Reconsideration of item D.i.
Motion Carried.

Approved. To accept the 2018 Ethics Board
year-end report, as amended, reflecting the
actions of the Board for items D. 2, 3 and 4.
Motion Carried.

Mr. Williams stated he will submit the report to
Commission staff for distribution once it?s
amended.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

 

 

Commission staff informed the Board that a Commission committee schedule for
2019 has not been finalized. and scheduling of Ethics Board meetings is
dependent upon staff availability. When the schedule is finalized, staff will notify
Ethics Board members and Mr. Williams.

Board members decided to not meet on January 23, 2019 because Mr. Williams
has to attend a court hearing that day. The board will meet on a to-be-determined
Wednesday in February, once the Commission committee schedule is finalized.
Commission staff will send an email to Ethics Board members to determine
aya?ab??y.

Mr. Pinkins thanked the Board. and Commission staff for their service. His stated
that his term ends on December 31, 2018. He is eligible to be reappointed to a
fouruyear term by Wayne County Clerk Cathy Garrett.

F. Public Comments

Hammond/Thomas Adjournment: 10:18 AM.

Respectfully submitted,
Daroel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

l-lthrownITPminFDec'l 921 8/.doc

 

 

magma Glountg (Ethics Vi?oarh

Canon L. Pinkins - Chair
Edward McCali Thomas - Vice-Chair

Sandra Buaciero

The Guardian Buiiding
500 Suite 861
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: 313?224?0993
Fax: 313-224-7484

Sue C. Camel]

Mona Hammoud

 

Freman Hendrix
Robert P. Young

wcethics@waynecounty.com

NOTICE OF MEETING

OF THE

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, December 19, 2018 9:00 am.
Hearing Room 7'04, Guardian Buildinc 500 Griswold, Detroit, [tilt 48226

The Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled a meeting of the Board on Wednesday, December

19, 2018 at 9:00 am. in Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, Ml 48226 to
consider the following:

A.

B.

F.
G.

Note 1.
Hole 

Note 3?

Roll Call

Approval of the minutes of the November 14, 2018 meeting
Unfinished Business

New Business

The 2018 Ethics Board year?end report

Con'imunication from Dylan Abbas

Communication from Janice Cote and Gina Watts

Communication from Bernard I-Iardrick

Such other matters as may be property submitted before the Board

Public Comments

Adjournment

This meeting is called in accordance with provisions of the ?Open Meetings Act", Act No. 267, Public Acts of 1 976. 

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson ot a Committee, when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making such
request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shalt not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the approval of the
Committee"

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "i he Chairperson ol a Committee, when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making such

request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda, Such address shalt not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the approvat of the
Committee".

 

 

