MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, May 1, 2019 9:00 AM.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, Ml, 48226.

A. Roll Call 9:04 AM.

Carron L. Pinkins (C)
Edward McCall Thomas (VC)
Sandra Bucciero

Sue C. Carnell

Mona Hammoud

Freman Hendrix

Robert P. Young

B. Thomasl?r?oung

C. Unfinished Business

1. HendrixlThomas

D. New Business

1 . ThomasiBucciero

- Present
Present
- EDS (9:14)
- Excused
- Excused
Present

Present.?

Approved. The minutes from the April 3, 2019
meeting. Motion Carried.

Update from Avery Williams, Ethics Board
attorney, on the status of the communication
from County Executive Warren C. Evans, re:
County Treasurer Eric Sabres.

The matter was discussed by Mr. Williams;
board members; Mark Abbo, Commission
Chief Fiscal Adviser/Budget Director; and
Felicia Johnson, Commission Counsel.

Approved. Written clarification from the
Commission of the Ethics Board?s investigatory
responsibilities and funding for those
responsibilities, with the formal request
submitted to Commission Chair Alisha R. Bell.
Motion Carried.

Passed For The Day. Communication from
Fred Archie, re: a Sheriff's Office employee.
Motion Carried.

 

.. . 

Mr. Williams stated that he has attempted to
contact Mr. Archie.

2. ThomasIBucciero Passed For The Day. Communication from
Ray Joseph, re: a Friend of the Court
employee. Motion Carried.

Mr. Williams said that he has attempted to
contact Mr. Joseph.

E. Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

The board members stated that the next meeting will be scheduled for May 15,
2019 at 9 am. 

Commission staff provided an update ronjthe Williams Acosta, PLLC contract
modification. It is being reviewed by Commission staff and will be referred to the
Committee on Government Operations for consideration.-

Mr. Thomas: asked for an update on the suggested changes to the Ethics
Ordinance based on Ethics Board meetings last year. Commission staff said it is
waiting on a formal document from Mr. Williams, who said he likely would be
submitting the document at the next meeting after the May 15 meeting (date is to
be determined).

F. Public Comments

Written public comments were provided from Jerry Paffendorf and RoShaun
Harris.

Roshaun Harris provided public and written comments.

Thomas/Young Adjournment: 10:08 AM.

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

H:lBrowanPmin May119f.doc

 

