MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, September 20I 2017 - 9:00 A.M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

A. Roll Call

Carron L. Pinkins (0)

Edward McCall Thomas (VC)

Sandra Bucciero
Sue C. Carneil .

Mona Hammoud
Freman Hendrix
Robert P. Young

B. Thomas/Young

Thomas/Hammoud

Thomas/Hammoud

0. Unfinished Business

9:10 AM.

- Present
Present
- Present
- Excused
- Present
Present
- Present

Approved as amended. The minutes from the
August 23, 2017 meeting. Motion Carried.

The Chairman requested that the minutes be
corrected due to some board members' names being
listed twice.

Approved. New board member cannot rule on a
complaint if they were appointed after the complaint
was filed against the elected official who appointed
the new member. Motion Carried.

Ms. Bucciero abstained.

Approved. The previous motion be tabled that a new
board member cannot rule on a complaint if they were
appointed after the complaint was filed against the
elected official who appointed the new member.
Motion Carried.

The previous motion is tabled at the recommendation
of the Ethics Board Attorney, Avery Williams.

Ms. Bucciero abstained.

1. The complaint by Beverly Kindle-Walker against Treasurer Eric Sabres. citing
Sections 40-4(i) and 40-4(g) of the Ethics Ordinance

The Board heard testimony from Ms. Kindle-Walker and Mr. Sabree.
Hendrix/Thomas Approved. To vote on item 0.1. Motion Carried.
Ms. Bucciero abstained.

Hendrix/Hammoud Approved. Dismissal of the complaint. Motion
Carried.

The Board believed there was insufficient evidence
and the complaint did not meet the burden of proof.

Ms. Bucciero abstained.
New Business
The Committee moved to item D.2.
Summary from Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics Board Attorney, of a request from
Kristina L. Robinson. Wayne County Sheriff?s Office General Counsel, for a letter
in support of her attendance at the Educational Seminar in lsrael for Midwest
African American Leaders sponsored by the American Israel Education
Founda?on

Ms. Robinson spoke about her request.
Hendrix/Thomas Approved. To draft a letter in support of her

attendance at the Educational Seminar in Israel for
Midwest African American Leaders. Motion Carried.

Thomas/Hammoud Approved. To request Ethics Board Attorney Avery
Williams to draft the letter in support of Ms.
Robinson?s request. Motion Carried.

The Ethics Board returned to item D.1.

Summary from Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics Board Attorney, of other complaints
that have been submitted to the Ethics Board.

Mr. Williams provided an update on the status of compiaints filed.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

Mr. Pinkins announced that the board will meet at 9 am. on the third Wednesday
of every month. He also requested that Commission staff place advertisements in
newspapers that give a brief synopsis of the board and an announcement of the
meeting dates and times. 

Public Comments

ThomasIHammoud Adjournment: 11:33 AM.

Respectfully submitted.
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant



