COMMITTEE MEMBERS October 22, 2012
William J. Giovon (0)
William O?Neil (V0)

Daniel L. Martin NOTICE OF MEETING
Anthony S. Guerriero

William C. Schaefer OF THE

Stella Szczesny

Sidney Began. WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Monday, October 22, 2012 4:00 pm.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226

Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled the meeting of the Board on Monday, October 22I

2012 at 3: 00 p. m. in Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 to
consider the following:

A.

c.0090

inmate

Note 1:
Note 2:

Note 3:

Roll Call.
Approval of the Minutes of August 20, 2012 meeting.
Unfinished Business

New Business

Proposed amendments to Ethics Ordinance.
Rules of Procedure.
Communication Strategy.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee.
Public Comments.

Adjournment

This meeting ls called in accordance with provisions of the "Open Meetings Act", Act No. 287. Pubtic Acts of 19?6.:

in accordance with the provisions of Rule 3. 'The Chairperson of a Committee when requested in advance of any given meeting. may permit a person making
such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda Such address shall not be longer than the lime allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the
approval ot the Committee"

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3. 'The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting. may permit a person making
such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shalt not be longer than the time elicited by the Chairperson, subject to the
approval of the Committee".

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
October 22, 2012

B. Approval of minutes from the August 20, 2012 meeting.

MINUTES
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Monday, August 20, 2012 4:00 P. M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian BUilding, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roll Call 4:00 PM.
Daniel Martin - Excused
William 0? Neil Present
William J. Giovon - Present 
Anthony S. Guerriero Present
William C. Schaefer Present
Stella Szczesny - Present
Sidney Bogan - Present

Due to the Wayne County Clerk not yet being present, the members were not
sworn into their positions on the Board. Wayne County Commission Chairman
Woronchak thanked the members of the Ethics Board for their willingness to
serve. The Chairman then moved to Item on the agenda.

Overview of the Wayne County Ethics Ordinance by the Wayne County
Commission Counsel?s Office.

Pamela Lane, Commission Counsel, gave an overview of the Board and its
du?es.

Mr. William J. Giovon stated that he has been appointed by the County
Executive. He disclosed that before he was asked to serve on the Board, he had
been retained by the County to represent a County employee in Federal District
Court. He made known that his representation had been terminated before he
was asked to serve on the Board.

Ms. Stella Szczesny stated that she was appointed to the Board by Raymond
Wojtowicz, Wayne County Treasurer. She disclosed that she and her husband
currently have a land contract with the Wayne County Treasure's son. She made
known that her husband will be handling the reminder of the land contract and
she will not be involved. She stated she would resign if the Board believes her
position is a conflict of interest. 

At this time Cathy Garrett, Wayne County Clerk, swore the members into their
positions.

Mr. Guerriero stated that, prior to being appointed to the Ethics Board, he was
previously on the Wayne County Assignment Counsel list.

Mr. Giovon stated that he is appointed as a Special Master by the presiding
judge of the criminal division to review files. His service has been partially
completed.

The Committee moved to the election of officers.

Election of officers:

a. Chairperson
Guerriero/Szczesny Approved. Nomination for Mr. Giovan to
serve as Chair of the Wayne County Ethics
Board. Motion Carried.
- b. Vice?Chairperson
Guerriero/Schaefer Approved. Nomination for William Neil to

serve as Vice-Chair of the Wayne County
Ethics Board. Motion Carried.

Mr. Giovon stated that he is honored to serve as Chair of the Committee.
The Committee then moved to Item E.

Presentation by a representative of the Wayne County Personnel/Human
Resources Office on its efforts to comply with the Wayne County Ethics
Ordinance.

Tish King, Director of Personnel/Human Resources, spoke to Section 9 of the
Ethics Ordinance. She stated that the ordinance has been sent electronically
along with acknowledgment forms to all employees. Those employees who do
not have e-mail will receive a hard copy of the documents. She also stated that
the disclosure will be in compliance by March 15, 2013.

Ken Wilson, Director of Labor Relations, stated that the ordinance was reviewed
and that as of now the union representatives have no problem with the
ordinance.

Mr. O?Neil congratulated the Wayne County Commission Special Committee on
Ethics on a successful process. He requested additional information from
Commission Counsel regarding Section 7.1, Definition of a Quorum. He also
stated concerns about staff for the Committee. Mr. O. Neil believed staggered
terms should be required for the Board members.

Mr. Giovon, Chair of the Committee, stated that he believed the ordinance should
state that a member can be removed by a two thirds vote of the Commission. He
stated that Section 10.D needs clarification regarding the removal of elected
officials.

Pamela Lane, Commission Counsel stated the Ethics Disclosure Form will be
submitted to the committee at the next meeting.

Mr. Giovon stated that he does not feel the Committee should not have trials on
claims that the committee feels are illegitimate. He believes a procedure is
needed to dispose of complaints that on their face do not allege a prima fascia
state a violation of the Ethics Ordinance.

Zenna Elhasen, Director of Wayne County Corporation Counsel introduced
herself to the Committee.

Approval of Agenda
Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee.

The Committee recommended meeting every two months or as called by the
Chair. The next meeting was scheduled for October 22, 2012 at 3 pm.

Public Comments.
O'Neil/Bogan Adjournment: 5:08 PM.
Respectfully submitted,

Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

Hlerown/TPmin2012/August20.doc

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
October 22, 2012

D. 1. - Proposed amendments to Ethics Ordinance

Suggested Amendments to Ethics Ordinance

Section 1 

Organization. The PRESIDING OFFICER or THE seven?member ethics Board shall
be governed?by the chairperson, who shall be elected by majority vote of ethics board

members.

Comment: This amendment more accurately defines the authority of the
chairperson.

Proposed Second Paragraph to Section 12.1 It! - Support

The County of Wayne shall defend the members of the ethics board and indemnify
them. against any claims or causes of action that may be asserted against them arising
from their actions or duties under this ordinance.

Comment: Although it may be implicit already, the members of the ethics board
should not be exposed to personal liability or the cost of defense on account of
actions taken pursuant to their obligations under the ordinance. This proposed
added paragraph makes explicit that the County will provided a defense and
indemni?cation against claims that may arise pursuant to their duties.

Section .1

Removal. Any member of the board may be removed by the appropriate?elected
ot??eial AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF OF THE MEMBERS OF THE WAYNE
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS for good cause, including but not limited to
incompetence, substantial neglect of duty, gross misconduct, malfeasance in of?ce,
con?ict of interest, or violation of any law, after written notice, stating the grounds for
removal.

Comment: The existing provision allows for removal of a member of the board by
the sole action of one person, i. e. the official who appointed that member. This
circumstance can be seen as affecting the independence of the member, and most
assuredly so in any instance where the conduct of the appointing of?cial may be
concerned. The proposed amendment allows for removal of a member, but under
a more stringent standard, and by a more neutral authority, the Wayne County
Board of Commissioners.

Section 75: Hearings

- - The Ethics Board
shall convene a heating on the complaint AS SOON AS IS PRACTICABLE

 



ethics board shall render

its decision, by. majority vote of the members appointed.

Comment: It seems futile to be able to accurately predict a limitation on the time 
within which a board can convene a hearing. For example, Section naturally
enough, provides that the board may request additional information. It can't be
predicted how long it will take to receive the information or to investigate it, not
to mention other factors, such as a delay in filing an answer to the complaint.

Similaily, the timing of the decision cannot rationally be govelned by
the original date of ?ling of the complaint. Not even after the conclusion of the
hearing can there be any accurate prediction of how long it will take a seven?
member board to reach a decision. Surely it must be assumed that the Board is
obliged to make a decision as soon as is possible under the circumstances.

Section 10 

In addition to any other penalty, whether criminal or civil, a public servant who
violates this ordinance may be subject to disciplinary action, including censure,
reprimand, removal, dismissal or discharge BY THE- EMPLOYER OF THE PUBLIC

SERVANT.

Comment: This amendment clari?es that the cited discipline refers to the official
employing the public servant, and not to the Ethics Board.

William]. Giovan

August 23, 2.012.

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
October 22, 2012

D. 3. - Communication Strategy

Ethics Board Plan

Office of Policy. Research and Analvsis (OPRAlfunction as support
The administrative work for Ethics can be easily accomplished in by the
personnel of the Office of Policy Research and Analysis. There are three
categories of work to be done for the Board: Processing Complaints,
Communicating with the Board and facilitating meetings.

Complaint Monitoring -
The optimal situation is to have the email account connected to the hotline.
Therefore the all hotline voicemails will go to the Ethicsemail account simplifying
the process of monitoring. Furthermore, the individual responsible for monitoring
will have the Ethics account available in their regular outlook account making
monitoring easy. Also, I recommend that the OPRA Director (John Pfeiffer) has
access to the account to provide for a backup.

. Emails to the Ethics email account tobe reviewed daily by Amy Aubry

. Voicemails to the Ethics account be reviewed daily by Amy Aubry

. Each inquiry will be given a number and logged,

0 After an inquiry is logged in, the appropriate authority will be notified in

accordance to the Ethics Ordinance.

An-email account has been set up and it is wcethics@co.wavne.mi.us

Communicating with the Chair and the Board

OPRA will communicate with the Ethics Board Chair to arrange meeting
schedules, meeting logistics, and confirming agendas. OPRA will notify the
Board of complaints in the manner established by the Board. Direct
communication to the Board Chair will be performed by John Pfeiffer and Amy
Aubry as his backup.

Meetings

OPRA will facilitate the operations of each meeting such being responsible for
committee agendas, the meeting, posting agendas, preparing committee
minutes and insuring the meeting room is ready for a meeting. This will be done
by Darcel Brown and Makisha Morse will be his back up.

Communication issues
There are a couple communication issues to resolve at the inception of the Ethics
Board. The first is to develop a complaint form. This would be use as vehicle to
process issues that come be for the Board. While the Ethics Ordinance does not
require the following for a complaint form, it does require a complaint to have the
following items:

0 be in writing;

. contain the name, address and phone number of the complainant;

 contain the name and position, if known, of the public servant alleged to
have violated this Ordinance 

. contain a statement of the alleged facts and circumstances which shall
specify one (1) or more of the standards of prohibited conduct outlined in
the Ethics Ordinance;

0 contain a statement that the complainant has read the complaint and know
its contents, and believes the alleged violations to be true;

. contain the signature of the complainant before a notary.

Since the ordinance requires a complaint have several requirements, complaints
have consistency if there is an agreed upon form that is easily accessible.

Other items that the form should contain:
. Details on how to file; the ordinance requires complaints to be filed with
the designee of the Ethics Board
0 Recognition that to the extent required by law, the identity of the
complainant shall be kept confidential 
Stating the Ethic?s Ordinance guidelines to frivolous complaints.

Another consideration is developing a communication strategy create a presence
and make county employees aware of the new ordinance. This could be
accomplished through several vehicles such as the use of the:
. County Wide Email to inform county employees of the new requirements
a A website that contains the following
0 details the compliant process
0 copy of the complaint form
0 the Board?s contact information such as address, email and hotline
number
0 copy of the ordinance

The Ordinance requires that the Ethics Board submit a summary of the year's
actions to each appointing official by December 15'? of each year. I propose that
the OPRA and the Commission?s Public information Department work together in
creating this document.

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
October 22, 2012

D. 2. Rules of Procedure

WAYNE COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS COMPLAINT PROCESS


Suggested language for discussion by Wayne County Board of Ethics members
concerning the complaint process:

Complaint Process.

Filing of complaint. Any person may file a written, sworn and signed
complaint with the Board of Ethics alleging a violation by any officer, employee or
contractor of the County of this division. The complaint shall only be on the form
provided by the County. If the alleged violation concerns the Board of Ethics
attorney, then special counsel shall perform the steps required of the Board of
Ethics attorney under this division. Each complaint shall be based on personal
knowledge and shall fully state the facts of the violation.

Notification of complainant and alleged violation. Within ten business
days after receiving the complaint, the Board of Ethics attorney shall notify the
complainant that the complaint has been received and indicate the review
process. Within the same time period, the Board of Ethics attorney shall forward
a copy of the complaint and a description of the review process to the alleged
violator.

Request for information. The Board of Ethics may request information
from the alleged violator concerning the complaint.

initial review. The Board of Ethics attorney shall, within 14 days, review
the complaint and all supporting documents submitted by the complainant and by
the alleged violator and shall determine:

(1) Whether or not the complaint is In the proper form;

(2) Whether the complaint falls under the scope and authority of the
Board.

Decision by review committee. It the complaint meets the requirements of
the subsections of this section, the Board of Ethics attorney, the chairperson
and the vice~chairperson of the Board of Ethics shall constitute a review
committee and shall review the complaint and all information submitted to
determine whether the complaint alleges a prima facie violation of the Ethics
Ordinance. In the absence of either the chairperson or vice~chairperson, the
individual with the most seniority on the Board of Ethics shall sit on the review
committee. Upon review, the review committee shall, by a majority vote, do one
of the following:

(1) Dismiss the complaint;

(2) Approve the complaint without a recommendation;

1

WAYNE COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS COMPLAINT PROCESS
9r?k'k?k'ir?'1r 

(3) Approve the complaint with a recommendation; or
(4) Refer the complaint to another agency for investigation.

Both the complainant and the alleged violator shall be notified in writing by the
Board of Ethics attorney of the decision at this step.

Decision by Board of Ethics. Upon receipt and review of an approved
complaint, the full Board of Ethics shall decide upon a course of action.

(9) Notice of hearing. If the Board of Ethics orders a hearing, the date for the
hearing shall not be more than 30 days from the date it received the
recommendation of the Board of Ethics attorney. Notice of the hearing shall be
given to the officer or employee involved. the immediate superviSor, the County
elected officials, the County Commissioners and the Board of Ethics attorney by
personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested. Notice shall be given
not less than 20 days prior to the hearing.

Recommendation by Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall issue an
advisory report and recommendation within 30 days of the conclusion of the
heanng.

.6) Conduct of hearing. The hearing shall be conducted informally.
Witn?esses shall be, sworn by the presiding officer of the Board of Ethics or other
official authorized to administer oaths. The alleged violator shall have the right to
counsel and the right to present evidence and witnesses and to cross examine
witnesses. The state rules of evidence and civil procedure shall not apply.
Insofar as practical, hearings shall follow the administrative procedures act of
1969, Public Act No. 306 of 1969 (MCL 24.201 et. Seq). A written or electronic
record shall be kept of the proceedings. The Board of Ethics shall have
subpoena power to obtain information and compel witnesses to appear for
hearings when necessary.

Advisory opinions.

Requests for advisory opinions shall be filed with the Board of Ethics
attorney and state the request in detail. The request shall be in writing and
signed. The Board of Ethics attorney shall examine and request and, if in
proper form and within the purview of the Board, forward the request to the
Board of Ethics for an opinion. The Board of Ethics attorney shall advise the
Board of Ethics in writing of any request not forwarded and the reason for the
denial.

WAYNE COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS COMPLAINT PROCESS


The Board of Ethics may make such informal investigation of'the facts and
issues raised by the request as the Board deems advisable.- The Board shall
render its opinion with 30 days of receiving the request. The Board of Ethics
may reject a request for advisory opinion if the Board, in good faith. believes
the request to be in bad faith, for Improper purposes, frivolous, of only minor
consequence, or has been effectively ruled on or settled by past actions of
the Board of Ethics, a County ordinance, or other law.

if the County officer, employee or contractor is the subject of an advisory
opinion and has received a copy of the opinion, his actions shall be prima
facie legal and ethical if he conforms to the opinion. This section shall not

apply to a criminal act.

Advisory opinions may not be used for any purpose not specifically
authorized by this ordinance. Opinions of the Board shall not'be binding but

shall be advisory only.

Please review the above for discussion at the next Board of Ethics meeting on October
22, 2012. It is respectfully suggested that the Board consider creating a complaint
process [by internal regulation, bylaws, or adopted rules of procedure.

