MINUTES
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Meeting of Monday, August 4, 2014 3:00 P. M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, Ml, 48226.

Roll Call 3:05 PM.
William J. Giovan (C) - Present
William O?Neil (VC) - Present
Sidney Began - Present
Anthony S. Guerriero Present
Daniel Martin - Present
William C. Schaefer - Excused
Stella Szczesny - Present

Minutes of June 23,2014 Meeting.

Chairman Giovan indicated that the proposed minutes of the June 23, 2014
meeting be amended to include the following paragraph:

?Chairman Giovan stated that the effect of the Sheriff's request would be to say
that the state statute and the ordinance prohibiting political use of a vehicle are
unconstitutional as applied to the office of Sheriff; that the legislature has the
constitutional right to prescribe the duties of the Sheriff; that there is no conflict
between the statute and ordinance and the duties of a Sheriff, and that neither
this statute nor ordinance should be construed as inapplicable to the Wayne
County Sheriff.?

Vice-Chair O'Neil moved to so amend the proposed minutes, seconded by
member Szczesny. The motion carried unanimously.

New Business -Tvvo complaints against Wayne County Prosecutor 
Worthy for failure to file the conflict of interest personal disclosure form.

Donn Fresard, Wayne County Prosecutor's Office, stated that elected officials
are excluded from filing the form and he therefore believes no violation has been
committed.

Chair Giovan stated that, although he believes that there is no excuse for an
elected official not to file the personal disclosure form, the failure to file the form
that is mandated by section 5 of the ordinance is not listed as one of the
standards of conduct prescribed in section 4 for which the board. is authorized to
impose a penalty, and that, accordingly, the board is without authority to sanction
the Prosecutor in this instance.

Mr. Guerriero stated that he views the compliant the same way that the Board
Chair does.

Mr. Bogan stated that he agrees with the Chair.
Susan Bisio, Corporation Counsel, agreed with the Chair?s opinion.

Mr. Guerriero offered to recuse himself on this issue on the basis that he is the
appointee on the board of the Wayne County Prosecutor. Mr. Guerriero was
dissuaded from recusing himself.

Later in the meeting member, Szczesny moved to dismiss the complaints against
the prosecutor, seconded by Mr. O'Neil. The motion carried

Complaint against Jeremy Cady for failure to file the personal disclosure
form.

Ms. Bisio informed the Board there was a data entry error in the search for Mr.
Cady?s form and that Mr. Cady did file the 2013 2014 personal disclosure form.

The department name used in the search field was not a name recognized by the
website.

Mr. Guerrero moved to dismiss the complaint against Mr. Cady, seconded by
member Szczesny. The motion carried unanimously.

Choice of an attorney to render an opinion on the matter raised by Sheriff
Napoleon.

Chairman Giovan stated that, of the three law firms recommended approved by
Corporation counsel to render a legal opinion, member William Schaefer had
recommended to the chair the choice of attorney John Jacobs, a
recommendation with which Chairman Giovan agreed.

Member Guerrero moved to higher Mr. Jacobs for that purpose, seconded by
member Szczesny. The motion carried unanimously.

Proposed amendments to Rules of Procedure.

Ms. Bisio provided an overview of proposed amendments to the board?s rules of
procedure.

Mr. Guerriero moved and Mr. Bogan seconded that the amendments be ad0pted.
The motion passed unanimously.

The amended rules are attached to these minutes.
Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Board.

Public Comments.

Felicia Johnson, Commission Counsel, stated that the Ethics Ordinance revisions
are being drafted.

I. Mr. O'Neil moved and Mr. Bogan seconded that Board adjourn. The motion
passed unanimously.

Adjournment: 4:17 PM.

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant



WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD COMPLAINT PROCESS

Complaints.

(8)



(C)







Filing of complaint. Any person may file a written, sworn and signed complaint with
the Ethics Board alleging a violation of the ethics ordinance by any official, employee
or contractor of the County. The complaint shall be submitted on the form provided
by the County and shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of the
complainant; (ii) the name and position, if known, of the public servant alleged to
have violated the Wayne County Ethics Ordinance (the respondent); a statement
of specific facts alleging a violation of the standards of conduct prohibited in the
ethics ordinance; (iv) a statement that the complainant has read the complaint,
knows its contents, and believes the alleged violations to be true; and, the
signature of the complainant before a notary public. The Ethics Board secretary
shall forward all complaints to all Ethics Board members and the Ethics
Board attorney.

Criminal allegations. In the event that the allegations in the complaint appear to be
criminal in nature, the complaint and any accompanying documentation shall be
immediately forwarded to the Wayne County Prosecutor by the Ethics Board Chair
and no further action shall be taken by the Ethics Board. The complainant and the
members of the Ethics Board shall be notified that the referral has been made.

Noti?cation of complainant and respondent (the alleged violator). In all other cases
where the complaint appears to be non-criminal in nature, the Ethics Board attorney
shall notify the complainant that the complaint has been received and shall
serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent. Both the complainant and
respondent shall be provided with a copy of the Wayne County Ethics Board
Complaint Process at this time.

Request for information. The Ethics Board may request additional information from
either the complainant or the respondent regarding any issues raised in the
complaint at any time throughout the complaint process.

Initial review. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt, the Ethics Board
attorney shall review the complaint and all supporting documents submitted by the
complainant and will advise the Ethics Board:

(1) Whether or not the complaint is in the proper form; and,

(2) Whether the complaint falls under the scope and authority of the Ethics
Board.

Answer. The respondent, or his/her designee, shall file an answer with the Ethics
Board within twenty-one (21) calendar days after service of the complaint. The
answer must: be in writing; (ii) include a response to each allegation raised in the
complaint; and contain the signature of the respondent (and designee, if being
filed by a person other than the respondent) before a notary.



(J)





Additional written information. The complainant and respondent may submit
additional written information for the Ethics Board to consider within twenty-eight (28)
calendar days after the complaint has been served. Responses to additional written
information may be made within seven (7) calendar days. All additional information
and responses thereto must be sent to the Ethics Board and to the opposing party at
the same time.

Witness lists. If the complainant or respondent wish to have a witness address the
Ethics Board at the hearing, the names and addresses of all witnesses must be
provided to the Ethics Board and the opposing party within twenty?eight (28) days
after the complaint has been served.

Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing date, place, and time shall be given by the
Ethics Board to the complainant, respondent, appropriate elected official, and any
witness named on a witness list provided by the complainant or the respondent no
fewer than ten (10) calendar days before the date of the hearing. The Ethics Board
may independently request the presence of any witness or the production of any
documentary material that it believes would be helpful in reaching a decision
concerning the merits of any complaint.

Conduct of hearing. The hearing shall be conducted informally, and the court rules
of evidence and civil procedure shall not apply. Witnesses shall be sworn by the
presiding officer of the Ethics Board or other official authorized to administer oaths.
The complainant and the respondent have a right to be represented by legal counsel
obtained at personal expense. Both the complainant and the respondent shall have
an opportunity to address the Ethics Board at the hearing. The Ethics Board may
permit any witness to speak at the hearing, and it may request any documentary
material that it determines will be helpful to reaching a decision concerning the
merits of any complaint. In its discretion, the Ethics Board may continue a hearing at
a later date if it determines that further testimony or documentary materials are
necessary to reach a decision concerning the merits of any complaint.

Burden of proof. The complainant has the burden of proving the allegations by a
preponderance of the evidence.

Rights of respondent. The respondent has the right to: be present; (ii) be
represented by counsel; testify; (iv) examine witnesses; cross-examine
adverse witnesses; and (vi) introduce other evidence as may be material and
relevant to the issues.

Decision. The Ethics Board shall render its decision by majority vote of the quorum
present at the hearing. Complaints may be dismissed if the Ethics Board determines
that: it lacks jurisdiction over the complainant or the subject matter; (ii) the
complaint is barred because it was resolved before the complaint was filed; the
face of the complaint fails to state a claim of unethical conduct; or, (iv) there is
insufficient evidence to believe that the ethics ordinance was violated. If the Ethics
Board determines that the ethics ordinance was violated, then it shall direct the
chairperson of the Ethics Board to issue a municipal civil infraction violation notice
instructing the respondent to appear in the Wayne County Municipal Violations
Ordinance Bureau to pay the fine and costs prescribed by this chapter. If an
admission of responsibility is not made and the civil fine and costs are not paid, then



the chairperson shall file a municipal civil infraction citation with the appropriate
district court and shall serve a copy on the respondent.

The ethics board shall forward a copy of all findings of fact to the appropriate elected
official.

Advisory opinions.




(C)





Any public servant may make a written request for advisory opinion if the public
servant Is in doubt whether his or her conduct complies with the requirements of the
ethics ordinance.

Complaints may be made anonymously.

The Ethics Board secretary shall forward all requests for an advisory
opinion to all Ethics Board members and the Ethics Board attorney.

Within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt, the Ethics Board attorney shall
review the request and all supporting documents and will advise the Ethics Board:

(1) Whether or not the request is in the proper form; and,
(2) Whether the complaint falls under the scope and authority of the Board.

The Ethics Board may make such informal investigation of the facts and issues
raised by the request as the Board deems advisable.

The Board shall render its opinion at an open meeting. Copies of advisory opinions
shall be made part of the Ethics Board minutes.

