MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, October 18. 2017 9:00 AM.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roll Call 9:01 AM.

Carron L. Pinkins (C) Present
Edward McCall Thomas (VC) - Excused
Sandra Bucciero Present
Sue C. Carnell - Present
Mona Hammoud Present
Freman Hendrix - Excused
Robert P. Young Present

Young/Bucciero

Unfinished Business
New Business

Carneli/Bucciero

Approved. The minutes from the September 20,
2017 meeting. Motion Carried.

Received and Filed. Summary from Mr. Avery
Williams, Ethics Board Attorney. of formal complaints
that have been submitted to the Ethics Board. Motion
Carried.

Mr. Williams provided an overview of the complaints
that were submitted.

Approved. Requesting Mr. Williams to present a
formal resolution of his actions for D1 at the October
?18, 2017 meeting. Motion Carried.

Update from Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics Board
Attorney. of the letter approved by the Ethics Board
on September 20, 2017, in support of Kristina L.
Robinson, Wayne County Sheriff's Office General
Counsel, and her attendance at the Educational
Seminar in Israel for Midwest African American
Leaders sponsored by the American lsrael Education
Founda?on.

 

Carneli/Bucciero

CarnellfBucciero

Attorney Williams stated that the letter approved by
the Ethics Board was submitted to Ms. Robinson.

Update from Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics Board
Attorney, of a complaint received by the Ethics Board
from Mr. Bill Meyers.

Approved. Requesting Mr. Williams to contact Mr.
Meyers again to formally file his complaint. Motion
Carried.

Mr. Williams stated that a complaint was received
from Mr. Williams stated that the formal paperwork
was sent to Mr. Meyers to complete and return, but
there has been no response from him.

Approved. instructing Mr. Williams to contact Mr.
Meyers again to formally file his complaint. Motion
Carried.

E. Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

F. Public Comments

YoungiHammoud

H:lBrowanPminOct1EMT/doc

Adjoumment:.9:46 AM.

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown

Legislative Research Assistant

 

