MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Monday, October 22,2012 3:00 P. M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roll Call

William J. Giovan (G)
William Neil (VC)
Sidney Bogan
Anthony S. Guerriero
Daniel Martin
William C. Schaefer
Stella Szczesny

Schaefer/Guerriero

Unfinished Business

New Business

Schaefer/Bogan

3:10 PM.

- Present
- Present
- Present
- Present
- Present
Present
Excused

Approved. The minutes from the August 20, 2012
meeting. Motion Carried.

Proposed amendments to the Ethics Ordinance.

Proposed amendments were made to the Ethics
Ordinance by board members.

William Giovan stated that he will make suggested
amendments and submit the document by email to
the board members and the Chairman of the Wayne
County Commission.

Approved. Adoption of the Rules of Procedure.
Motion Carried.

Mr. Guerriero submitted his Rules of Procedure for
discussion purposes.

The Committee suggested amendments which are
included in an updated draft of the Rules of
procedure.

Communication Strategy.

John Pfeiffer, Research Policy Director of the
Wayne County Commission, provided details and
recommendations for communication strategies from
the Chair of the Wayne County Commission. Mr
Pfeiffer recommended that the Wayne County Ethhics
Board be a stand alone on the Wayne County
website. He also notified the committee that they do
have an active email in which complaints can be
submitted to.

Bill 0? Neil made a recommendation that all
complaints be submitted to all members.

The Committee agreed to have a compliant form
prepared before submitting any information to the
media regarding exposure of the Ethics Board.

E. Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee.

The Committee recommended meeting every two months or as called by the

Chair.
F. Public Comments.

G. Guerriero/Schaefer



Adjournment: 4:17 PM.

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

 COMMITTEE-MEMBERS October 17. 2012
- William J. GiOvon (C)
William 

Daniella- Martin NOTICE OF MEETING
Anthony-S. Guerriero - 
William C. Schaefer OF THE
Stella Szczesny . .
sane Began WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Monday, October 22, 2012? 3:00 p. m.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226

. Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled the meeting of the Board on Monday, October 22,
-. 2012 at 3:00 pm. in Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 to
Considerthe following:-

 

a, I- Roll Call. 

- Approval ofthe minutes of the August 20, 2012 meeting.

B.
{Unfinished Business
. New Business I

1

Proposed amendments to Ethics Ordinance

2. . I Rules of Procedure

3 3- I CommuniCation Strategy
E. ,f -. Such other! matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee.
F. - I Bublic Comments.

. .3 Adjournment.

Note 1: This meeting is called in accordance with provisions of the "Open Meetings Act", Act No. 267, Public Acts of 1976. 
Note 2: In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making
- such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson. subject to the
- - approval of the Committee".
Note 3: In accordance with the- provisions of Rule 3 "The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting. may permit a person making
- such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the
apprOval of the Committee"

