WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

November 17, 2014

B. Minutes from the October 20, 2014 meeting

MINUTES
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
Monday, October 20, 2014 3:00 pm.
Commission Hearing Room 704, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226
Roll Call: 3:10 pm.

The roll of the Committee was called by the Clerk of the Board, Darcel Brown:

William J. Giovan (C) - Present
William O?Neil (VC) - Excused
'Sidney Bogan - Present
Anthony S. Guerriero - Present
Daniel Martin - Excused
William C. Schaefer - Present
Stella Szczesny - Excused

4 present, a quorum
Approval of the minutes from the August 4, 2014 meeting.

Board Member Bogan, supported by Board Member Guerriero, moved to
approve the minutes.

The Board Members voted as follows:

Yea Giovan, Began, Guerriero, Schaefer?- 4
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused O?Neil, Martin, Szczesny -- 3

Motion Carried.
New Business

Complaint against Treasurer Wojtowicz for failure to file the personal disclosure
form.

Chairman William Giovan informed the Board that there was a data entry error in the
Personal Disclosure Form filed by Treasurer Wojtowicz and Treasurer Wojtowicz did
file the 2013-2014 Personnel Disclosure Form.

Chairman Giovan also stated that Treasurer Wojtowicz would have attended the
meeting to appear before the Board, but the Chairman notified him that there was no
reason to attend the meeting.

MINUTES WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
OCTOBER 20, 2014 PAGE 2

Board Member Guerriero, supported by Board Member Schaefer, moved to
dismiss item 0.1.

The Board Members voted as follows:

Yea Giovan, Bogan, Guerriero, Sohaefer -- 4
Nay None
Abstain None
Not Voting None
Excused O?Neil, Martin, Szczesny 3

Motion Carried.

2. Complaint against Register of Deeds Youngblood for failure to file the personal
disclosure form.

Chairman Giovan stated that Bernard Youngblood, Register of Deeds had not filed
the Personal Disclosure Form, but upon receiving notice of the compliant, he did so.

Chairman Giovan also stated that failure to file the Personal Disclosure Form is not
listed as one of the items of conduct listed in Section 4 in which the Board is
authorized to issue a sanction against public officials. The requirement to submit the
Personal Disclosure Form is listed in Section 5, but not as one of the standards of
conduct in Section 4, the violation of which the Board is empowered to issue a
sanc?on.

There are proposed amendments to the Ethics Ordinance which include making
failure to file a Personal Disclosure Form a violation of the ordinance. Chairman
Giovan invited Felicia Johnson from Commission Counsel to provide an update on
the amendments.

Ms. Johnson advised the Board that the amendments have been submitted to the
Commission Chair and should be processed and approved by the end of the year.

Board Member Schaefer, supported by Board Member Began, moved to
dismiss item 0.2.

The Board Members voted as follows:

Yea -- Giovan, Bogan, Guerriero, Schaefer -- 4
Nay -- None
Abstain -- None
Not Voting -- None
Excused -- O?Neil, Martin, Szczesny 3

Motion Carried.

MINUTES WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
OCTOBER 20, 2014 PAGE 3

3.

Continued hearing for request of an advisory opinion on the matter raised by Sheriff
Napoleon.

Before discussing the memorandum prepared by John P. Jacobs, Special Counsel
for the Ethics Board, Chairman Giovan invited Attorney Mark Brewer, representation
for Sheriff Napoleon and Willie Mayo, Wayne County Legislative Auditor General to
provide comments. Mr. Brewer stated he is still in disagreement with the view that
Sheriff Napoleon?s action were in violation of the Ethics Ordinance. Mr. Mayo
indicated he supports the opinion presented by Mr. Jacobs and felt that had the
circumstances been different and Sheriff Napoleon was campaigning for re?election
in Wayne County, it would have provided him more latitude and flexibility for use of
the county vehicle.

Mr. Sidney Bogan believes that the Wayne County Sheriff?s vehicle and accessories
should not be viewed as a gift or income, but as an extension of the Sheriff and
cannot be set aside without adversely impacting, changing or destroying the office.
Mr. Bogan also stated that the Wayne County Sheriff should not be compared to any
other elected official due to his position and job duties.

Mr. William C. Schaefer stated that he agrees with what the law states and that it is
outlined in the opinion that was submitted to Board. An exception could be carved
out in the law, but until that happens, the law does not allow for this type of activity.

Mr. Anthony S. Guerriero stated that that, because there is no carve-out in the law,
he believes the Board would be remiss in their duties to ignore two ordinances and a
state law that are directly applicable.

Chairman Giovan stated the laws are very clear and make no exceptions for a
Sheriff. in addition, Chairman Giovan noted that the Board had never been told of
one incident when'a Sheriff had to respond to an emergency while attending a
political event.

Mr. Guerriero presented a resolution to the Board, which reads as follows:

Be it resolved, that, in the opinion of the Wayne County Ethics Board, the
Sheriff of Wayne County is forbidden by law and ordinance from using his
county-supplied vehicle and/or a county-paid employee to attend political
campaign events, whether his own or those of any other candidate for office.

The Ethics Board is also of the opinion that the Sheriff is obliged to reimburse
Wayne County for the value of his use of those resources during his past
campaign for the office of the Mayor of the City of Detroit.

Board Member Guerriero, supported by Board Member Schaefer, moved to
approve the resolution for foregoing item C.3.

MINUTES WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
OCTOBER 20, 2014 - PAGE 4

Mr. Brewer requested to make comments before the Board voted. Mr. Brewer
stated that this will have a state-wide impact and is seeking an opinion from the
Michigan State Attorney General and Sheriff Napoleon will abide by the Attorney
General?s ruling. At this time, Mr. Brewer requested the Board to table the item until
an opinion from the Attorney General is received.

After discussion by Members with Mr. Brewer, Board Member Bogan,
supported by Board Member Schaefer, moved to table foregoing item 0.3.

The Board Members voted as follows:

Yea -- Began and Schaefer -- 2
Nay -- Giovan and Guerriero 2
Abstain None
Not Voting None
Excused O?Neil, Martin, Szczesny 3

Motion Failed.
At this time, the Board returned to the motion to approve item C. 3.
The Board Members voted as follows:
Yea Giovan, Guerriero, Schaefer 3
Nay -- Bogan 1
Abstain -- None

Not Voting None
Excused O?Neil, Martin, Szczesny 3

Motion Carried.
D. Such other matters as may properly be submitted before the Committee.
E. Public Comments

Paula Bridges, Public Information Director and Sue Hall, Chief of Staff of the Wayne
County Sheriff?s Department provided comments.

F. Adjournment

As no other business was presented, Board Member Schaefer, supported by
Board Member Guerriero moved to adjourn, the time being 4:00 pm.

MINUTES WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
OCTOBER 20, 2014 PAGE 5

Respectfully submitted,

Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

Attachments: Notice



 . William] G'io'van, Chair
William O?Neil Vice?Chat?
Hogan .

 

 

pproval of the minutes of the August 4 2014 meeting

New Busmess

   
 

I against Treasurer Wejtowmz for failure to

7 rm

.-

Nails 2;

Note 3:

"Public Comments

Adjournment

'j_j.Thls meetihg is calle'd' In accordance with provisions of the "Open Meetings Act" No. 26?. Public Acts of 1976.: 
'I'n secordance' with the provident? of Rule 3, "The Chairoer'sOn 'ot a? Committee when requested in advance of any given meeting may perm It a person making

such request to address the oh any matter on the Agenda Such address "sh

approval or the Cemmiltee? ..
?in accordance With the p'r6'vislons? of Rule ?The Chairpeason oI a Committee when requeSIed In advance of any given meeting may permit a person making

file the personal disclosure form

against Register of Deeds Youngblood for failure to file the personal disclosure

hearing for request of an advtsory opinion on the matter raised by Sheriff Napoleon .

7 other matters as may be properly submitted before the Board.

at! not be longer than the time attolted by" the Chairperson sutatect to the 

'such request to addre?s- the Committee On any matter on the Agenda Such address shalt not be longer then the time allotted by the Chairperson subject to the

approval or the Committee.

0%



 

?Note 1:
Note 2;

N016 3:

 

  

 

proval ot meeting if 

implatnt against Treasurer Wo?owrcz forfeiture to ?le the personal disclosure form.

mplarnt agalnst RegIster of Deeds Youngblood for fallure to fIle the personal disclosure I

   

ntInued hearing fer request of: an adVIsory opinion oh; the matter raised by Sheriff Napoleon. 

 

. I Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Beard.
.-f-ji-Pub Ic Comments

Adjournment

Thle meetmg is Called' tn acCerdance. with provlSIone (if the -?Q'pen Meetings Act" Act No; 267 Acts. of 1926: . 

accordance with the provisions ef Rule 3 '_The Chairperson of a Committee When requested in advance of any given nteellng may perm it a person making
reqtreet to address the Committee On any matter on the Agenda Stitch ?address shall not he tonger than the time allotted by the Chalrp'erson subject to the
'_approval ?of the committee. .

accordance with the provisions or Rule The Chairperson of a Corninltl'e9. when requested In advance of any given meeting may permit a person making

Such request to address" the Committee on any matter On the Agenda. _Such adctress shall not be longer than the time ettott'ed by the Chairperson subject to the

approval of the Cominittee'.



?9

 
 
  

