MINUTES

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, February 20, 2019 9:00 AM.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roll Call

Carron L. Pinkins (C)
Edward McCall Thomas (VC)

Sandra Bucciero
Sue C. Carnell
Mona Hammoud
Freman Hendrix,
Robert P. Young"

HendrixlCamell

New Business
Election of officer:
a. Chairperson

Hendrix/Young

Hendrix/Came?



9:05 AM.

Present
EDS (9:15)
- Excused
Present
- Excused
- Present
Present

Approved. The minutes from the December.
19, 2018 meeting. Motion Carried.

Election of the Ethics Board Chair

Approved. Nomination for Mr. Pinkins to
serve as Chair of the Wayne County Ethics
Board. Motion Carried.

Approved. To elect the Chair and Vice?Chair
on an annual basis, with the current terms
ending on December 31, 2019. Motion Carried.

Discussion of the Ethics Board?s contract with
Williams Acosta, PLLC.

Felicia Johnson, Commission Counsel, 8:
Joseph Slezak, Legislative Policy Analyst,
provided comments regarding the extension of
the Williams Acosta contract.

Approved. To instruct the Department of
Corporation Counsel to prepare a two?year

 

extension of the Williams Acosta, PLLC
contract. Motion Carried.

Communication from County Executive Warren C. Evans, re: County Treasurer
Eric Sabree

Mr. Thomas stated for disclosure that he worked with Mr. Sabree during his
tenure at Wayne County in the Department of Corporation Counsel. He also
stated that he is an appointee of the Wayne County Executive.

Mr. Hendrix stated for disclosure that he served in administrative position with
Mr. Sabree in the past.

Ethics Board Attorney Avery Williams stated that he believes there is no conflict
of interest regarding the disclosures expressed by board members. He also-4;;

stated he would communicate with Mr. Thomas and address his concerns in

writing.

The Board inquired from MarcellaCora} Wayne County Legislative Auditor
General, regarding the request made 'by?Chair Alisha Bell, Wayne County
Commission, to audit the Wayne County Treasurer?s Office.

The Committee stated that Mr. Sabree has until March 12 to respond to the
complaint made against him.

Mr. Williams stated that if Mr. Sabree does send a response then Mr. Evans can
then respond to provide a supplement to the response.

Approved. To start the clock for Mr. Sabree?s
response on February 19, 2019, when Williams
Acosta, PLLC delivered Mr. Evans? complaint
to Mr. Sabree. Motion Carried.

Communication from Kaitlyn Farthing, re: a foreclosed property

Younnghomas Passed For the Day. Communication from
Kaitlyn Farthing, re: a foreclosed property.
Motion Carried.

Mr. Williams will once again contact Ms.
Farthing about filing a proper complaint.

Communication from Bernard Hardrick, re: LaToya Willis

I Dismissed. Communication from Bernard
Hardrick, re: LaToya Willis. Motion Carried.

 

10.

The board dismissed the item without prejudice
because the complaint does not meet minimum
requirements.

Communication from Bernard Hardrick, re: Sgt. Donald Farris

Dismissed. Communication from Bernard
Hardrick, re: Sgt. Donald Farris. Motion
Carried.

Communication from Bernard Hardrick, re: Sheriff Benny Napoleon

Young/Thomas I Dismissed. Communication from Bernard
Hardrick, re: Sheriff Benny Napoleon. Motion.

Carried. 

The Board dis-missed items?fl'D? 7 together without prejudice?because the
complaints do not meet minimum requirements.

Communication from LaJuan-i Smith, re: Erika Tusar 

Younnghomas? 37- Passed" for the Day. Communication from
LaJuan Smith, re: Erika Tusar. Motion Carried.

The Board desired to give Mr. Williams time to
conduct additional research.

Dr. Carnell voted no.

Communication from Parnell Smith, re: Cpl. Joseph Gawenda

Thomas/Young Dismissed. Communication from Parnell
Smith, re: Cpl. Joseph Gawenda. Motion
Carried.

The board dismissed the item without prejudice
because the complaint does not meet minimum
requirements.

Thomas/Came? Communication from Michael Bryant, re:
County snowplowing.

Passed For The Day. Communication from
Michael Bryant, re: County snOWplowing.
Motion Carried.

Mr. Williams will once again contact Mr. Bryant
about filing a proper compliant.

 

Board members and Mr. Williams discussed
what means County inmates have to address
complaints aside from submitting them to the
Ethics Board. Mr. Williams said he would
communicate with Chief Robert Dunlap of the
Sheriff?s Office.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

Board members asked Mr. Thomas if he would remain as Vice-Chair through
December 31, 2019, which is the end of his current term on the board. He said
that while he will be, unavailable for part of the summer, he would remain in the 
role. I I I 

"Public Comments
Maureen Taylor, Sylvia Ordunoand Marian Kramer provided comments.

Thomas/Young Adjournment: 

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown
Legislative Research Assistant

 

magne (?auntg (?fth/ice 331mm

Canon L. Pinkins - Chair

Edward McCall Thomas Vice-Chair
Sandra Bucciero

Sue C. Cornell

Mona Hammoud

The Guardian Building
500 Griswold. Suite 851
Detroit. MI 48226
Phone: 313-224-0993
Fax: 1313?2243484

weethics@waynecounty.com

 

Freman Hendrix
Robert P. Young

NOTICE OF MEETING
OFTHE

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS-BOARD

Wednesday, February 20, 2019? 9: 00 a. .
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold Detroit MI 48226

The Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled a meeting of the Board on Wednesday February;

20. 2019 at 9: [it] a. m. in Healing Room 704. Guardian Building, 500 Griswold Detroit MI 48226 to

consider the following: . 

A. Roll Call . 

8. Approval of the minutes of the December 20, 2018 meeting

C. Unfinished Business

D. New Business

1. Election of the Ethics Board Chair

2. Discussion of the Ethics Board?s contract with Williams Acosta. PLLC

3. Communication from County Executive Warren G. Evans. re: County Treasurer Eric Sabres

4. Communication from Kaitlyn Farthing, re: a foreclosed property

5. Communication from Bernard Hardrick, re: LaToya Willis

6. Communication from Bernard Hardrick. re: Sgt. Donald Farris

7. Communication from Bernard l-lardrick. re: Sheriff Benny Napoleon

Note 1: This meeting is called in accordance with provisions of the 'Open Meetings Act" Act No. 26?. Public Acts of 19?6.:

Note 2: In accordance with the provisions of Rois 3. ?The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance oi any giyon meeting. may permit a person making such
Egretensitufeaddress the Committee on any ma lter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be longer than the lime allotted by the Chairperson. subject to the approval ol the

Note 

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 'The Chairperson ot a Committee when requested" In advance ofany given meeting. may permit a person making such

request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shalt not be longer than the lime allotted by the Chairperson. subject to the approval of the
Committee".

 

 

Communication from LaJuan Smith, re: Erika Tusar
Communication from Parnell Smith, re: Cpl. Joseph Gawenda
Communication from Michael Bryant, re: County snowplowing
Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Board

Public Comments

Adjournment

 

 

 

