NOTICE OF MEETING
OF THE
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
Thursday, June 1, 2017 – 8:30 a.m.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226
The Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled the meeting of the Board on Monday, June 1,
2017 at 8:30 a.m. in Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 to
consider the following:
A.

Roll Call

B.

Approval of the Minutes of the April 28, 2016 meeting

C.

Unfinished Business

D.

New Business

1.

Introduction of members
Election of officers:
a.
b.

Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson

2.

Ethics complaint alleging violations of multiple sections of the Ethics Ordinance. Complaintant:
Barbara Bassett. Respondent: Wayne County Clerk Cathy M. Garrett.

3.

Ethics complaint alleging violations of multiple sections of the Ethics Ordinance. Complaintant:
Barbara Bassett. Respondent: Zenna Elhasan, director, Wayne County Office of Corporation
Counsel.

Note 1:
Note 2:

This meeting is called in accordance with provisions of the "Open Meetings Act", Act No. 267, Public Acts of 1976. :
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson of a Committee, when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making
such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the
approval of the Committee".

 Notice - Committee on Ethics
June 1, 2017– Page 2

4.

Ethics complaint alleging violations of multiple sections of the Ethics Ordinance. Complaintant:
Barbara Bassett. Respondent: Souriana Hammoud, assistant corporation counsel, Wayne
County Office of Corporation Counsel.

E.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee.

F.

Public Comments.

G.

Adjournment

Note 3:

In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3, "The Chairperson of a Committee, when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making
such request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson, subject to the
approval of the Committee".

 