Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation
12:45 PM
Tuesday, April 23, 2019

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman S. Morrison asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
No public speakers.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, moved that the Workers’
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending
Workers’ Compensation. The motion carried.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, moved Approval of the cases
over $25,000.00. The motion carried.
19-3004
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/19/2019.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to approve
19-3004. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)

 1. SETTLEMENTS AND DECISIONS

CANADA, KENNETH
17 WC 005402

Petitioner felt pain in his left and right hands immediately
following an altercation with a detainee.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen
moved Approval. The motion carried.

HICKEY, MICHAEL
18 WC 3679

Petitioner experienced symptoms of bilateral carpel tunnel
syndrome.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen
moved Approval. The motion carried.

HOLCOMBE, FRED
17 WC 005795

Petitioner was about to apprehend a subject in court who had been
remanded into custody, when he tripped and fell injuring his head,
left elbow and left knee.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen
moved Approval. The motion carried.

NORWOOD Jr., EPHRIEM
17 WC 35902

Petitioner injured his back and left hip when the stool on which he
was sitting broke, causing him to fall against a cabinet and the
floor.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen
moved Approval. The motion carried.
TAYLOR, AARON
17 WC 006712

Petitioner was attempting to retrieve his handcuffs from a detainee
who refused to comply, after Petitioner secured the detainee, he
felt a sharp pain in his right shoulder.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen
moved Approval. The motion carried.

 19-2123
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TO ALIGN WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PAYMENT PROCESS WITH STATE STATUTE
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners requires the Department of Risk Management to administer
workers compensation benefits for Cook County employees pursuant to the Illinois Workers’
Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Risk Management works with County employers and the Office of the
States Attorney to ensure that injured employees receive proper workers’ compensation benefits while
also preserving the Employer’s interests; and
WHEREAS, the Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation authorizes workers’ compensation
settlements and awards as presented by the State’s Attorney’s Office; and
WHEREAS, Resolution 13-R-02 authorizes the Department of Risk Management to resolve Workers’
Compensation cases under $25,000.00; and
WHEREAS, the workers’ compensation benefits are referred to as workers’ compensation claim
payments and include indemnity payments, payments to case management and service providers, and
payments to medical providers for injuries or illnesses sustained in the course and scope of employment
with Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 100-1117 and the Workers’ Compensation Act requires a medical
provider to bill an employer or its designee directly and further requires employers and insurers to pay
interest to providers at the rate of 1% per month for services rendered on and after the effective date of
this amendatory Act if the bill is not paid promptly; and
WHEREAS, workers’ compensation medical providers must receive payments within 30 days or face
penalties in accordance with Illinois Public Act 100-1117; and
BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioner of Cook County that the Department
of Risk Management be granted the authority to resolve and execute all workers’ compensation claim
payments. A report of such approved workers’ compensation claim payments shall be made available to
the Finance Committee of the County Board on a monthly basis by the Director of Risk Management.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to recommend
for approval 19-2123. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)

 ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Johnson, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

 