Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Contract Compliance Committee
Tuesday, May 21, 2019

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0278
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/05/2018
19-0229
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Refer to Contract Compliance Committee

Page 1 of 3

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 21, 2019

Report Title: Forest Preserves of Cook County Annual Business Diversity Report FY 2018
Report Period: 1/1/2018 - 12/31/2018
Summary:

In July 2012, state legislation authorized the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest

Preserves”) to establish provisions to address the underuse of minority and women-owned businesses
with

respect

to

procurement

contracts.

An

ordinance

establishing

the

program’s

parameters

and

guidelines was passed by the Forest Preserves Board of Commissioners in September 2012. This initiative
is significantly benefitting the residents of Cook County by increasing the pool of qualified minority and
women-owned businesses that have the opportunity to be selected for contracts awarded by the District
each year.
To remedy historic inequity and to facilitate greater inclusion, the Forest Preserves established aspirational
contract goals for the participation of minority and women-owned as set forth under the ordinances that
comprise the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Municipal Code.
The Minority and Women-Owned Businesses program accomplishments in FY 2018 include; awarded
contracts achieved 47% minority and women-owned businesses participation; 55% of contract payments
were made to minority and women-owned businesses either as prime contractors or sub-contractors.
The Forest Preserves participated in 16 outreach and workshop conferences, many in collaboration with
various government entities.

Also, in 2018, the Board approved an amendment to the Minority and

Women Business Enterprise Ordinance to create the Established Business Enterprise Program which
allows for weighted program participation as Minority and Women-Owned Businesses grow and graduate
from the program.
Legislative History :

4/23/19 -

FPD Board of Commissioners

Secretary

Page 2 of 3

-

refer to the Contract Compliance Comm

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Chairman:
Arroyo
Vice-Chairman: Miller
Members:
Anaya, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry, Moore, Sims

Page 3 of 3

May 21, 2019

 