Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee
Wednesday, May 22, 2019

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-3650
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/25/2019
19-3320
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU19-01 & Variance V 19-09

Township: Lyons
County District: 17

Page 1 of 4

 Zoning and Building Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

Property Address: 9000 Elm Avenue, Burr Ridge, Illinois 60527
Property Description:
The Subject Property consists of approximately 43,500 square feet of total land
area and is located on the west side of Elm Avenue, south of Wolf Road, in Section 06.
Owner: Jeff Mendez, 409 W 169th Street, South Holland, Illinois 60473
Agent/Attorney: Nick Ftikas, Law Offices of Samuel V.P. Banks, 221 N. LaSalle St., 38th Floor
Chicago, IL 60601
Current Zoning: R-3 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Special Use for Planned Unit Development, with a companion Variance to allow for the
construction of a single-family residential dwelling located on property designated as “Environmentally
Sensitive Area”, by the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan. The companion
Variance request seeks to reduce the lot width from the minimum required 150 feet to an existing 145 feet
in order to construct a single family residence, if granted under the companion Special Use (SU19-01).
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 4/3/2019
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 5/1/2019
County Board extension granted: N/A
19-1648
Sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board
of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A, Zoning, Article
8, General Provisions, Section 8.7 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

***
8.7.7. ANIMALS. In addition to the regulations below, the keeping of animals is subject to all applicable
provisions of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, including but not limited to those contained

Page 2 of 4

 Zoning and Building Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

within Chapter 10, Animals, and Chapter 38, Health and Human Services. For purposes of this
ordinance, an animal shall be considered an adult when it reaches four (4) months of age.
***
C. Horses. The keeping of horses shall be limited to a minimum lot area of ½ acre; horses shall
be kept in an adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement of such animals. This section
does not apply to "miniature horses," which are subject to regulation as "pets" above.

CD. Fowl. No more than twelve (12) five (5) fowls shall be kept when located on zoning lots of
less than 1 acre; roosters are prohibited; fowls shall be kept in an adequate enclosure
suitable for the confinement of such animals.
DE. Beekeeping. Bee colonies may be kept on residential and commercial zoning lots, provided
they comply with the following regulations:
***
EF. Exemptions. This section shall not apply to farms, veterinary clinics, animal hospitals,
kennels, or animal shelters.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.6 of the Cook County Code shall be
amended as follows:
***
13.6.7. ACTION BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.

***
C. Variances forwarded to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for final decision shall be
approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended
approval of a proposed variance or where there has been a written protest filed against a
proposed variance in accordance with Section 13.13 of this ordinance.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

3/21/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Zoning and Building Committee

Page 3 of 4

 Zoning and Building Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

May 22, 2019

 