Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Contract Compliance Committee
Wednesday, May 22, 2019

1:15 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-3665
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/11/2018
19-2297
Sponsored by:
BILL LOWRY, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON,
DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRANDON JOHNSON, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY
MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH
SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN
ORDINANCE
REPORTING

CREATING

THE

GOOD

Page 1 of 13

FAITH

EFFORT

TRANSPARENCY

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-281 - The Good
Faith Effort Transparency Report - Section 34-283 - Contract Compliance Director Waiver Transparency
Reporting is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-281 - The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.

Any Person who seeks a partial or full waiver request shall submit a Good Faith Effort Transparency
Report upon its partial or full waiver request. The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall include:
1.

A detailed list of any and all PCEs whom the Contractor, Person, or Business engaged, contacted,
and/or reviewed, in the County’s Marketplace, from the County’s list of PCEs and/or other State
and local government agencies which identify qualified PCEs for solicitation of bids, for the
purposes of securing a bid with the County;

2.

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ proposed divided procurement
requirements. This explanation will include, but not limited to;

3.

a.

How the Contractor, Person, or Business proposed to divide the procurement
requirements into small tasks and/or quantities into economically feasible units to promote
PCE participation; and

b.

Whether the proposed procurement requirement divisions are consistent with availability
of PCEs;

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ negotiations in good faith with
PCEs. If the Contractor, Person, or Business fails to contact a PCE, this explanation will include,
but is not limited to;
a.

The timeliness when the Contractor, Person, or Business knew of the bid, when the
Contractor, Person, or Party formulated its bid and utilization plan, and the bid request due
date;

b.

A detailed explanation of timely attempts to contact with PCEs providing type of supplies,
equipment, goods, and/or services required for the Procurement. This explanation will
include, but is not limited to;
i. Dates of contact attempts;
ii. With whom, if anyone, the Contractor, Person, or Business communicated and/or
corresponded (including written, virtual, digital, electronic, and other feasible
methods of communication);

Page 2 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

iii.
The number of unsuccessful attempts to communicate or correspond with
PCEs;
4.

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ negotiations in good faith with
PCEs. If the Contractor, Person, or Business successfully contacts a PCE, this explanation will
include, but is not limited to;
a.

A detailed explanation regarding why the PCE was incapable of inclusion for the
Contractor, Person, or Business’ bid;

b.

A description of the information provided regarding the plans and specifications for the
work selected for subcontracting and why agreements were unreachable;
i. The Contractor, Person, or Business shall not determine and reject PCEs as
unqualified without sound reasons. The Contractor, Person shall not consider
some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs as the sole reason for
the Contractor, Person, or Business’ failure to meet the Goals, as long as such
costs are reasonable, as determined by the CCD and Board.

c.

A detailed explanation regarding a Contractor, Person, or Business’ efforts to assist
interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or related
assistance or services, where appropriate;

d.

A detailed explanation of any and all adjusted insurance requirements imposed by the
Contractor, Person, or Business seeking PCEs, including but not limited to;
i. Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business assisted PCEs in obtaining any
required insurance, where economically feasible, to encourage participation by
PCEs

5.

The Contractor, Person, or Business applying for a waiver shall sign the Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report. If the Contractor, Person, or Business is a business organization, authorized
to conduct business in Illinois, the signee shall be any, employee, agent, and/ or officer authorized
to sign on behalf of the Contractor, Person, or Business.

6.

The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall be due at the time the bid or proposal is due. In
the event a bid or proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report, as approved by the CCD, shall be incorporated into the Contract. Failure to
include a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report upon submission of a request for a partial or full
waiver shall result in no consideration for waiver and render the bid or proposal not Responsive.

7.

Once the CCD approves a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, the Contractor, Person, or

Page 3 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

Business may not change the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report without the prior written
approval of the CCD, in consultation with the CPO and the Using Agency. Upon such written
approval by the CCD, the revised Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall be incorporated
into the Contract as an amendment by the CPO and made available to the Board for review no
later than one week prior to the Bid appearing on the Board agenda for approval. The CCD shall
promulgate policies and procedures with respect to changes to a Good Faith Effort Transparency
Report.
Sec. 34-282 - Additional Good Faith Effort Factors for Consideration.

(a) The Contract Compliance Director may also consider additional factors, if known, including, but not
limited to:
1.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business followed up with PCEs who it originally identified
but were unable to include in the bid, based upon prior communication, but prior to submitting its
bid;

2.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business established delivery schedules which will encourage
participation by PCEs, where the requirements of the Procurement permit;

3.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business used the services and assistance of the CCD's staff,
the Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S.
Department of Commerce;

4.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business timely notified appropriate community and minority
and women's business organizations identified as assist agencies, of the opportunity for
participation in the Procurement;

5.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business maintains or commits to establish and maintain a
mentor-protégé agreement with one or more PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgment of
the CCD, has performance standards and outcomes that are clearly established and effective in
terms of assisting the PCE in acquiring additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the
long-term success of the PCE, consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

(b) In determining whether a Bidder or Respondent Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good Faith
Efforts, the levels of participation by PCEs set forth in Utilization Plans submitted by other
Contractors, Persons, or Businesses for the same Procurement may be considered. For example, if
the apparent successful Bidder or Respondent Contractor, Person, or Business fails to meet the
Contract Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average PCE participation obtained by other
Bidders or Respondents Contractors, Persons, or Businesses, this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Bidder or Respondent Contractors, Persons, or Businesses made Good Faith Efforts.

Page 4 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

(c) Where the County requires professional services, the County must be able to call upon those
professionals whose particular training and experience are most beneficial to the County.
(1) A Utilization Plan shall be required, and if a waiver or partial waiver is requested, "good faith"
efforts shall be demonstrated by the submission of the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report,
by the Contractor, Person, or Business, and CCD’s consideration of additional factors pursuant
to as set forth in Sections 34-271 34-271, 34-281, and 34-282; provided, however, that such
Persons or Businesses shall not be required to attempt to subcontract with PCEs if
subcontractors would not typically be utilized for the type of Procurement. In such cases, the
Contractor, Person, or Business shall document the reasons for not subcontracting in a waiver
request also complete a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report detailing the reasons for not
subcontracting the professional services for the specific bid.
(2)

(3)

(d)

The Contractor, Person, or Business will endeavor to maximize use of PCEs for supplies,
equipment, goods, or services for such Contractor, Person, or Business’ business operations not
specifically for the Procurement.
If such Contractor, Person, or Business is required to have or has an affirmative action plan
and goals, such plan and goals shall be submitted with their Utilization Plan. The CCD shall
compare such plan and goals with the Person's Contractor, Person, or Business’ actual
affirmative action achievements and such achievements may be considered by the County in
future Procurements.

Mentor/protégé agreements. Where a Contractor, Person, or Business enters into or maintains a
mentor/protege agreement with a PCE to improve or develop certain aspects of the business of the
PCE, the CCD shall evaluate the effect of such agreement as a factor in determining good faith
efforts. The mentor/protégé agreement may provide for the Contractor, Person, or Business to assist
the PCE in such areas as technical aspects of the PCE's business, improving financial management,
or providing on-the-job training. To constitute good faith efforts, the mentor/protégé agreement shall
satisfy the following requirements.
(1) The PCE performs a Commercially Useful Function;
(2) The agreement shall be included in the Utilization Plan; and
(3)

The agreement clearly defines the respective responsibilities of the Contractor, Person, or
Business and the PCE and includes specific, measurable goals to be attained by both parties
through the performance of the agreement. In order to be a factor in establishing best efforts, the
mentor/protégé agreement must be for a reasonable period of time.

(e) The CCD may grant a total or partial waiver based upon the following criteria:
(1) There are not sufficient PCEs capable of providing the supplies, equipment, goods, or services

Page 5 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

required for the Procurement;
(2) The Procurement cannot reasonably be divided;
(3) The price required by potential PCEs is more than ten percent above competitive levels; and
(4) Any other factor relating to good faith efforts as set forth in the Person’ s Contractor, Person, or
Business’ Utilization Plan and Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.
(f) Should the CCD grant any partial or full waiver, the CCD shall report, in writing, its justification for
granting the waiver, pursuant to Section 34-283.
Sec. 34-283. - Contract Compliance Director Waiver Transparency Reporting.

The CCD shall report to the Board, in writing, on a monthly basis, and at least one week prior to the
Board meeting where such Contracts seek Board approval with a waiver request, a report which shall
include:
(1) The percentage of the total dollar amount of Procurements for such Contracts seeking approval
by the Board, whereby the Person or Party, seeking Contract approval requested a partial or full
waiver and submitted a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.
(2) The number of PCEs available for participation in Procurements, based on Contracts seeking
approval by the Board and requesting a waiver, including:
a.

PCE designation, and

b.

Industry type and/or NAICS codes of the PCEs, where appropriate.

(3) A summary regarding whether
Transparency Report and why.

the

CCD

approved

or

rejected

the

Good

Faith

Effort

(4) The CCD report shall include Good Faith Transparency Reports for such Contracts seeking
approval, attached to the CCD report as an exhibit.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-265 - Program
Administration is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-265. - Program Administration.

(a) The Office of Contract Compliance, under the direction of the CCD, who shall report to the

Page 6 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

President, shall administer the Program. The duties of the CCD shall include:
(1) Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program, certification process, recertification process,
and no-change affidavits, including time limitations for the submission of documents and
information regarding certification applications and contract participation. The CCD is
authorized to collect certification and recertification processing fees in the amount of $250.00
per Application; the collection of said processing fees shall be transacted by the CCD
through the Bureau of Finance.
(2) Providing information and assistance to PCEs, and Small Businesses relating to the Program,
and serve as a liaison to community, contractor, professional and supplier groups, and
associations and organizations.
(3) Establishing uniform procedures and criteria for certifying, recertifying and decertifying
Persons as PCEs, accepting certifications by other agencies, and maintaining a directory of
Certified PCEs. Such procedures and criteria shall include non-certification or decertification
for the willful submission of false or inaccurate material information, the failure to submit
complete and accurate material information to the CCD regarding certification, or a
Procurement on a timely basis, and shall relate individually and jointly to both PCEs and PCE
owners.
(4) Establishing Contract Specific Goals, in collaboration with the User Agency, based upon the
availability of PCEs to provide the supplies, materials and equipment or services required by
the Contract.
(5) Monitoring Contracts to evaluate compliance with Contract Specific Goals and commitments.
(6) Cooperating with and providing assistance to Using Agencies to facilitate participation by
PCEs in Procurements.
(7) Reviewing, approving or rejecting Utilization Plans and Good Faith Effort Transparency
Reports for achievement of Contract Specific Goals, and evaluating the extent to which
goals were achieved.
(8) Monitoring contracts to ensure compliance with Section 34-388, Prompt Payment of PCEs.
(9) Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.
(10)

Evaluating the effectiveness and utility of the Program.

(11)

Monitoring the Program and the County's progress towards the Program Goals. The

Page 7 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

CCD shall report on a quarterly and annual basis to the President on the Program.
(12)

Reporting to the CCC, at its request, information regarding the administration of the
Program and its progress toward achieving the Program Goals.

(b) Using Agencies shall cooperate with the CCD in the administration of the Program, specifically
including assisting the CCD with setting Contract Specific Goals and assisting in the identification of
available PCEs.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-269 - Utilization
Plan; Commercially Useful Function is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-269. - Utilization Plan; Commercially Useful Function.

(a) Utilization Plan. The CPO shall include in Contract Documents for Contracts covered by this
Division a requirement that a Utilization Plan be submitted which either: (i) commits to PCE
participation equal to or greater than the applicable Contract Specific Goal or Goals, or (ii)
requests a waiver of all or a portion of a Contract Specific Goal by submitting a Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report pursuant to Section 34-281.
(1) The Utilization Plan shall be in such form and contain such information as is required by the CCD,
and may include such components as direct PCE participation, indirect PCE participation, and a
mentoring relationship with one or more PCEs.
(2) The Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid or proposal is due. In the event a bid or
proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Utilization Plan as approved by the CCD shall
be incorporated as a material commitment on the part of the Contractor to each relevant PCE
and the contractor and the County. Failure to include a Utilization Plan shall render the bid or
proposal not Responsive.
(3) The CCD shall review and either approve or reject the Utilization Plan. For purposes of
evaluating a Utilization Plan, only PCEs which perform a Commercially Useful Function relative
to the supplies, equipment, goods, services, or types of work for which the PCE has been
certified shall be considered.
(4) Once a Utilization Plan has been approved, the Contractor may not change the Utilization Plan,
including substituting PCEs named in the Utilization Plan, without the prior written approval of
the CCD, in consultation with the CPO and the Using Agency. Upon such written approval by
the CCD, the revised Utilization Plan shall be incorporated into the Contract as an amendment
by the CPO. The CCD shall promulgate policies and procedures with respect to change to a
Utilization Plan.

Page 8 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-271 - Request
for a Full or Partial Waiver; Good Faith Efforts is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-271. - Request for a Total Full or Partial Waiver; Good Faith Efforts.
(a)

Parties submitting bids or proposals for Procurements may in all instances request a partial or full
waiver of one or more established contract-specific Goal for PCE participation. A Contractor,
Person, or Business requesting a partial or full waiver shall submit, in writing, a report detailing its
efforts to comply with County’s “good faith efforts” as defined in Section 34-281, hereinafter
referred to as the “Good Faith Effort Transparency Report”. In reviewing a Contractor, Person,
or Business’ written request for a partial or total full waiver of a Contract Specific Goal, the CCD
shall determine whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made good faith efforts to meet
the applicable Goals and to what extent the waiver request should be granted. In determining
whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good faith efforts, the CCD will consider
the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, pursuant to Section 34-281 and additional factors,
pursuant to Section 34-282. Upon evaluation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ Good Faith
Effort Transparency Report and additional factors, the CCD will draft and submit a report,
pursuant to Section 34-283. whether the Person has

(1) Reviewed lists of PCEs maintained by the County and other State and local governments and
agencies to identify qualified PCEs for solicitation for Bids;
(2)

Divided Procurement requirements into small tasks or quantities. This shall include, where
appropriate, breaking out Contract work items into economically feasible units, consistent with
the availability of PCEs, to facilitate PCE participation, even when the Contractor would
otherwise prefer to perform these work items with its own forces;

(3) Adjusted any insurance requirements imposed by the Person seeking PCEs, or otherwise assist
PCEs in obtaining any required insurance, where economically feasible, to encourage
participation by PCEs;
(4)

Made timely attempts to contact PCEs providing the type of supplies, equipment, goods or
services required for the Procurement; and provide them with a convenient and timely
opportunity to obtain and review all information concerning the Procurement necessary to enable
such PCE to respond;

(5)

Followed up initial contacts of PCEs to determine if they are interested participating in the
Procurement;

(6) Negotiated in good faith and on a timely basis with PCEs to enable them to participate in the

Page 9 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

May 22, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Procurement. Evidence of such negotiation includes the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of PCEs that were contacted; a description of the information provided regarding the
plans and specifications for the work selected for subcontracting; and why agreements could not
be reached. The Contractor may not reject PCEs as being unqualified without sound reasons.
That there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs is not in itself
sufficient reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Goals, as long as such costs are
reasonable;
(7) Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or
related assistance or services, where appropriate; provided, however, that such efforts shall not
be inconsistent with the requirement that the PCE be responsible for actually obtaining and
paying for such items;
(8)

Established delivery schedules which
requirements of the Procurement permit;

will

encourage

participation

by

PCEs,

where

the

(9)

Used the services and assistance of the CCD's staff, the Small Business Administration, the
Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S. Department of Commerce;

(10)

Timely notified appropriate community and minority and women's business organizations
identified as assist agencies of the opportunity for participation in the Procurement;

(11)

Maintains or commits to establish and maintain a mentor-protégé agreement with one or more
PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgment of the CCD, has performance standards and
outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the PCE in acquiring
additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the long-term success of the PCE,
consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-297 - Contract
Pre-Award Compliance Procedures is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-297. - Contract Pre-Award Compliance Procedures.

(a) For all solicitations, the bidder/proposer Contractor, Person, or Business shall submit a Utilization
Plan detailing all subcontractors from which the Contractor, Person, or Business solicited bids or
quotations, and if Project Specific Goals have been established, its achievement of the Goals or
its Good Faith Efforts to do so. The Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid/proposal is
due. Any Contractor, Person, or Business requesting a partial or full waiver shall submit a Good
Faith Effort Transparency Report with its Utilization Plan when the Utilization Plan is due. In the
event a bid or proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Utilization Plan as approved, and
any Good Faith Effort Transparency Report as approved and applicable, by the CCD shall be

Page 10 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

incorporated as a material commitment on the part of the Contractor, Person, or Business to
each relevant PCE, and the contractor Contractor, Person, or Business, and the County. Failure
to include a Utilization Plan, and Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, where applicable, shall
render the bid or proposal not Responsive.
(b) Any agreement between a contractor Contractor, Person, or Business and a PCE in which the
Contractor requires that the PCE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is
prohibited.
(c) Where the contractor Contractor, Person, or Business cannot achieve the Project Specific
Goal(s), the CCD will determine whether the Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good
Faith Efforts to meet the Goal(s), based upon the submission of a Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report by the bidding Contractor, Person, or Business and consideration of
additional factors by the CCD, pursuant to Sections 34-281 and 34-282. Parties A Contractor,
Person, or Business submitting bids or proposals for Procurements may in all instances request a
partial or full waiver of one or more established Project Specific Goal for PCE participation. In
making this determination, the Director will consider, at a minimum, whether the Contractor has:
the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, pursuant to Section 34-281 and additional factors,
pursuant to Section 34-282.
(1) Solicited through all reasonable and available means (e.g., attendance at pre-bid meetings,
advertising and written notices) the interest of all PCEs certified in the scopes of work of the
contract. The Contractor shall provide interested PCEs with timely, adequate information about
the plans, specifications, and requirements of the contract to allow PCEs to respond to the
solicitation. The Contractor must follow up initial solicitations with interested PCEs.
(2)

Selected portions of the work to be performed by PCEs in order to increase the likelihood that
the Project Specific Goals will be achieved. This includes, where appropriate, breaking out
contract work items into economically feasible units to facilitate PCE participation, even when
the Contractor would otherwise prefer to perform these work items with its own forces. It is the
Contractor's responsibility to make a portion of the work available to PCEs and to select those
portions of the work or material needs consistent with the availability of PCEs to facilitate their
participation.

(3)

Negotiated in good faith with interested PCEs. Evidence of such negotiation includes the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of PCEs that were contacted; a description of the
information provided regarding the plans and specifications for the work selected for
subcontracting; and why agreements could not be reached with PCEs. The Contractor may not
reject PCEs as being unqualified without sound reasons based on a thorough investigation of
their capabilities. That there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs is
not in itself sufficient reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Project Specific Goals, as
long as such costs are reasonable. The ability or desire of a Contractor to perform the work of a

Page 11 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

contract with its own organization does not relieve it of the responsibility to make Good Faith
Efforts on all scopes of work that could be subcontracted.
(4)

Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, or insurance as
required by the County or the prime Contractor, where appropriate.

(5)

Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or
related assistance or services, where appropriate.

(6)

Used the services of the Office of Contract Compliance, available minority/women community
organizations, minority/women contractors' groups, government-sponsored minority/women
business assistance offices and other appropriate organizations to provide assistance in the
recruitment and placement of PCEs.

(7)

Maintains or commits to establish and maintain a mentor-protégé agreement with one or more
PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgement of the CCD, has performance standards
and outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the PCE in
acquiring additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the long-term success of the
PCE consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

(d)

In determining whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good Faith Efforts, the
performance of other Contractors, Persons, or Businesses in meeting the Project Specific Goals may
be considered. For example, when the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business fails to
meet the Project Specific Goals but others meet it, it may be reasonably questioned whether, with
additional reasonable efforts, the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business could have
met the Project Specific Goals. Similarly, if the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business
fails to meet the Project Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average PCE participation
obtained by other Contractors, Persons, or Businesses, this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Contractor, Person, or Business made Good Faith Efforts.

(e)

A signed letter of intent from each listed PCE, describing the work, materials, equipment or services
to be performed or provided by the PCE and the agreed upon dollar value shall be due at the time of
bid proposal or within three days after such submission.

(f)

The CCD shall timely review the Utilization Plan before award, including the scope of work and the
letters of intent from PCEs. The CCD may request clarification in writing of items listed in the
Utilization Plan, provided such clarification shall not include the opportunity to augment listed
participation or Good Faith Efforts augment or modify any Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.

(g)

If the CCD determines that the Utilization Plan demonstrates that the Project Specific Goals have
been achieved or accepts the Good Faith Efforts Transparency Report submitted, made, with the
concurrence of the User Agency, the CCD and User Agency shall recommend award to Purchasing

Page 12 of 13

 Contract Compliance
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

Agent. The CCD must issue a report to the Board pursuant to Section 34-283 upon acceptance of
the Contractor’s Good Faith Effort Transparency Report no later than one week prior to the Board
meeting where the Contract seeks approval by the Board.
(h) If the CCD finds that a rejects the Contractor’s Contractor, Person, or Business’ did not make
sufficient Good Faith Efforts Transparency Report, the CCD shall communicate this finding to the
Purchasing Department and recommend that the bid/proposal be rejected. A Contractor may protest this
determination pursuant to the County's bid protest procedures.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2019.
Legislative History :

3/21/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Contract Compliance Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Miller
Members:
Anaya, Arroyo, Degnen, Deer, Johnson, Lowry and Sims

Page 13 of 13

 