Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Law Enforcement Committee
Tuesday, May 21, 2019

9:50 AM

River Trail Nature Center
3120 Milwaukee Northbrook, IL

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0233
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

TITLE 3 - POLICE REGULATION, CHAPTER 1 - POLICE FORCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that

Title 3 - Police Regulations, Chapter 1 - Police Force of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:

Page 1 of 4

 Law Enforcement Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 21, 2019

3-1-1: - POLICE FORCE ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.

There is hereby established a police force to be known as a Police Force.

The Police Force of the

District shall consist of: of police members who shall constitute the regular Police Force of the District.
A. The President and members of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District,
the officers and heads of various departments and divisions of the District, who shall be known
as "Deputy" Police.
B. Police members who shall constitute the regular Police Force of the District.
3-1-2: - COMMAND; RULES AND REGULATIONS.

The entire force for police duty, either emergency or general, shall be under the command of the General
Superintendent Chief of Police who shall make such rules and regulations for the government and
discipline of the police as he may consider necessary and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of
the rules and regulations established by the District Board of Commissioners for the government and
regulation of the officers and employees of the District and of such ordinances as may be from time to
time passed by the Board of Commissioners.
3-1-3: - OATH OF OFFICE.

All members of the regular Police Force shall, before they enter on the duties of their

respective offices,

take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation before the Clerk of the County Court of Cook
County or the District’s Chief of Police or such Chief of Police’s designee:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office (insert here name of office, etc., etc.,) according to the best of my ability."
The General Superintendent Chief of Police shall cause a permanent record to be kept of said oath of
office. The appointment of any person to any office in the regular Police Force, with the exception of
Emergency Police, shall not be deemed complete until the foregoing
that person has been awarded, within six months of his
attesting to his or her successful completion
Course as prescribed by the
been awarded a

oath of office is subscribed to unless

or her initial full-time employment, a certificate

of the Minimum Standards Basic Law Enforcement Training

Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board (“ILETSB”); or has

certificate attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a training program of similar

content and number of hours and which course has been found acceptable by ILETSB; or by reason of
extensive prior law enforcement or county corrections experience the basic training requirement is

Page 2 of 4

 Law Enforcement Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 21, 2019

determined by ILETSB to be illogical and unreasonable.
State Law reference- S.H.A. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
3-1-4: - POWERS AND DUTIES.

***
B. Arrest Powers: All members of the Police Force, as specified in Section 3-1-1 hereof, shall have
power and are hereby severally authorized to arrest and it shall be the duty of the
regular Police Force to arrest, on view, with or without process, any person
within the territory under the jurisdiction of the District Board of
Forest Preserve District, or law of the State of Illinois,
take all such persons so arrested before the
case no such court is in session, the
District, or safe place
until such

members of the

found in the act of violating,

Commissioners, any ordinance of the

or aiding or abetting in such violation, and shall

nearest court of competent jurisdiction in the District. In

persons so arrested may be detained in any police station within the

provided for such purpose by the Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District,

person so arrested can be brought before such court for trial without unnecessary delay and

exercise police powers over the territory within the District for the preservation of the public peace, and
the observance and enforcement of the ordinances and laws, such as are conferred upon and exercised
by the police of organized cities and villages; but such police
city or village, but outside the territory owned,
the District has easement rights,

force, when acting within the limits of any

leased, or licensed by the District and property over which

shall act in aid of the regular police force of such city or village and

shall then be subject to the direction of its chief of police, city or village marshals, or other head thereof.
C.

Arrests: Every person under arrest shall be treated kindly and humanely by the police officer making

the arrest, and by those police who are in charge of such person.
State Law reference- S.H.A. 70 ILCS 810/15.
3-1-5: - RETURN OF PARAPHERNALIA.

***
3-1-6: - PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS POLICE TRAINING ACT.

The Forest Preserve District hereby elects to participate in the program provided for in the Illinois Police
Training Act.
Before an individual may commence regular employment as a Forest Preserve police officer, he must

Page 3 of 4

 Law Enforcement Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 21, 2019

have been certified by the Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement Officers' Training Board as
having successfully completed an approved training course as provided in the Act. Such basic training
must be completed by the trainee as soon as practical.
(1989 Code)
State law reference - S.H.A. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
3-1-7: - EMERGENCY PRESERVE POLICE.

In case of emergency, the General Superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint
Emergency Police and such Emergency Police shall have the same powers and authority as the regular
members of the Police Force; provided, that such appointments shall in no case continue for more than
forty-eight (48) hours.
(1989 Code)
3-1-86: - RESISTING, IMPERSONATING POLICE.

***
3-1-97: - POLICY ON USE OF FORCE-CHOKE HOLDS PROHIBITED.

***

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption (or give specific

date)
Legislative History :

4/23/19 -

FPD Board of Commissioners

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Silvestri
Members:
Britton, Johnson, Miller, K. Morrison, Tobolski

Page 4 of 4

-

refer to the Law Enforcement Committ

 