Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Environment and Sustainability Committee
Wednesday, May 22, 2019

1:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-3664
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/25/2018
19-3082
Sponsored by:
BRIDGET DEGNEN, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER, ALMA E. ANAYA,
LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON, DENNIS DEER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL
LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY

Page 1 of 4

 Environment and Sustainability
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30, Article VIII,
Section 30-973 - 30-991 is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 30-973. Short Title

This Article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Environmental Commission.
Sec. 30-974. Purpose

There is hereby created an Environmental Commission to serve the following purpose:
(a) Ensure Cook County is a leader in combating global warming.
(b) Create a working group of environmental professionals from Cook County’s public and private
sectors working together to devise and implement initiatives to combat global warming.
(c) Enact sustainable legislation and policy aimed at reducing the carbon footprint within the
geographic borders of Cook County.
(d) Serve as a model for other governments by proactively combatting climate change with
innovative and practical environmental initiatives.
Sec. 30-975. Cook County Environmental Commission Membership

(a) The commission will be composed of nine (9) members including the original sponsor of this bill,
who shall serve as Chair. The Chair shall be responsible for designating a successor when he or she
ceases to serve as a Commissioner on the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Six (6) members shall be appointed by the Chair. These members shall represent the following:
(1) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative appointed by the Mayor’s Office of
the City of Chicago.
(2) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from the north triad of Cook
County.
(3) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from the south triad of Cook
County.
(4) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from a not-for-profit.

Page 2 of 4

 Environment and Sustainability
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 22, 2019

(5) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a corporate stakeholder with experience working on
environmental initiatives.
(6) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from higher education or academia.
(c) The President of the Cook County Board of Commission shall appoint one (1) member of the
Commission.
(d) All appointments shall be confirmed by the Cook County Board.
Sec. 30-976. Term and Vacancies

(a) The Chair shall serve for the duration of his or her term as a Cook County Commissioner. The
Chair can serve for consecutive terms. Board members, excluding the Chair, shall serve for two (2)
years and may be reappointed for consecutive terms.
(b) Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner that original appointments are
made and shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose appointment has become vacant.
Sec. 30-977. Qualifications of Members

(a) All members shall have like-minded goals stated in the Purpose section of this Article.
(b) All members shall have subject matter knowledge, experience and/or education in environmental
sustainability matters
Sec. 30-978. Meetings

(a) This Commission shall hold a meeting once every even numbered month.
(b) Meeting dates shall be set for the entire following year, in December of the preceding year.
(c) Should a member of the Commission miss three consecutive meetings, the Commission may
choose to remove the member, and the Chair shall appoint a new member pursuant to Sec. 30-976 (c).
(d) This Commission shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 to 120/7.5, and by the
Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 to 140/11.5.
Sec. 30-979. Powers, duties, and responsibilities

(a) The Environmental Commission shall serve as a working Commission and in an advisory role to
the Cook County Board on matters relating to environmental sustainability, reduction of greenhouse gases

Page 3 of 4

 Environment and Sustainability
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

and reduction of environmental impacts in Cook County.
responsible for:

May 22, 2019

The Environmental Commission shall be

(1) Considering all environmental impacts on surface water, groundwater, air, waste, land and
making appropriate recommendations to the Cook County Board, local municipalities and the
Chicago City Council at least once annually;
(2) Creating and presenting to Cook County Board an annual report and work plan in furtherance of
the Commission’s environmental goals and responsibilities. The Commission should solicit input
from all stakeholders via its representatives in the creation of its work plan; and
(3)

Participating in regional
environmental stakeholders.

environmental

associations

and

collaborating

with

other

local

Sec. 30-980. Article scheduled to be repealed on May 1, 2023

(a) Repeal of Article. This Article is repealed on May 1, 2023.
Sec. 30-981 - 30-991. Reserved
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History: 4/25/2019 Board of Commissioners refer to the Environment and Sustainability Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Britton, Lowry, Miller, K. Morrison, Silvestri

Page 4 of 4

 