May 21, 2019

Item No. 5

RECOMMENDATION TO EXECUTE A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS CONTRACT FOR PASEO
BORICUA ARTS BUILDING AND PIERCE HOUSE.
Development

Address

Alderman / Ward

Community Area

Paseo Boricua
Arts Building
Pierce House

2709-2715 West Division

Roberto Maldonado
26th Ward
Roberto Maldonado
26th Ward

West Town

Presenters:

3527 West North Avenue

Humboldt Park

Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer

Recommendation
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (Board) of the Chicago Housing Authority
(CHA) authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute 1) an Agreement to enter
into a Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) for Paseo Boricua Arts Building; 2) a Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) contract with a) Paseo Boricua Arts Building and b) Pierce House; and
3) execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
The requested action complies in all material respects with applicable CHA Board policies and all
applicable federal laws. Staff have completed all necessary due diligence to support the
submission of this initiative.
Property Summary
Development

Owner
Developer

Target
Population

PRA
Units

Total
Units

Paseo Boricua
Arts Building

Paseo Boricua Arts, LLC
(Brinshore Development)

Families

6

24

Pierce House

LCN Title Holding Corporation NFP
(La Casa Norte)

Homeless

25

25

1

 Estimated Contract Summary
Development

Funding

Contract
Term

Contract
Type

Initial
Estimated
Contract

Total
Estimated
Contract

Application
Received

Paseo Boricua
Arts Building

Housing Choice
Voucher
Program
Housing Choice
Voucher
Program

30
years

AHAP &
HAP
contract
HAP
contract

$81,324
(Year 1)

$3,299,158
(30 years)

October
2018

$303,180
(Year 1)

$12,299,430
(30 years)

Pierce House

30
years

(updated)

March
2019

Initial contract rents will be determined by market comparables and fair market rents applicable
at the time the HAP contract is executed. All rent determinations will comply with federal
regulations and CHA policy.

Paseo Boricua Arts Building
Paseo Boricua Arts Building is a new construction, 5story, masonry, and elevator building located in a
General area in Chicago’s West Town community. The
development is in close proximity to a wide variety of
neighborhood services and amenities.
• Paseo Boricua will offer 24 total units: 8 studios, 8
one-bedroom, and 8 two-bedroom units. Four (4)
units will be accessible with 2 units meeting federal
Type A 504 requirements; 5 units will be adaptable
and 1 unit sensory adaptable.
• Building amenities will accentuate the art culture of the Paseo Boricua. The first floor will
contain 2,780 square feet of commercial, artist and community space. Informal gallery
spaces will be located on each residential floor.
• The residential units will offer an art-loft style with 9-foot ceilings with in-unit laundry,
exposed ductwork, balconies, with art work and exhibit spaces within each unit. Each unit
will include energy efficient appliances. The building will offer an on-site management office.
• PRA will assist 6 units: 3 one-bedroom and 3 two-bedroom units. The target population will
be families from CHA waitlists.
• Unit amenities include condo quality finishes, Energy Star appliances, and balconies.
Residents will have access to artists spaces on the ground level. Tenants are responsible for
electric and gas expenses, including heat and cooking gas.

2

 Property Owner /Manager
Paseo Boricua Arts LLC is a subsidiary of Brinshore Development. Since 1993, Brinshore has
specialized in the development of workforce and mixed-income housing and has completed 58
affordable housing developments containing more than 4,000 family and senior residential units.
Additionally, Brinshore has also developed more than 275 for-sale homes and 50,000 square feet
of retail space.
Brinshore has partnered with CHA in the creation of 1,574 completed public housing units with
an additional 200 units under construction. These developments include Clybourn 1200 (84
units), Legends South (618 units), Westhaven Park (747 units), Park Douglas (137 units), City
Gardens (70 Units), 45th & Cottage Grove (150 units), Keystone Place (69 units), and Dorchester
Artist (32 units). Furthermore, Brinshore offers PRA units in 5 developments: Boxelder Court
Apartments (6 PRA units), Buffett Place (51 PRA units), Ironwood Court Apartments (14 PRA
units), Park Apartments (30 PRA units), and Winterberry Place Apartments (6 PRA units).
Leasing & Management Company, Inc (L&M) will provide property management services for
Paseo Boricua Arts LLC. L&M has extensive experience managing tax credit and other affordable
housing developments with a portfolio of more than 4,000 units of housing in 42 developments
located in the Chicagoland area. L&M manages an additional 576 condominium units in 4
developments in the Chicagoland area.

PIERCE HOUSE
Pierce House is a newly constructed, 5-story, mixeduse, masonry and elevator building located in
Chicago’s Humboldt Park community in a General
area. The development is located on a strong
commercial artery, surrounded by a thriving
residential and business community. Residents of
Pierce House will have access to restaurants, public
transportation and community services.
• Pierce House offers 25 residential units: 7 studios,
9 one-bedroom, and 9 two-bedroom units. 4 units
are accessible and meet federal Type A 504 requirements; 2 units are adaptable and 2 units
sensory adaptable.
• The ground floor of the property contains a federally-funded, qualified health center
operated by the Howard Brown Health Center. La Casa Norte’s (LCN) social, community and
administrative offices are located on the first and second floor of the building and include a
nutrition center with a food pantry and teaching kitchen, with access to employment
3

 •

readiness, life skills, and social service programs. The building provides on-site management,
laundry and storage facilities, as well as 9 off-street parking spaces.
PRA will assist 25 units: 7 studios, 9 one-bedroom and 9 two-bedroom units. Each unit
include energy efficient appliances, including a refrigerator and range.
Tenants are
responsible for their electric expense. The target population will be homeless young adults
aged 18-24 and homeless families from CHA waitlists and the City of Chicago’s Central Entry
System; 4 of the units will come from the State Referral Network. CHA is a partner in
Chicago’s efforts to end homelessness. CHA’s wait list is cross-referenced with the City’s
Housing Management Information System (HMIS) to identify households that will benefit
from a supportive housing environment. CHA is a partner with the State of Illinois in efforts
to provide housing opportunities for Chicago’s homeless.

Property Owner /Manager
La Casa Norte (LCN) is a 501-C-3, not-for-profit corporation, founded in 2002. LCN assists more
than 1,000 households annually and offers an array of comprehensive services including
supportive housing, counseling, employment readiness and prevention services.
LCN
administrative oversite to 90 scattered site, supportive housing residential units through
contracts funded by the US Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD) and the Chicago
Low-Income Housing Trust Fund. LCN will provide on-site management services for the
residential units at Pierce House.
Respectfully Submitted:

________________________
Derek Messier
Chief Property Officer

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2019-CHAWHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
board letter dated May 21, 2019 entitled “Recommendation to Execute a Housing
Assistance Payments contract for Paseo Boricua Arts Building and Pierce House.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute 1) an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments contract
for Paseo Boricua Arts Building; 2) Housing Assistance Payments contracts for a)
Paseo Boricua Arts Building and b) Pierce House; and 3) all other documents as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

_______________________________
Eugene E. Jones, Jr.
Chief Executive Officer
Chicago Housing Authority

5

 