REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, May 21, 2019
9:30 am

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Finance & Audit Committee Report –Craig Chico, Chairman
Item No. 1
Ratification of the acceptance of ROSS and FSS grant awards from HUD in the
total amount of $1,536,887 – Michael Gurgone, Chief Investment Officer
Item No. 2

Recommendation to approve an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago for Fuel Supply and Fleet Maintenance – Darlena Burnett, Deputy Chief,
Fleet and Facilities Management

Tenant Services Committee Report – Meghan Harte, Chairwoman
Item No. 3
Recommendation to accept a grant award and execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services in the
amount of $1,160,000 for CHA’s 2019 Summer Youth Employment Program –
Mary Howard, Chief of Resident Services
Item No. 4

Recommendation to award contract for Workforce Services. Recommended
Awardee: Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership in a not-to-exceed amount of
$430,000 – Mary Howard, Chief of Resident Services

Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 5
Recommendation to execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payments (AHAP) for Paseo Boricua Arts Building; and a Housing Assistance
Payments (HAP) contract with Paseo Boricua and Pierce House – Derek Messier,
Chief Property Officer

 Item No. 6

Recommendation to renew Housing Assistance Payments Contract for G&A
Spaulding Apartments – Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 7

Recommendation to award contracts for the Task Order Competitive
Contracting (TOCC) General Contractors IDIQ Program to provide Authoritywide professional general construction services for various CHA properties –
Matt Mosher, Chief Construction Officer

Item No. 8

Authorization to enter into a Development Agreement for the Mixed-Income
Development of the former Madden Wells Darrow Site – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 9

Recommendation to approve a Pre-Qualified development team to co-develop
the Wicker Park Site – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 10

Recommendation to select LeClaire Partners, LLC to redevelop the LeClaire
Courts Site – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

IV.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Eugene Jones

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VII.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VIII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of March 19, 2019.

IX.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session
Item No. 11 Recommendation to extend the contract with Pugh, Jones and Johnson, P.C. for
Ethics Officer and EEO Officer Services – Cheryl Colston, Chief Legal Officer
Item No. 12

Recommendation to sell vacant properties in the Woodlawn, Pullman and Near
West Side Community Areas – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 13

Authorization to exchange land within the Altgeld Gardens Development Site
with Chicago Board of Education to prepare for community development
activities – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

2

 XI.

Item No. 14

Authorization to approve Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Service
Employees International Union, Local 73 of Chicago – Marilyn Jefferson, Deputy
Chief HR/Training

Item No. 15

Personnel Actions Reports – Marilyn Jefferson, Deputy Chief HR/Training

Adjournment

3

 