TO:

Examining Board Council Members

FROM:

Justin DeWitt, Chief, General Engineering Section

DATE:

October 11, 2018

SUBJECT:

Meeting Minutes-August 07, 2018

Attendance and Meeting Location
The meeting began at 1:35 p.m. on August 07, 2018 at the Springfield Plumbers &
Steamfitters Training Association, 2880 East Cook Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The following were in attendance:
IDPH Staff
Justin DeWitt, Chief, General Engineering
Brian Cox, Program Manager, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Frank W. Shimkus, Plumbing Consultant, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Darrah Dunlap, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rhonda K. Hawkins-Jackson, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Tina Cordova, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rich Hughes, State Plumbing Inspector
Matt Popov, State Plumbing Inspector
John Prichard, State Plumbing Inspector
Examining Board Members
Timothy Atkisson
James Brinkman
Robert Dennison
Thad Ellet
Doug Pursell
Phil Roknich
Robert Schafer
Guests
Andy Fuchs – Springfield Plumbers & Steamfitters

 Welcome and Introductions
Robert Schafer introduced himself and welcomed everyone. A roll call was performed
and quorum established.
Motions


A motion was made by Robert Dennison to approve the August 07, 2018
meeting agenda and seconded by Phil Roknich.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by James Brinkman to approve the June 12, 2018 meeting
minutes and seconded by Tim Atkisson.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Discussion Items


Robert Schafer opened the floor for public comment; however, there was none.



Exam board members discussed the applicants taking the exam; first time
examinees and pass/fail rate.



Exam board members discussed increasing the number of applicants to accept
per exam administered.



Darrah Dunlap presented the Exam Information Guide to the board members.



Exam board discussed modifying exam score sheet for plastic/cast project;
exam supply list; drawing instruction sheet and copper project.

Meeting Adjourned
Timothy Atkisson motioned to adjourn, seconded by Phil Roknich. Meeting was
adjourned by voice vote at 2:30 p.m.

2

 