ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
OFFICE OF HEALTH CARE REGULATION
DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED FACILITY ADVISORY BOARD MEETING
May 9, 2018 ● 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM
APPROVED MINUTES
I.

CALL TO ORDER AND INTRODUCTIONS
Connie Jensen facilitated the meeting. The meeting was called to order at 10:04 a.m. and introductions
were made.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Deborah Kennedy, Michael (Mike) Bibo, Jeff Stauter, Dr. Geunyeong Pyo,
Lois Sheaffer-Kramer, and Fabricio Balcazar

MEMBERS NOT PRESENT:

Nancy Andrade, Susan Fonfa and Dale Simpson

IDPH REPRESENTATIVES:

Connie Jensen, Sean Dailey, Daniel Levad, Sherry Barr, Pamela Winsel,
Lisa Griffith, Michelle Millard, Debra Bryars, Darlene Harney and
Tena Horton

GUESTS:

Bill Bell and Marie Rucker

A quorum was established.
II. APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES
The drafted meeting minutes for February 7, 2018 were reviewed. A motion was made by Mike Bibo
to approve the minutes as presented, seconded by Lois Sheaffer-Kramer. Voted unanimously.
Minutes were approved.
III. MEMBERSHIP UPDATE
A. Membership Vacancies:
(1) Physician Member
(1) Resident Advisory Council Member
(1) Nancy Andrade resigned the position of Public Member
(1) Susan Fonfa resigned the position of IL Department of Healthcare & Family Services
Connie Jensen asked the Board to assist with filling the vacancies for the Board.
B. Expired Terms – N/A

1

 IV.

OLD BUSINESS

A. Informed Consent (IC) for Psychotropic Medication Form Discussion:
1. Dr. Balcazar had a question regarding the Wisconsin Informed Consent. He wanted to know what
was the outcome or final decision and if the Board is going to utilize the Wisconsin IC for
informing people about their medication. Connie Jensen informed Dr. Balcazar that the IC was
discussed and the Department was going to review. Any recommendations that were made by
the Board, the Department would take under consideration and move forward with the IC. There
was no decision if it would be specifically the Wisconsin IC. Mike Bibo wanted to know if the
Department is going to proceed with the IC issues/forms and inform the Providers Union, or will
it be back to the Board. Connie Jensen asked what was the Board’s opinion with the IC? She stated
that Long-Term Care Advisory Board had moved it out as the Department had taken all of their
considerations. Again, she asked if it needed to be brought back to the DD Advisory Board for
further discussion? Mike Bibo stated that it would depend upon what action the Department
would take. He also stated that the Board has a right to request the fiscal impact of it as there
may be fiscal impact which will depend upon the direction of the Department. Therefore, it may
need to be reviewed again. Darlene Harney informed the Board that the LTC Advisory Board
voted to consider the form that Dr. Maurer presented and had a very lengthy discussion. Darlene
asked if it was something that Mike Bibo is considering. Mike Bibo’s concern is that one has the
right to issue an informed consent form. But, the way the Act is written on both the IDD
Community Care Act, the Nursing Home Care Act, and possibly the MC/DD Act, it states that the
population of the form to indicate the risks is the Department’s responsibility to provide this
information on a website form. To sign just a blank form in which Dr. Maurer presented allows
for a format. But, the Act indicates short of individuals putting the demographics, all side effects
and implications of a drug are to be completed by the Department and be available on the website
for their access.
2. Mike Bibo indicated that it is hard to have a discussion when you do not know what the
Department is proposing. Connie Jensen stated that there should be further discussion
identifying the form, how it is intended to be used, and then have that discussion with both LTC
and DD Advisory Boards. Mike Bibo stated that this is the way he sees it according to the Act.
Darlene Harney also stated that the Department would have to have Legal’s input, as well. She
also stated that George Logan made comments at the LTC Advisory and what he interpreted when
reading the Administrative Rules/Act. Connie Jensen informed the Board that George Logan was
not available today, and therefore, the Board will need to have George Logan available for the
further discussion.
3. Connie Jensen stated that there should be a discussion on Mike Bibo’s statement of “fiscal impact
of the form” and/or the impact of the form and implication for use. Mike Bibo stated that there
are no fiscal impacts on the serious incident action report and that it was just a format that was
being promoted that they used. Depending on this, as part of the IDD Community Care Act, the
MC/DD Act, and the Nursing Home Care Act, the Board has the right to ask on any regulation what
the fiscal impact would be which would be inclusive of the forms being mandated. Connie Jensen
questioned was it meant that “the time it is going to be involved in filling out the forms, physician
time, nurse time, etc”. Mike Bibo indicated “yes”.

2

 4. Connie Jensen asked Dr. Balcazar if the discussion helped clarify as to where the Board is headed
regarding the IC? The IC will be brought back to another Board meeting for further discussion.
Dr. Balcazar stated “No”, it was discussed that it would be presented as a best practice for the
State Act practices so it is very helpful for the State to follow. Dr. Balcazar stressed that is a very
important to follow through.
5. Dr. Balcazar had a comment regarding a Public Member and wanted to know if the Department
is going to reach out to an organization or association (i.e., AARP) to identify a Public Member.
Connie Jensen inquired if the Board is open to suggestions and if anyone has an idea or know of
someone who would like to submit an application. Connie Jensen suggested that Dr. Balcazar
submit the information in writing to Tena Horton, Acting Board Liaison. The Department will
pursue the application. Mike Bibo commented that the AARP would not be appropriate for the
DD Facility Advisory Board as the Board has a different age group they serve. Dr. Balcazar
clarified that he said ARC and not AARP.
V.

New Business

A. Rulemaking – Part 390- Incorporating PA99-180 which created the MC/DD Act and Repurposed the
Under Age 22 Facilities as Medically Complex Facilities:
1. Sean Dailey advised the Board that Subpart A is largely technical changes having to do with
implementing the new MC/DD Act. It’s updating statutory language and repealing a couple of
sections that are obsolete. It basically goes through most of the section of Subpart A and bringing
them up-to-date and complying with the requirements of the new Act. All of the information was
extremely out of date as Part 390 had been under the MC/DD Act and never received the
necessary changes back then. These changes were long overdue.
2. Lois Sheaffer-Kramer had a couple of technical issues on Page 9, Section 390.110. Under A, there
still is the language of “under 22 years of age”. Lois would like to propose to strike that
information as it is the very issue that has been in the way of admitting people who are medically
fragile and over the age of 22. Can the Board just cross out “under 22 years of age” and have it
read “provide nursing care to persons pursuant to the terms and conditions of the MD/CC Act.
Sean Dailey asked “can these facilities only admit persons under 22; (knows they serve people
over 22)”? Mike Bibo stated that when the Act was rewritten they deleted the Acts requirement
that it be under 22 and it was basically in the title. This was due to persons over 22 who have
critical care needs and they did not want them sent to a Nursing Home. This would allow persons
to remain in the facility in which they have grown up or moved in. Sean Dailey agreed to strike
the language.
3. Lois Sheaffer-Kramer also identified a couple of technical or typographical errors. On Page 27,
Under D, change to reflect a semi-colon. Sean Dailey indicated it was a strikethrough and will
reflect a common. Also on Page 34, Section 390.270, Under A, the bottom number should be six
(6) and not seven (7). Sean Dailey will correct.
4. Deborah Kennedy had a comment on Page 11, Section 390.120. In the first sentence, it seems like
something is missing and is not sure why we are not using terms that are disability friendly
versus the first language of “an individual with a disability”. The sentence as it reads appears that
there is something missing. “Application for a license to establish or operate a medically complex
for the developmentally disabled facility shall be made in writing”. Mike Bibo stated that the first
3

 letter of each word in that starting with medically complex for the developmentally disabled
should be capitalized as it is the title referred to in the MC/DD Act. Sean Dailey stated he utilized
the words as it is spelled out in the title of the Act. He stated that the statutory language
“application to operate a facility” was to clarify that it is a MC/DD facility. He can upper case the
wording, but JCAR may put them back to lower case. There is no guarantee. Sean also stated that
he would put the acronym after the title, per a Board member’s suggestion.
5. Unrelated to the document, Dr. Balcazar wanted to know if the Agency has enough
resources/personnel currently to oversee of these policies? As good as the policies may be, if they
are any resources in the State to oversee and assure compliance, then there will be an issue. Lois
Sheaffer-Kramer stated that she can assure that facilities are being monitored. Connie Jensen
clarified that the Department does have a licensing body, surveyors and ongoing survey
processes that routinely survey and enforce the rules and regulations relating to these facilities.
She stated that the Department has onsite surveys on an annual basis with these facilities and as
well as complaint investigations, or as needed. Connie Jensen informed Dr. Balcazar that the
changes were just in the rules (i.e., names and updating). Regarding the survey process, the
Department conducts routine surveys.
6. Connie Jensen asked for a motion to move the Part 390 updates forward as amended. Lois
Sheaffer-Kramer to move forward and seconded by Mike Bibo. Voted unanimously. Amendments
were approved.

B. Rulemaking – Part 390- Amends the Notice of Violation Timeline and Definitions Section:
1.

Sean Dailey stated that in Section 272 in letter (e) the information was out of date and needed
to be updated to the current deadline for the Department to issue notice of violation. The rest
of the Section was cleaned up. Last Winter of 2017, the Department had the Part 390 in JCAR
for the Social Security Amendments and are now removing the Social Security numbers
requirement from the licensure applications. JCAR noticed that the definition of Act in the
Definition Section still said nursing home care. JCAR was displeased about this oversight.
Therefore, an agreement was reached in order to adopt these amendments, and upon
resubmission of amendments for Part 390, the Department would have to update the definition
for Act to the MC/DD Act. Sean stated he reviewed the Definition Section and made other
technical changes specifically the statutory language. These changes were made in order for the
Board to move forward with the administrative rules and meet the agreement with JCAR. There
may be other definitions in this Section that are outdated and need work also. Sean requested
that the Board move forward with the changes for now and the other definitions were changed
particularly the definition for facility were needed to comply with the MC/DD Act. If the Board
feels that they want to review in more detail to update other definitions or to strike other
definitions, this can be done over the Summer and then resubmit the Section in the second round
of amendments.

2.

Dr. Pyo stated that there were several changes made in the Definition Section. She indicated that
the word “psychiatrics” is not really correct. There are several items regarding epilepsy and she
does not think it is a correct definition and should be corrected. Mike Bibo expressed some
changes are needed to be made with JCAR in order to keep commitments made in the past. Mike
also expressed that Sean recognizes that there are changes to be made over the Summer.
However, the Department is just asking to move these amendments forward for now to clean up
everything, per JCAR.
4

 Sean also informed the Board that changes can be made at the Public Comment period. Dr. Pyo
agreed.
3.

Lois Sheaffer-Kramer agreed to discuss the definition in the Summer. These amendments were
reviewed by IHCA and were agreed upon and it is understood that more work is needed. Lois
agreed to move the current amendments through.

4.

Connie Jensen asked the Board for a motion to move the amendments as written forward with
additional discussion on definitions at a later date. Lois Sheaffer-Kramer moved to carry
forward and Mike Bibo seconded. Voted unanimously, motion carried.

C. Anonymous and Non-Anonymous Complaint Surveys:
1. Mike Bibo wanted a brief discussion on one of the roles for the Board. One of the Board’s roles is
to review the complaint survey issues whether anonymous or non-anonymous complaints. The
Act states that the Department prepares a report and sends it to the Legislature by January 15 th,
but actually doesn’t happen until July 1st. The Board had made reviews/recommendations for
changes about how the material is reviewed in the past. He wanted to know how the report is
broke down and noted that the Board has the role to review and make recommendations to
ensure that it is being looked at clearly and specifically to DD. He feels the Department has
reverted back on this process. Connie Jensen asked was there any particular reason Mike Bibo
thinks the Department has reverted back. Mike Bibo indicated there was a discussion regarding
this report approximately two (2) years. He indicated the Board was informed last year that it
would receive the report. However, the Board never received the report. He wanted to ensure
that the Board has been advised, per the Act. Darlene Harney informed him that the report is
placed on the website. Subsequently, Mike Bibo advised the Board that he would like to have this
as an agenda item for the next meeting and Dr. Balcazar concurred. Connie Jensen ensured it
would be added to the next agenda.
2. Lois Sheaffer-Kramer inquired as to the current status on the restraint language. Are there any
updates? Sean Dailey stated there was an informal agreement the Department was going to
adopt the Federal rules, however, there has been a delay because of other pertinent projects.
3. Mike Bibo informed the Board that Darlene Harney is leaving the Department. He wanted to
show his appreciation for her leadership and assistance and has felt as though it has been more
of a partnership. He thanked her and wished her well.
VI.

Next Meeting
Next Board Meeting is August 8, 2018 at 10:00 am
Agenda items to Connie Jensen, connie.jenson@illinois.gov by July 23, 2018.
Connie Jensen asked for a motion to adjourn. The motion to adjourn was made by Lois SheafferKramer, seconded by Jeff Stauter. Voted unanimously. Meeting was adjourn at 10:39 a.m.

5

 