STATE STROKE ADVISORY SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES August 8, 2018
Item

Discussion

Decision/Responsible Party
Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, August 8, 2018
11:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.
Normal Fire Department
Normal, IL

Call to Order
Minutes Approval Vote
IDPH Update
(standing item)

EMS Advisory Council
(standing item)

Called to Order at 11:10 am
Dr. Chris Richards
Roll CallOn the Conference Call: 9 people on the call in line
May 9th, 2018, Minutes reviewed
None opposed-Minutes Approved
 There is a total of 156 designated hospitals in Illinois thus farMichelle Lorton
ASRH=79 PSC=63 CSC=14
 New designations in 2018 ASRH=0, PSC=8, CSC=4
 The Stroke Fee Fund total as of August 8th, 2018 is $125,878.65
 Leslie Stein-Spencer is no longer with IDPH. The position is
posed as IDPH will need an acting Division Chief








Brad noted that Leslie did a lot of movement for EMS
IDPH reports difficulty licensing EMS due to software issues
currently (GL Suites)
The state is moving toward SEMP systems, IDPH inspections
are beginning in Carbondale as the first site survey. The
surveys are going well, Region 6, 7, 8,9,10 are having Trauma
surveys and Region 3, 6 are having site surveys. These areas
are trying to work on Bypass protocols
Paula Attenbery transferred to a new department
Mobile Integrated Healthcare Pilots are right now in the data
phase
Strategic plans-subcommittee presented last few years
worked on EMS 2050 and EMS 3.0. From the education
aspect, the push is toward a National Registry State. Only 3
states are not in the National Registry, and Florida will now
be number 47. Many people are very passionate about this
topic with lots of feedback, still large groups who do not
understand what the National Registry means

Brad Perry

 






Subcommittee Updates:
 Education
Subcommittee
 Membership Review
Subcommittee
 State Registry
Subcommittee
(standing item)
Membership Update
(standing item)

There are groups working on curriculum for paramedic
programs, due by December 2020. Will need accreditation
which is mandated by a National Registry. This is only for
paramedic programs, EMT programs not yet.
One a paramedic is on the National Registry, he/she does not
need to maintain this.
Dr. Richards reports he is making a report for the team,
stroke to hospital information
Movement is to go from a transport service ideal to a care
continuum patient centered service-part of EMS 3.0 and fits
into the integrated healthcare system
Michelle warned to NOT have EMS providers drive to
Springfield to get their license. GLS system is backed up with
issues and they will not get license that day

**ACTION ITEM: Tracy and Dr. Richards to draft this
document (State Registry recommendation) and submit to
Michelle at IDPH

Dr. Chris Richards




Tracy Love/Michelle Lorton/Julie Mirostaw



There is a back log on applications
Dr. Richards noted we need to make membership a priority
at this time, since November is the annual meeting in which
we vote
Current Open Positions:
o Fire Chief from a Region >200,000 population
o EMS System Coordinator (application submitted)
o Private Ambulance Service Representative
o Representative from a Municipal EMS Provider
o Hospital Administrator/Designee from a CSC
(application submitted)
o Hospital Administrator/Designee from an ASRH
(application submitted)
o Physician providing advanced stroke care from a CSC
(application submitted)

 STATE STROKE ADVISORY SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES August 8, 2018
o
o
o
o
o
o

Regional Committee Update
(standing item)

Physician Providing stroke care at a PSC
Physician providing stroke care from ASRH
Registered Nurse from a CSC (application submitted)
Registered Nurse from a PSC (resignation pending)
Region 1 Rep (resignation pending and application
pending)
Region 9 Rep (application submitted)

It is the responsibility of the regional representatives to share
information with the state committee and take information back to
their region. Each region is asked to report updates at each State
meeting.

All Region Representatives

1. Region 1: Region continues to work on transport patterns in
the rural and urban areas of the region. Having extra
meetings (meetings are typically quarterly) to determine
LVO screening tools and bypass patterns. Plan to work on
Bylaws after transport completed

Traci Popp and Tracy Love

2. Region 2: Partnered with INI and Stryker rep to discuss LV
strokes and see simulator. Need more people at the region
meetings and more information on LV strokes and stroke
designations. Going out to Ems providers to explain what
the designations mean and who is designated.

Danelle Geraci

3. Region 3: No rep available
4. Region 4: Allison had her baby early, so she is not available
today. The region is working on education with schools and
stroke coordinators. 2 new medical directors in the Region.
Trying to look at transport and LVO tools, and where to
transport patients. Many go to St. Louis, and 2 new directors
are being more aggressive about how to do this.

Brad Perry

 5. Region 5: Looing at data as a Region. Looking at door in and
door out times, and what will the 24 hour time window look
like to transport patients out of this Region

Danielle Short

6. Region 6: Discussing hemorrhagic stroke topics. Team
meets next week to give guidance on how to manage
hemorrhagic stroke. Trying to get PCC (K-Centra) and TXA
on formulary for trauma and stroke in other hospitals in the
Region and provide education on how to treat hemorrhagic
strokes with reversal. Team trying to work with data to get
more information for trauma, STEMI and stroke. Also
looking at door in and door out information.

Erin Eddy

7. Region 7: Has a meeting yesterday and trying to regroup to
get all of Region involved in the team. Getting discussion out
there about “diversion” and discussed LVO tools, need
committee to recommend one tool and education on the tool.
The team also talked about the extended window. It was a
good meeting with great engagement. The team also needs
to look at the SMO’s. AT Christ hospital-they are using the
VAN tool as a trial and it is showing good results

Dee Behrens

8. Region 8: No rep available
9. Region 9: Met last month. LVO tools in use for several
years, and the tool is “mediocre” at best. The subcommittee
gave input on possible new tool and would like the new LVO
tool that is validated and have a transport time of 30 minutes
or less to bypass to a CSC-there are 3 in the Region. The two
tools being reviewed are VAN and FAST EF-final vote and
education in November with roll out December 1st. Dr.
Jordan asks what a good time frame for bypass is. There are
questions if 30 minutes is proper time-and the real question
is how far is too far?
There is 6 sigma lean team in Region 11 looking at where
delays in transfer from hospital to hospital are.
Difficulty noted in teaching the scales and transport routes,
how to make the tool useable and how to education stroke.

Dr. Matt Jordan

 STATE STROKE ADVISORY SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES August 8, 2018
One concern is scene time-do not want them at the scene too
long.
OSF Peoria noted they look at symptoms vs a scale. Dr.
Jordan fears we as nurses and MD’s are jaded because we
know neuro exams. He also noted to remember that on 10%
of LV strokes at CSC’s receive intervention. False positives
can fill up CSC’s and then other facilities cannot get true LV
strokes transferred out because the CSC is full.
Questions the group discussed included:
 How well is the LVO screen completed (quality)
 What are resources available
 What is the transport times inter-facility
Team discussed that if a PSC becomes a TSC per Joint
Commission, they will remain a PSC as the state is not
recognizing the TSC certification at this time

10. Region 10: The recent meeting had more providers attend,
and working on by-laws. The team is unsure about diversion,
as this region only has PSC’s not CSC’s. Looking at LVO toolsthe team to make recommendations. Team is looking at
mode of arrival times too. Community education for nursing
homes was identified as a need, and to teach them to use 911
for stroke symptoms

Amy Barnard

11. Region 11: Educating Ems is October and roll out of 3 Item

Stroke Scale tool for LVO on November 15th. On-line
education for EMS modules with narrated power
point/Camtasia. There are 8 total CSC’s in the Region and
surrounding area which support drip and ship protocols and
inter-facility transport for EMS. More updates to come.

New Business:

Nominations for 2019 Officers (vote in November):
 Nominations for Chair:

Dr. Chris Richards

Dr. Chris Richards

 Dr. Chris Richards


Nominations for Vice Chair:
Alison Tindall



Nominations for Secretary:
Tracy Love
If any other nominee’s, please send to Tracy Love in email to
add to the ballot

Dates for2019 Meetings (vote in November):
 February 13th
 May 8th
 August 14th
 November 13th
Stroke Assessment Tool (vote in November):
 Continue to recommend FAST/Cincinnati Exam for EMS and
include verbiage of last known well and LVO screening
By-Laws (vote in November):
 Check to see if any changes to the By-laws are needed,
including the membership committee and residency
Certifying Bodies (vote in November):
 Will remove the AHA from the certifying bodies
recommendations
 Current Certifying Bodies to endorse
DNV
TJC
CIHQ
HFAP
Dr. Jordan wonders if the committee should look at the
organizations for a deeper review next year for accreditation-what
is the cost, what are the requirements, how we should proceed.
Tracy proposed we should have a subcommittee to do a deeper
review-Dr. Richards agreed

 STATE STROKE ADVISORY SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES August 8, 2018

The recommendation per Dr. Richards is we will vote on the current
certifying bodies in November, with plans to have a sub-committee
look into each organization by cost and requirements in 2019
Michelle states that currently the certifying bodies used in the state
of Illinois include DNV, TJC, and HFAP. CIHQ is not being used by
any Illinois hospitals at this time. Maybe each organization has to
register with the state and give information each year about their
certifications.
ICARE Updates (vote in November):
Dr. Esfahani was here at the last meeting to review the ICARE
updates. This will be a voting item in November.
First-The team will walk through the bill and the changes requested
Second-Update on the bill in Legislature
Julie noted that the current legislative session is over. If might be up
in the Fall but probably has to start over again in the spring
The team reviewed the legislation and proposed revision
Michelle states that IDPH legal is looking at the language related to
“evidence-based guidelines”. She states this should be more defined.
She also noted that some of this language should be in rules and
regulations, no in the law. It is easier to change rules and
regulations rather than the law.
Tracy discussed concerns over section 3.118 (c-5). She feels any
information placed on a website (proposed in the legislation) should
go through this committee to vet out the information with the stroke
experts on this team. Michelle reports that this would need a FRP,
process to choose which hospital would maintain this site, etc.
Dr. Jordan asks what does this add to the state?
There was continued robust discussion of the proposed sections to

Dr. Richards and ALL

 the bill. Concern was discussed over the “intent” of the bill-is this to
maintain a website for information on hemorrhagic stroke.
Dr. Richards discussed if these changes “water down” the law rather
than make it more robust.
Action Item: Ballot for the ICARE proposal shall read:
 Recommend/Support the proposed changes to the bill
 Do not recommend/do not support the proposed changes to
the bill
 Neutral-no recommendation to the proposed changes to the
bill
Public Comment

Peggy Jones from ICAHN noted that Genentech provided a presentation
that will take stroke centers to the next level. The numbers are good but
we must keep up community education because people have to show up
in time to get treatment.

ALL

Dr. Richards thanked Renee and Kathleen from the AHA for providing
lunch to the team, and to them and Ann Schutt from Genentech for the
Celebration for Peggy on her retirement from ICAHN.
Erin Eddy reports there is a Stroke Conference in August at the CARLE
Foundation-she has flyers or can email the information
Northwestern Medicine has a conference on October 13th for Stroke
Coordinators

Open Meetings Act
(standing item)

Any new member after January 1st, 2015 will have 90 days to
complete the OMA training.

ALL

Meeting Times

Meeting location for 2018:
Normal Fire Department-New Location
11a-3p
 November 14th

All

Adjourned

Team adjourned at 2:40 pm
Motion: Dr. Chris Richards

 STATE STROKE ADVISORY SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES August 8, 2018

Second: All

 

Name

Position

Peggy Jones

Acute Stroke Patient Advocate
Physician from a CSC
Physician from a PSC
Physician from an ASRH
EMS Coordinator
EMS Medical Director
EMS Rural Fire Chief
Fire Chief from a region > 200,000 population
Hospital Administrator from a CSC
Hospital Administrator from a PSC
Hospital Administrator from an ASRH
Private Ambulance Provider Representative
Region 1 Representative
Region 2 Representative
Region 3 Representative
Region 4 Representative
Region 5 Representative
Region 6 Representative
Region 7 Representative
Region 8 Representative
Region 9 Representative
Region 10 Representative
Region 11 Representative
RN from a CSC
RN from a PSC
RN from an ASRH
State EMS Advisory Council Representative

Dr. Kaiz Asif

Dr. Chris Richards
Tom Willan

Deborah Smith

Danelle Geraci
Tiffany Whitaker
Alison Tindall
Danielle Short
Erin Eddy
Dee Behrens
Andrea White
Amy Barnard
Sonia Winandy
Kristen Petersen
Tracy Love
Brad Perry

Attended
Yes
No

Yes
Yes
No

Yes
No
Proxy: Dr. Richards
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Proxy: Dr. Richards
No
Yes
Yes

 