Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee (MMRC)
August 8, 2018
9:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m.

George W. Dunne Building
69 W. Washington
Chicago, IL

IDPH Offices
535 West Jefferson, 5th Floor
Springfield, IL

Attendees
Members in Attendance
Robin L. Jones
Robert Abrams
Katherine Austman (Phone)
Deborah Boyle
Stacie Geller
Abby Koch
Olga Lazala
Kathryn Lindley (Phone)
Lisa Masinter
Paula Melone (Phone)
Brielle Osting
Beth Plunkett
Donald Reese
Barbara Scavone
Shirley Scott
Michael Socol
Patrick Thornton
Paloma Toledo

Guests and IDPH
Amanda Bennett, IDPH
Chelsea Dade, IDPH intern
Tanya Dworkin, IDPH
Trishna Harris, IDPH
Ashley Horne, IDPH
Shannon Lightner, IDPH
Nancy Martin, IDPH
Miranda Scott, IDPH
Alexander Smith, IDPH
Roma Allen
Daniell Ashford
Andrea Cross
Jodi Hoskins
Christy Levine
Cindy Mitchell
Members Not In Attendance
Jennifer Banayan (excused)
Joan Briller (excused)
Robert Gessner
Jerome Loew (excused)
Gary Loy (excused)
Kevin Madsen
Frank Nagorka (excused)
Heather Nixon (excused)
Lee Smith (excused)

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
August 8, 2018
Page 2 of 4

Introductions
Robin L. Jones called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM and began with introductions.

Motions
1. Motion to approve June 2018 minutes
1st Michael Socol, 2nd Shirley Scott, Unanimous Approval
2.

Motion to close for maternal death case reviews.
1st Stacie Geller, 2nd Abby Koch, Unanimous Approval

3. Motion to reopen the meeting to the public following case review.
1st Stacie Geller, 2nd Abby Koch, Unanimous Approval.
4. Motion to adjourn
1st Brielle Osting, 2nd Stacie Geller, Unanimous Approval

Minutes
The minutes from the April 2018 meeting were reviewed and approved.

Agenda Items
Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) Update

-

IDPH discussed the remaining cases for completing group recommendations from
case years 2015.
Discussed the logistics for the October meeting. Both MMRC groups will meet in
October and vote on their final recommendations from 2015.
The group asked if they could start getting information on whether the mom’s have
private or Medicaid insurance.
Suggested to possibly collaborate with ILPQC and SQC.
MMRC Mission
Amanda Bennett gave an update on the MMRC mission
o Covered the evaluation form.
o Discussed what happens “behind the scenes” at IDPH.
o Gave an update on the 2015 deaths and where both committees stand.

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
August 8, 2018
Page 3 of 4

Closed Session

-

Closed to discuss the maternal death case.

Debrief and Recommendations
Discussion of Recommendations from CY2015

-

Discussion on the recommendations that will make the biggest impact.
Suggested education plans for emergencies departments.
Discussed home visiting follow-up
Suggested to include a bucket for “legislation” and a bucket for “quality”
IDPH asked the group to think about recommendations for hospitals and providers as
there are not many current recommendations for those areas.

Patient/Family

1. Engage in state wide public education campaign and discharge education to prenatal and
postpartum women. Education programs should focus on awareness of the signs and
symptoms of cardiomyopathy and cardiac complications during pregnancy, postpartum
cardiomyopathy
2. every high risk woman meets with social worker prior to discharge from hospital
Facility

1. All clinics and emergency rooms should be required to have a sign/prompt at registration
desks that asks “have you had a baby in the last 12 months?”
2. Develop education plans for education to emergency department and EMS staff and all
healthcare providers on the care of pregnant women presenting to the ER + identification
of peripartum conditions and potential postpartum complications. IDPH should design
initiatives for education to be provided with SQC/ILPQC/Stakeholders (2)]
System

1. IDPH should develop a universal health record system that allows for sharing of medical
records between hospitals and APC’s
2. safe healthcare for every woman.org - patient safety bundle on reducing postpartum
racial disparity; expand Illinois Family Connects statewide
3. Establish a new QI entity to manage outpatient initiatives with PNC and primary care
providers; address gaps in outpatient care and services available across the state

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
August 8, 2018
Page 4 of 4

4. Payers promote connection with primary care and necessary specialists as opposed to
accessing all medical care through the Emergency Department, provide patient navigator
or case manager to follow up on postpartum visit
5. Implementation of perinatal and postpartum checklist for patients’ long term care and
planning (see healthychoiceshealthyfutures checklist)
6. Increase state funding of case management activities
7. Reinstitute policies for maternal discharge data collection to local health departments for
case management and appropriate follow up

Next Steps
- A small committee will look at the recommendations and will bring it back for larger
-

group to look at.
The small group will also look at quality and reporting.
Next meeting is October 10th and will have a vote on the 2015 case year
recommendations.

Adjournment
-

Motion to adjourn the meeting from Brielle Osting with a second from Stacie Geller
with unanimous approval.

 