Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
October 8, 2015
Page 1 of 5

Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Maternal Mortality Review Committee – Violent Deaths (MMRC-V)
May 8, 2018
10:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
IDPH Offices
122 S. Michigan, 7th Floor, Rm 711
Chicago, IL

IDPH Offices
535 West Jefferson, 4th Floor
Springfield, IL

Attendees
Members in Attendance
Maripat Zeschke (Chair)
Thomas Barker
Kara Driscoll
Stacie Geller

Katherine Kane-Willis
Jo Kim
Carrie Klima
Abby Koch
Jerome Loew
Bakahia Madison
Jennifer Martin
Denise McCaffrey
Cindy Mitchell

Shirley Scott
Lita Simanis
Vickie Smith
Carole Warshaw

Guests and IDPH
Amanda Bennett, IDPH
Tanya Dworkin, IDPH
Trishna Harris, IDPH
Ashley Horne, IDPH
Christi Jackson, IDPH
Shannon Lightner, IDPH
Andrea Palmer, IDPH
Virginia Reising, IDPH
Miranda Scott, IDPH
Alexander Smith, IDPH
Kelly Vrablic, IDPH

Roma Allen
Daniell Ashford
Andrea Cross
Robyn Gude
Jodi Hoskins
Elaine Shafer
Members Not In Attendance

Deborah Boyle (excused)
Erica Davis
Robert Gessner (excused)
Cindy Guerra
Nora Harms-Pavelski (excused)
Jaclyn Rodriguez (excused)
Amber Truehart (excused)
Teresa Tudor (excused)

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
MATERNAL MORALITY REVIEW COMMITTEE – VIOLENT DEATHS (PAC SUB-COMMITTEE)
May 8, 2018
Page 2 of 5

Introductions
Meeting was called to order about 10:00 AM. Everyone introduced themselves and what agency they are
from. Since there were new members to the committee, the members also gave further introduction of
themselves.

Motions
1. Motion to approve minutes from January 2018.
- 1st Stacie Geller, 2nd Jo Kim, Unanimous Yes.
2. Motion to close session to review the cases/abstracts and membership.
- 1st Shirley Scott, 2nd Abby Koch, Unanimous Yes
3. Motion to recommend to PAC to add Bernadette Ray to the sub-committee.
- Unanimous Approval
4. Motion to recommend to PAC to add Barbara Parilla to the sub-committee.
- Unanimous Approval
5. Motion to adjourn the meeting
- 1st Carrie Klima, 2nd Abby Koch , Unanimous Yes

Minutes
The minutes from January 2018 were approved with a motion from Stacie Geller and a second
from Jo Kim. Passed with unanimous approval.

Agenda Items
1. IDPH Update

-

The Illinois Department of Public Health was on hand to give a few updates.
IDPH spoke about the CDC meeting that Shannon Lightner, Amanda Bennett, and Ashley
Horne attended.
o Illinois received an award for the work being done on the maternal mortality
review committees
o The meeting gave ideas of how to disseminate findings and recommendations
to come out of the groups

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
MATERNAL MORALITY REVIEW COMMITTEE – VIOLENT DEATHS (PAC SUB-COMMITTEE)
May 8, 2018
Page 3 of 5
-

It was suggested that when the report comes out for the case year 2015 findings that both
maternal mortality review groups be able to send inquiries and preview the document.
Amanda Bennett did a power point presentation on the overarching goal of the committee.
Ashley Horne spoke about the recommendations so far for case year 2015 and also
recommendations that came from the last meeting
o Some statistics were given for recommendations by domain, completeness of
records, conditions contributing to cause of death for 2015 cases, agreement
between committee cause of death versus the cause listed on the death
certificate, and critical factors
- Amanda Bennett also showed some data on opioid related deaths broken down into a
prescription, heroin, methadone, or synthetic. The highest rate of increases were in
synthetic and heroin.
2. Closed Session for Case Review and New Members

-

The session was closed approximately at 10:42 AM to review the eight cases to be
presented to the committee as well two resumes of potential new members.
The meeting was reopened with a motion from Abby Koch, and a 2nd from Carrie Klima.
3. Debrief

-

The committee has completed case year 2015.
Discussion on the case load of the committee. Asked if the committee should continue
reviewing every type of death.
Amanda could look at putting together timing of death as well as type of death.
Suggested that the last meeting of each year could look at how the recommendations can
be disseminated.
Recommended to help reduce abstracting process: The post-partum violent deaths, the
prenatal records yield very little help.
Discussed having a workgroup look at the recommendations and how they will be reported.
This workgroup will look at language and how to combine previous recommendations.
Recommendations from this meeting:
Patient/Family

1. Increase public awareness around signs and symptoms of postpartum depression; support
public awareness of the MOMS line for PPD, as well as resources for immediate
assessment (also incorporate this into L&D discharge information) (3)
2. IDPH should recommend that all patients coming from drug treatment at any level of care
have "collateral" in the form of family members who are educated on the patient’s
condition and treatment and are supportive of their recovery, and are educated on the
signs and symptoms of overdose. (4)

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
MATERNAL MORALITY REVIEW COMMITTEE – VIOLENT DEATHS (PAC SUB-COMMITTEE)
May 8, 2018
Page 4 of 5
3. IDPH should work with law enforcement and community partners to increase gun safety
education
4. Identify high risk moms for home visiting in the very early postpartum period; improve
the reach of these programs to more zip codes and accessibility to women with unstable
housing; emphasize the high risk dyad of mom and baby together
Community

1. IDPH to identify existing substance abuse treatment facilities in Illinois that take
pregnant women. IDPH to work with communities and MCO's to create substance abuse
programs that care for pregnant women; increase education of existing SA programs (1)
2. IDPH should work with community partners to promote awareness of resources for
treatment and services for women with substance use disorders in the community. (2)
3. IDPH should recommend that funding for violence disruption programs like Cease Fire
be increased and implemented throughout the state
4. IDPH should work with local law enforcement to do outreach and social services for
gang members
5. IDPH should recommend that screening for domestic violence and community violence
is required during prenatal care, delivery hospitalization and in any ER visits during
pregnancy, especially visits that may be injury related. (i.e. "what do you perceive your
risk of community violence is?"
Provider

1. IDPH should enforce medical providers and emergency department staff to utilize the
prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) database and internal medical records to
check for past opiate prescriptions and/or patterns of drug seeking behavior in patients.
(6)
2. IDPH should recommend that pediatric providers provide regular gun safety education
and risk assessment during doctor’s visits.
3. Providers should screen for unstable living conditions during prenatal care using a
nuanced, specific evaluation (1)
4. IDPH should encourage providers to adopt new recommendation for seeing postpartum
women sooner than 6 weeks after delivery (1)
Facility

1. IDPH should provide recommendations for use of validated screening tools to be used
consistently in evaluating substance use; APC clinical outreach educators should provide
education and training to providers on how to use these screening tools and how tools
should be integrated into healthcare EMR systems (2)

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
MATERNAL MORALITY REVIEW COMMITTEE – VIOLENT DEATHS (PAC SUB-COMMITTEE)
May 8, 2018
Page 5 of 5
2. IDPH should work with existing substance abuse centers to establish protocol for all
healthcare facilities for educating the patient on overdose prevention and harm reduction
techniques as well as regularly prescribing naloxone to women who are treated for
overdose or substance use (2)
3. Implement the new recommendations for post-operative C-section pain relief guidelines
to avoid opioid prescribing: alternative pain meds at delivery for anyone with history of
opioid use disorder (AAP/FDA/ACOG)
System

1. Increase care coordination following discharge from an inpatient psychiatric
hospitalization
2. Establish points of definitive care for psychiatry during pregnancy and the postpartum
period, especially in southern/rural Illinois. Explore options for telemedicine when access
to direct psychiatric care is not available. (3)
3. Adequate supply of Narcan to be prescribed to women along with education on signs of
overdose (3)
4. IDPH should recommend that correctional facilities (jails and prisons) in Illinois should
provide identification of substance use disorders on intake, treatment during stay, and
referral, education and naloxone prescription when releasing known substance users.
5. IDPH should recommend that correctional facilities (jails and prisons) in Illinois screen
all women of childbearing age for pregnancy screening for current and/or recent
pregnancy upon admission to the facility
6. IDPH should encourage the statewide initiative on immediate postpartum contraception

4. Next Steps

- Next meeting will discuss recommendations.
- Ashley Horne will put together the recommendations for case year 2015 and have the
workgroup review.

Adjournment
1st Carrie Klima motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Abby Koch, with a unanimous
approval.

 