 Ream; 
56? G??wa?d, Suite 
De?cit, as; 43225

    

CODE EDC 19-05-02-312

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF APRIL 23. 2019 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of April 23, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic Development
Corporation.

May 9, 2019

  

509 Griswold, Suite 2299
Benoit, Mi 48228

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 2019 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha Bruhn

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte
Kwaku Osei
Matthew Roling
Jonathan Quarles
Thomas Stallworth

Maurice Cox (Ex-Offioio)
Damon Hodge
Chris Jackson
John Nagliok (Ex?Of?cio)

None

Jon Newton (Waterfront East Development Project)

Pierre Batton 
Gay Hilger 

Paul Kako 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Glen Long 
Andrew Lucco 
Rebecca Nevin 
Sarah Pavelko 
Mariangela Pledl 
Kelly Shovan 

a 5?
New

no new: use: semen! {one-o senes- I
509 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 43226

    

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 2019

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Chairperson Forte called the Regular meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:34 am.

GENERAL

Approval of Minutes

Ms. Forte asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
March 26, 2019 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Code EDC 19?04?02-
311 was unanimously approved.

Receipt of Treasgrer?s Reports

Ms. Shovan reviewed the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the months of
February and March 2019 for the benefit of the Board. With there being no questions or
discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Quarles, Resolution Codes EDC 19-04-03-
237 and EDC 19?04?03?238 were unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
Waterfront East Project Plan: Use of Funds for Planning Services on the Uniroyal Site

Ms. Pavelko informed that the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority holds a
Development Agreement (as amended, the ?Agreement?) with Bettie/Batters Development, LLC
(the ?Developer?) for the property commonly known as the Uniroyal Site. The Developer has
requested the DBRA phase the development and drawdown of land for the 42?acre site. This
phasing approach requires a master plan to create informed phasing and parcel boundaries for a
subsequent amendment to the Agreement.

April 23, 2019

    

(a on gut-ermine: 

soc Griswold, Suite 2206
Detroit, tilt 43226

The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the and DBRA executed
the Interlocal Agreement (the ?lnterlocal Agreement") on September 24, 2013. The purpose of
the lnterlocal Agreement was to facilitate implementation of the East Riverfront Plan. in
accordance with the provisions of the lnterlocal Agreement, and in furtherance of the Developer?s
proposal, the DBRA has requested the EDC to assist in providing funding for a master planning
process with the Developer.

DBRA staff has negotiated a scope of work for the services described in the attached Exhibit A
(the ?Services?) with the planning and architectural firm Skidmore, Owings and Merrill to
create a Uniroyal Master Plan. is a Chicago-based firm and was selected through a
competitive process to lead the East Riverfront District Framework planning process. The Detroit
Riverfront Conservancy (the in collaboration with the City of Detroit Planning and
Development Department and the EDC recently completed the 10-month planning engagement
and launched the East Riverfront Framework. For this planning process, a Request for
Qualifications and Proposals was issued in November 2015 and twenty-four responses were
received. After an internal review process, publicly held interviews were conducted with six
selected firms in July 2016. Over 300 residents and stakeholders attended the interviews. SOM
was selected based on its experience on projects of similar scope, size and complexity, expertise
in waterfront and community planning, and the local representation and partners. SOM has
knowledge of the area, stakeholders, and developed vision that makes them uniquely qualified to
complete a high quality and cost?effective master planning process expeditiously. The total cost
for the services is an amount not to exceed $200,080 (the ?Service Fee?).

DBRA and the Developer will share the cost of the Service Fee equally. The EDC is being asked
to contribute an amount equal to 50% of the Service Fee to the DBRA to assist in funding the
Services. The contribution and acceptance of these funds will be pursuant to a funding agreement
entered into between the EDC and the DBRA.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
A discussion took place regarding the following issues:

. The community driven process that was recently completed on this project, who will
approve the master plan, and the need for the master plan to be presented to the various
stakeholders in the community.

. Alternative, if this planning process is not approved, would allow the developer to move
forward with the 2006 development agreement with DBRA as currently drafted, in which
the community, DBRA and City have no approval rights of what the planning is on the site.

. Environmental condition of the site and developer?s responsibility to remove contamination
on the site.

at Background on the project and development agreement approved by the Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority in 2006 and the economic conditions at that time versus today.

. Source of funding of one?half of the study coming from casino bond money, or taxpayers?
dollars.

April 23, 2019

 

Detroit, ?$143226

Basic outcome expected of this master plan.

What will hold the developers contractually to the master plan.

Phasing of the project.

Planning for public education in the project area.

Affordable housing in project area.

Timeiine and ?hard time requirements? for the project.

Consequences of not approving the East Riverfront District Framework planning process.

Subsequent to the discussion, Ms. Bruhn stated that she would like to make a motion to amend
Exhibit A Scope of Services (attached) to inctude, ?as part of Stage 3 of the Agreement, a
community meeting with stakeholders wiil be held to present the Master Pian."

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Queries, Resolution Code EDC 19-04-70-
92 was approved, as amended, with Mr. Roling opposing.

Motor City Match: Recommendation to Extend Award Deadline and Change Project
Address

Ms. Pledl advised that on June 1, 2015, the Motor City Match program began accepting
applications for Round 1 of the Business Owner Award Track, including the ?Cash" Award Track.
The ?Cash? Award Track awards businesses who have a business plan, a secured space, and
funds available to invest in their project a grant up to $100,000 to assist in the business? project.

Since June 1, 2015, the EDC has awarded Cash grants to 159 businesses in the City of Detroit
and, pursuant to the terms of the grant agreement executed between the EDC and the awardees,
awardees are required to access their grant within one (1) year from the date of board approval
to use its ?Cash? award. While many awardees are able to complete their respective project within
the one (1) year term, twelve (12) awardees (the ?Awardees?) were unable to secure all of the
financing required for the project and have experienced other unexpected delays which prevented
the Awardees from completing their project within a year.

In order for the Awardees to complete their projects and use the funding under their respective
?Cash? grant awards, EDC staff recommends that the one (1) year term for ?Cash? award period
be extended by one (1) additionai year, through April 30th, 2020, for the following Awardees:

Tiki?s Treasures: Tiki?s Treasures, a Round 6 grantee, is planning a mixed?use rehab of
a historical building across the street from the Motown Museum. Teresa ?Tiki? Singleton
will occupy the main floor with Tiki?s Treasures, a consignment and vintage resale shop.
Through pop?ups and online sales, Tiki?s Treasures has developed a loyal foliowing
throughout the city. One additional tenant will occupy the ground floor, while two
residential units will be rentable on the second ?oor. Tiki's project transformed after the
challenges creating a second-floor retail space made it clear that residential units were
more feasible. Construction will begin later this spring.

April 23, 2019

 

Detroit, Ml 48226

One Stop Property Maintenance LLC: One Stop Property Maintenance LLC, a Round
9 grantee, provides year~round custom facility maintenance solutions to businesses in the
Metro Detroit area. One Stop focuses on hiring locai whenever possible and takes pride
in being part of Detroit's resurgence. Owner Kenji Lemon is completing a total
reconstruction of two vacant commercial spaces and reactivating a stretch of Hamilton
north of Boston Edison. Construction is underway, and with the final financing pieces in
place, will be completed by August.

Cooking with Que: Cooking with Que, a Round 10 grantee, teaches Detroiters how to
?Eat to Live? by introducing more plant-based foods into everyday life. Owner Quiana
Broden will provide cooking classes, an event space, and a rentabie kitchen for other food
based businesses all around the premise that food is medicine that can change your iifei
Cooking with Que is putting the finishing touches on construction and plans an opening
celebration on May 10th.

Mac Galleries: Mac Galleries, a Round 10 grantee, began 26 years ago as a father, son
collaboration around a love of photography and art from the African diaspora. Mac
Galleries sells iocal and international works of art and provides custom framing services.
Mac Galleries has expanded their operations to include an online sales gallery and
distribution. Mac Galleries is finalizing financing to complete the project.

Spot Lite: Spot Lite, a Round 11 grantee, is an art gallery, performance space, and special
events venue in Detroit's Heidelberg Arts District. in addition to the exhibition venue, a bar
cafe wlil be open 6 days a week for neighborhood residents. Owners Roula David and
Jesse Cory are transitioning operations of their arts business from Eastern Market to their
new home on Beaufait. Spot Lite is currently completing plan review with the city of Detroit
and hopes to be open by June.

Petty Cash Kitchen Cocktail Bar: Petty Cash Kitchen Cocktail Bar, a Round 11
grantee, will be a premier Detroit local gathering place for young Detroiters in the heart of
the Livernois Corridor. The venue will combine a refreshing atmosphere with good food,
great music and excellent cocktails. Petty Cash is under construction and plans to open
by September.

The Upperow: The Upperow, a Round 11 grantee, offers classy, upscale, versatile, and
exclusive clothing for men, women, and children. The Upperow will sell high quality,
handmade goods available exclusively in Detroit. Construction on the space at 5734
Woodward wili begin in May, with opening scheduled for fall.

Paramita Sound: Paramita Sound, a Round 11 grantee, fosters inclusive community
through music. Construction is underway on a new permanent location that wiil include a
small bar to go along with a world-renowned record selection. Paramita has been a stapie
of the Detroit music scene and looks to expand its scope and reach more people 

April 23, 2019

    

sea Griswold, Suite 2290
permit, at: 48226

particulariy marginalized groups. After recently completing a crowdfunding campaign, the
Paramita team is aiming to open by Memorial Day.

Grandmont Rosedale Development Corporation: Grandmont Rosedale Development
Corporation, a Round 11 grantee, is using its building at 19566 Grand River to offer an
entertainment and event space for the neighborhood. New tenant and Motor City Match
Awardee HM Style Lounge will offer a casual venue for music and drinks, along with
rentable event space and regular pop?up dinners. Construction is underway and is
scheduled for completion in July.

Further, in addition to extending the following ?Cash? award grants by a period of one (1) year,
EDC staff also recommended that the location of the following Awardees be updated to reflect
each Awardee?s new address:

Lacquered L.L.C.: Lacquered LLC., a Round 8 grantee, is a new upscale nail bar on the
Avenue of Fashion. After originalty planning to locate at 18685 Livernois Ave. in the
Avenue of Fashion, Lacquered has moved to the new B. Siegle development located at
19031 Livernois and on the corner of Livernois and Seven Mile. Lacquered provides
manicure and pedicure services with a range of options that offers clients a relaxing,
luxurious experience. Owners Paige Pearson and Sondrayvonne Morton are working to
complete the design process in preparation for final construction to their space in May.

The Platinum Chef: The Platinum Chef, a Round 9 grantee, is a company that specializes
in vegan, vegetarian, and Caribbean cuisines and baked goods. TPC products are sold in
local Whole Foods Markets, Kroger, and Johnny Pomodoro's, and recently expanded
distribution to several Chicago area Whole Foods. After issues with the initial location at
1111 Believue St., owner Rhoda St. Luce is in the process of finalizing a purchase
agreement for property located at 18601 West McNichols. Rhoda pians to convert the
former Knudsen?s Bakery into a rentable commercial kitchen and whoiesale distribution
hub.

The Millionairess: The Miliionairess, a Round 11 grantee, will offer a full services salon
and retail for women. The salon offers a full suite of services including hair, nails and
facials. As a retailer the Mitiionairess will offer a vast variety of clothing, shoes, and
accessories for ail seasons. Owner Arnita Parham originally planned to locate her
business at 19434 Livernois in the Avenue of Fashion but has since moved locations to
19489 Livernois. Arnita is completing designs for the new space and hopes to begin
construction in May.

Finally, EDC staff recommended the Board approve a ?Cash? grant award to Chane Street
Produce LLC. Chene Street Produce LLC is a new legal entity formed by the previous Round 11
grantee, Chene Street Grocers, to complete and finance their project. Chene Street Produce LLC
is a email grocery store, cafe, and apothecary in the Poietown East neighborhood of Detroit.
Chene Street Produce LLC also houses a rentable commerial kitchen to provide rental space for

April 23, 2019

    

sari Griswold, suite 2260
Detroit, Mi 48223

Detroit~based businesses that create healthy, sustainable food products such as condiments and
fermentations. The original awardee, Chane Street Grocers, grant period has expired. EDC staff
is recommending the approval of a Round 11 "Cash? award in the amount of $50,000 to Ghana
Street Produce LLC.

A resolution approving the staff?s recommendations was included for the Board?s consideration.

Ms. Clayson stated that she had previously requested that the business owner be identified, and
she sees that in some of the write-ups it is included and in some it isn?t. Ms. Pledl responded that
in future memos, she wouid be sure to include the business owner's name next to the name of
the business.

Mr. Osai said that at an eariier meeting, there was a discussion about revising the Rounds of the
Motor City Match and Re-Store Programs and asked where that stands. Mr. Batten advised that
they are currently reviewing their capacity to operate on a quarterly basis, taking into
consideration internal staff capacities and outcomes produced from a numbers standpoint by
tracking from previous years. Conditions are changing in the marketplace. Costs have gone up
for small businesses in the last two or three years, the building capacity of some of the
construction firms is tight and construction costs have gone up 50 percent. That has been a real
challenge. DZD is something we are looking to build out a little more this year to be able to assist
Motor City Match/Re?Store and other businesses. Right now, we are continuing to operate on a
quarterly basis. A full report will be brought back to the Board in the next month or so.

Mr. Osei requested that the Board be provided information regarding the 02D Program.
Ms. Navin mentioned that previously the 029 program was funded through the 501(c)(3)
organization, the Detroit Economic Growth Association. Whether or not that program will be

managed and run through the EDC is still an open question, largely depending on funding
sources.

Ms. Bruhn advised that she requested at the last meeting that the write-ups for the Motor City
Match cash awards reflect the recipient's track record, the history of the group, the equity they
are bringing to the project, and what the source of the remaining funds is going to be. Mr. Batten
advised that they do have that information and will be happy to share it with the Board.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 19-04-91?88
was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commerciai Corridor Revitalization Program: Awardee Education

Ms. Pledl reported that in connection with the Motor City Match program administered by the
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the winners in the Business

April 23, 2019

    

580 Griswoid, Suite 2200
Detroit, is: 48226

Plan, Pop-Up, Space, and Design tracks receive educational classes from approved providers.
On October 5, 2018 EDC staff issued a request for proposals to solicit bid proposals for
small business technical assistance in the following categories:

. Common Legal Issues for New and Expanding Businesses
. Market research

. Marketing and Social Media

. Hiring and Human Resources

. Financing and Capital Readiness

. Operations and Customer Service

. Merchandising

. Inventory Management

. Accounting

10. Cash Flow Management

11. Design for Small Business

12. Websites and Online Sales

13. Site Selection

14. Working with an Architect

15. Permitting, Licensing, Ordinances and Inspections
16. Triple Bottom Line Practices

17. Operating a Pop?up Business

18. industry specific best practices

a. Retail

b. Restaurants and food-based businesses
0. Small Scale Manufacturing

d. Personal care and services

e. Education

f. Health/wellness

g. Makers/design

h. Co-working



This solicitation was made pursuant the ?small purchase procedure? method of procurement per
24 CFR 

EDC staff received twenty~seven (27) total proposals to the RFP. EDC staff reviewed the
proposals and sought to identify a qualified firm(s) based on, but not limited to, the proposal?s
overall responsiveness and quality, the ability of the proposer to perform the required services,
the prior experience of the proposer, the cost of services, and consideration of small, minority-
owned, or women?owned firms. Based on the foregoing, EDC staff determined that Love Publicity
and FoodLab to be the two most qualified and most responsive to the RFP. Both firms are Detroit?
based businesses and Love Publicity is a woman?owned business.

Accordingly, staff requested authorization from the Board to enter into Professional Services
Agreements, each for a term of one-year, with an option to extend for one-year, for amounts and

April 23, 2019

    

sea Griswoid. Suite 2206
Detroit, 48225

services set forth in Exhibit A included in the Board material. A resolution was also included for
the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Osei requested that the Board be provided a list of the other 25 respondents to the RFP.

Mr. Osei aiso stated that last October, the Board discussed possibly reducing the number of
vendors. Mr. Batton explained that selecting the right provider of technical assistance for the
awardee is very important and a iot of times, the business owner does not know what kind of
technical assistance they need. it is kind of like a Motor City Match university in some ways with
specific types of technical assistance to provide awardees with the specific technical assistance
needed in the most efficient and proficient way.

Mr. Stallworth questioned if consideration is being given on the types of business and the iocations
chosen. Mr. Batton replied that they are using the Retail Market Study that was done last year
that forms a lot of this work. All types of goods and services in all areas of the city are needed
and are not at 100 percent capacity in any area. The focus is not on what type of business at this
point, but more on making sure the business be sustainable. The DEGC also has a retail
attraction manager who can assist in the reiteration of different types of businesses in different
areas, making sure there isn?t, for an example, five coffee shops right next to one another.
Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Osei, seconded by Mr. Stallworth, Resolution Code EDC 19-04-91-
89 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS

Ms. Kanalos reminded the Board that a Speciai EDC Board meeting is scheduled next Tuesday,
April 30, 2019 at 9:00 am.

PUBLIC COMMENT
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Forte adjourned the meeting
at 9:42 am.

April 23, 2019

    

seoerssword. Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48225

CODE EDC 19-04-02-311

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MARCH 26, 2019 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of March 26, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such

minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic Development
Corporation.

April 23, 2019

 

Detroit. ME 48226

CODE EDC 19-04-03-237

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR FEBRUARY 2019

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period
ending February 28, 2019, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in ali respects accepted as
action of the Economic Development Corporation.

April 23, 2019

    

"ex
500 Griswold. Suite 2200
Detroit. MI 48226

CODE EDC 19-04-03-238

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT FOR MARCH 2019

RESOLVED, that the Treasurer?s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period
ending March 31, 2019, as presented at this meeting, is hereby in all respects accepted as action
of the Economic Development Corporation.

April 23, 2019

  

hire emanati-

590 Griswaid, Suite 220a
Detroit, a: 43225

 

CODE EDC 19-04~70-92
(As amended at the Table)

WATERFRONT EAST PROJECT PLAN: USE OF FUNDS FOR SERVICES ON
THE UNIROYAL SITE

WHEREAS, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority holds a
Development Agreement (as amended, the ?Agreement?) with Bettie/Batters Deveiopment, LLC
(the ?Deveioper?) for the property commonly known as the Uniroyal Site whereby the Developer
has requested the DBRA phase the development and drawdown of land for the 42-acre site,
requiring a master plan be deveioped for the Site; and

WHEREAS, the EDC and DBRA executed an lnteriocal Agreement to facilitate
implementation of the East Riverfront Plan and in connection with such interlocal Agreement, the
DBRA has requested the EDC assist in in providing funding for a master planning process with
the Developer; and

WHEREAS, DBRA staff has negotiated a scope of work for the services described in the
attached Exhibit A (the ?Services") with the planning and architectural firm Skidmore, Owings
and Merrill to create a Uniroyal Master Plan is an amount not to exceed $200,080 (the
?Service Fee?); and

WHEREAS, the EDC is being asked to contribute an amount equal to 50% of the Service
Fee to the DBRA to assist in funding the Services; and

WHEREAS, the contribution and the acceptance of such funds will be
pursuant to a funding agreement entered into between the EDC and the DBRA.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT, RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the transfer of an amount equal to 50% of the Service Fee to the DBRA to assist in
funding the Services to the DBRA for the sole purpose of providing funding for the master plan
subject to the execution of a funding agreement between the EDC and DBRA governing the
contribution and acceptance of such funds.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any
one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents, shall hereafter have
the authority to negotiate and execute the funding agreement consistent with the above described
terms, together with such other terms and conditions that are determined by such Authorized
Agents and/or Of?cers to be customary or appropriate and not inconsistent with this resolution,
and to negotiate and execute all other documents, contracts, or papers, and take all actions,
necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the
EDC.

  

509 Griswoid, Sutte 2200
Detroit, MI 43226

 

BE iT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contempiated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken priorto execution of these resolutions, are

hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 23, 2019

    

50o Griswold. Suite 239
Detroit, at! 48226

EXHIBIT A

UNIROYAL SCOPE OF WORK OVERVIEW
(as amended at the Table)

Base Scope:

Stage 1: Project Analysis, Mapping Programming (2 weeks)
Stage 2: Visioning Master Planning Options (4 weeks)
Stage 3: Preferred Master Plan Concept (4 weeks)

The project will begin with Project Analysis, Mapping Preliminary Programming, and an analysis
stage where we discover the physical, and stakeholder context for the master plan. A key outcome
of this stage is a opportunities and constraints map that helps guide the physical planning of the
project through all stages of work. Also, important to this stage, and the entire project, will be the
guiding principles that provide a conceptual master plan for design strategies and decision
making.

Next, in the Visioning Master Planning Options stage, we generate two (2) master plan concepts
that respond to the various development and programmatic scenarios identified in the analysis
stage. Each master plan concept will address guiding principles through a physical framework
and provide test fitting of program scenarios through three-dimensional massing, plan diagrams
and program adjacency options. The two options will represent a preferred option, and a near
term option, along with a high-level cost estimate. All cost estimates will be provided by others.
We will create 3 wireframe renderings (total) to illustrate the defining and differentiating elements
of each vision option.

In the third stage, Preferred Master Plan Concept, we further develop the master plan to respond
to the design criteria, and further produce compelling design visualizations and prepare detailed
strategies to help implement the vision. A community meeting with stakeholders will be held to
present the Master Plan. 

Meetings:
Four in?person meetings with our design leadership.
Our kickoff meeting to commence Stage 1 will be undertaken online and will be followed by two

workshops in Detroit with the Bettis/Betters, DEGC and other City team, and any relevant
stakeholders invited by you

    

sue Griswold, Sute 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

CODE EDC 19-04-91-88

MOTOR CITY MATCH: RECOMMENDATION T0 EXTEND AWARD DEADLINE AND CHANGE
PROJECT ADDRESS

WHEREAS, the following businesses have been previously awarded a Motor City Match
?Cash? Grant during various award rounds: Tiki's Treasures, One Stop Property Maintenance
LLC, Cooking with Que, Mac Galleries, Spot Lite, Petty Cash Kitchen CocktalliBar, The
Upperow, Paramita Sound, Grandmont Rosedale Development Corporation, Lacquered LLC,
The Platinum Chef, The Millionairess (collectively, the ?Awardees?); and

WHEREAS, Motor City Match Cash Awardees have one year from the date of EDC Board
approval to use their cash award; and

WHEREAS, due to delays in securing financing, completing the project, and other
unforeseen obstacles, the Awardees were unable to complete the project and use all of the Cash
grant funds within the one?year term; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends that the Awardees Cash grant term be extended by
approximately one (1) year from to the date of this resolution to March 31, 2020; and

WHEREAS, three of the Awardees being Lacquered LLC., The Platinum Chef and The
Millionairess have changed their location from 18685 Livernois to 19031 Livernois for Lacquered
LLC, from 1111 Bellevue to 18601 West McNichols for The Platinum Chef, and from 19434
Livernois to 19489 Livernois for the Millionairess; and

WHEREAS, a Round 11 ?Cash? grant awardee, Chene Street Grocers, has formed a new
legal entity being Chene Street Produce LLC to complete their proposed project and staff is
recommending the approval of the previously issued award of Fifty Thousand and 00/100
Dollars to be awarded to Chene Street Produce and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s recommendation is
appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, EDC Board of Directors recommends that the
one-year time limit the Awardees have to make full use of grant funds be extended by
approximately one (1) year from the date of this resolution to March 31, 2020.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors recommends that the address
for the previously approved Awardees, Lacquered LLC, The Platinum Chef and The Millionairess,
be updated to reflect the new project address being 19031 Livernois for Lacquered LLC, 18601
West McNichols for The Platinum Chef and 19489 Livernois for the Millionairess.

 

Detroit, MI (?8226

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors recommends the approval of
a ?Cash? grant award in the amount of Fifty Thousand and 00/ 100 Dotlars to Chene
Street Produce LLC.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any
one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers and to take such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behatf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these resolutions,
are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 23, 2019

  

tire" I cm:

501'} Griswold, Suite 2209
Detroit, Mi 48226

 

CODE EDC 19-04-9169

MOTOR MATCH: AWARDB-AEDUCATION

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit has
developed small business and commercial corridor revitalization programs, including Motor City
Match (the ?Program?) using Community Development Block Grant funds from the City of Detroit;
and 

WHEREAS, Business Owner Awardees (Business Plan, Pop-Up, Space, and Design)
may receive educational classes from the Program approved provider to meet individual business
needs;and

WHEREAS, the EDC solicited bid proposals on October 5, 2018 RFP for small business
education classes to Program participants; and

WHEREAS, based on review of twenty-seven (27) responses to the solicitation, staff
desires to contract with two (2) service providers; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to enter into Professional
Services Agreements, each for a term of one-year, with an option to extend for one?year, for small
business education classes with the providers, and in the amounts, set forth on Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s recommendation is
appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of Professional Services Agreements, each for a term
of one-year, with an option to extend for one?year, for smali business education classes with the
providers, and in the amounts, set forth on Exhibit A.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any
one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers and to take such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken priorto the execution of these resolutions,
are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

April 23, 2019

    

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Ml 48226

Exhibit A
Service Provider Scope and Fees

Provider: Love Pubiicity

Not to Exceed Contract Amount: $30,000.00

Scope: Up to four (4) classes annually in branding and marketing. Each class will serve up to
fifteen (15) students per quarter for a cost of Four Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 
per quarter, being Eighteen Thousand and 00/100 for the term. Students may
receive elective cne?on?one consulting for an additional charge of $200 per hour for a total up to
fifteen (15) sessions among the awardees per quarter for a total of Three Thousand and 00/100
per quarter being Tweive Thousand and 00/100 Dollars for the term. A
notice to proceed will be issued at the beginning of each round to ensure that sufficient demand
exists for the courses and resources are adequately managed.

Provider: FoodLab

Not to Exceed Contract Amount: $16,000.00

Scope: Up to eight (8) classes annualiy in designing the business model for your food business
and other industry speci?c workshops. Classes will be held up to two (2) times per quarter. The
classes will serve up to twenty (20) students each per quarter for a total cost for $4,000. A notice
to proceed will be issued at the beginning of each round to ensure that sufficient demand exists
for the courses and resources are adequately managed.

