Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee (MMRC)
June 13, 2018
9:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m.

George W. Dunne Building
69 W. Washington
Chicago, IL

IDPH Offices
535 West Jefferson, 5th Floor
Springfield, IL

Attendees
Members in Attendance
Robin L. Jones
Katherine Austman
Jennifer Banayan
Deborah Boyle
Joan Briller
Stacie Gellers
Abby Koch
Olga Lazala
Jerome Loew
Gary Loy
Lisa Masinter
Paula Melone
Frank Nagorka
Brielle Osting
Beth Plunkett
Donald Reese
Shirley Scott
Michael Socol
Lee Smith
Patrick Thornton
Paloma Toledo

Guests and IDPH
Amanda Bennett, IDPH
Bethany Dominik, IDPH
Tanya Dworkin, IDPH
Ashley Horne, IDPH
Shannon Lightner, IDPH
Nancy Martin, IDPH
Rachel Mason, IDPH
Miranda Scott, IDPH
Alexander Smith, IDPH
Kolawole Ale
Roma Allen
Daniell Ashford
Alison Bowen
Andrea Cross
Robyn Gude
Jodi Hoskins
Cindy Mitchell
Gretchen Martin
Kristen Moore
Mary Pell Abernathy
Virginia Reising
Elaine Shafer
Maripat Zeschke
Members Not In Attendance
Robert Abrams (excused)
Robert Gessner
Kathryn Lindley (excused)
Kevin Madsen (excused)
Heather Nixon (excused)
Barbara Scavone (excused)

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
June 13, 2018
Page 2 of 4

Introductions
Robin L. Jones called the meeting to order at 9:00 AM and began with introductions. Asked
everyone on the committee to give a brief background on themselves due to the number of new
members to the committee.

Motions
1. Motion to approve April 2018 minutes
Unanimous Approval
2.

Motion to close for maternal death case reviews.
1st Stacie Geller, 2nd Jennifer Banayan, Unanimous Approval

3. Motion to reopen the meeting to the public following case review.
1st Beth Plunkett, 2nd Deborah Boyle, Unanimous Approval.
4. Motion to adjourn
1st Stacie Geller, 2nd Jerome Loew, Unanimous Approval

Minutes
The minutes from the April 2018 meeting were reviewed and approved.

Agenda Items
Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) Update

-

IDPH welcomed employees from Indiana’s Department of Public Health who
attended the meeting to view the meeting. Indiana is looking to implement something
similar in their state.
Amanda Bennett and Ashley Horne are at a conference and are calling into meeting.
The meeting will run slightly differently, but Tanya Dworkin and Miranda Scott will
be doing the note taking for the meeting.
IDPH informed the committee that the violent death group has completed their 2015
case review.

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
June 13, 2018
Page 3 of 4

-

IDPH asked that the group not make major presentations on MMRC results. When
the larger results are published, they want the group to all be on the same page and
work towards being collaborative with finalized data.
Brielle Osting talked about an Everthrive event happening. The event will highlight
trends in maternal mortality.
Amanda Bennett gave an update on opioid related data.
Amanda Bennett then gave a refresher on the goals and progress of the MMRC
groups:
o The MMRC has reviewed 30 so far. 5 will be looked at today and there are 6
remaining after today’s meeting.
o MMRC-V had 28 cases from 2015 but are now done.
o There was discussions on sustainability moving forward moving forward.
 It will be discussed a bit more during closed session.
 The group is also getting better at doing the review process.

Severe Maternal Morbidity

-

Stacie Geller gave a brief update on their plans for reviewing severe maternal
morbidity.

MMRC Recommendations

-

Discussion on how to distribute and implement the recommendations.
o Engage stakeholders
IDPH let the committee know that Cook county coroner is no longer doing autopsies
on pregnant women, unless something suspicious was going on.
o This has been in effect since 2013.
o The coroner does still do child deaths.
o If a person dies under the care of a hospital, an autopsy will not be done.
o The committee asked if there is something that can be drafted by the MMRC
that could be sent to hospitals to help collect information that may come from
the missing autopsies.
o Discussions about ways to potentially get autopsies. Is it possible to get results
from private autopsies?
o Action Item: Jerome Loew is to investigate ways to go about getting autopsies
done. If you want to be a part of the small group, e-mail Alexander Smith.

Closed Session

-

Closed to discuss the maternal death cases and individual resumes of potential new
members to the committee.

 Meeting Minutes of:
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH - PERINATAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Maternal Mortality Review Committee Meeting (MMRC)
June 13, 2018
Page 4 of 4

Debrief and Recommendations
Patient/Family

1. IDPH should support a public education campaign and discharge education/importance of
compliance to prenatal and postpartum women for awareness of the signs and symptoms
of cardiomyopathy and cardiac complications during pregnancy (1)
Provider

1. Promote connection with primary care as opposed to accessing all medical care
through the Emergency Department (1)
2. Provider education on how to educate families on the importance of obtaining consent
for an autopsy (1)
3. Provide education to providers and patients about mental health/antidepressant drugs
during pregnancy (1)
Facility

1. Increase education to providers and families about postpartum care, including appropriate
education to patients on extending birth control coverage. Mirror the language used by
ILOPQC for postpartum LARC education and awareness. (1)
2. Improve access to free/affordable contraception (1)
System

1. IDPH should encourage hospitals to support and participate in the Illinois Perinatal
Quality Collaborative (ILPQC) initiatives such as LARC and Mothers and Newborns
affected by Opioids (MNO). (1)
2. MCO’s in Illinois should improve case coordination, and HFS should have a plan in
place to hold MCO’s accountable for coordination of care including home visits during
pregnancy and WIC program utilization. (3)
3. Engage Medicare and Medicaid case management with high risk medical patients, ensure
that all eligible patients are enrolled in the appropriate programs. Have a plan in place to
hold MCO’s accountable for coordination of care for every woman with a high risk
pregnancy. (1)

Adjournment
-

Motion to adjourn the meeting from Stacie Geller with a second from Jerome Loew
with unanimous approval.

 