Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
March 19, 2019, 8:00 a.m.
Minutes for March 19, 2019
Commissioners present: Neville Reid, John Cooke, Juan Morado, Jr. and Cory Foster
Others present: Dr. McKinney, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger, Tom Strachan,
Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter), Jeanne Cotini, and Judy Salgado
Approval of Minutes
President Reid called the meeting to order and took the roll call of Commissioners.
Commissioner Morado moved and Commissioner Foster seconded that the minutes from last
meeting, January 15, 2019, be approved. The motion carried by voice vote. The approval for the
minutes from the November 20, 2018 meeting were not addressed.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided the following report:
2019 Priorities – Pushing to do a better job at leveraging the expertise and the relationships
held by board members and seeking for your assistance or counsel.
General Counsel Search – Search for General Counsel has begun. The firm Major, Lindsey
& Africa has been secured to conduct the search on our behalf.
PD30 Update – An update will be presented today regarding the status of the PD30
Amendment.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report and noted the following:
•
•
•

Cash is down compared to last fiscal year;
Receivables have increased;
An operating budget will be put together for 2020

The Commissioners then engaged in a discussion regarding accounts receivables.

 Old Business
President Reid introduced Chris Fahey, Manager of Operations and Planning. Mr. Fahey
provided presentation on background information for the Master Plan and Planned
Development 30 Amendment. President Reid introduced Benjamin Schuster, of Holland &
Knight. Mr. Schuster read resolution approving the Planned Development 30 Amendment.
Commissioner Foster moved that the resolution be approved, and Commissioner Cooke
seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote. President Reid asked Mr. Schuster to
the read the second resolution for the approval of 2019 Amendments to IMD 2016 Master
Plan. Mr. Schuster read resolution approving the 2019 Amendments to IMD 2016 Master Plan.
Commissioner Foster moved that the resolution be approved, and Commissioner Cooke
seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.

Commissioner Foster moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Morado and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 