Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN. Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Eleclkm Commisdoners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting
March 13, 2019, 9:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director [absent]
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager Human Resources
Joan T. Agnew, Deputy Counsel
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach

Amanda Robledo, Purchasing
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Rachel Brown, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Lora Chamberlain, Clean Count Cook County
Dan Sheehan, Clean Count Cook County
Judd Ryan, ES&S
Mauro Sivartd, resident
Carlin Thisi, cc12

Pete DeMay, resident

Clare Tobin, II. Ballot Integrity
Joyy Morris, City Bureau
Olivia Stovicek, City Bureau

Joyce Good, Clean Count Cook County
Zoe Chen, Resident

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 10:21 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

ML

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 8, 2019: Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 8, 2019.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900 * TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com • cboe@chicagoelections.net• @ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - March 13,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were
approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
B.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 22, 2019: Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 22, 2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were
approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
V.
Executive Director's Report[Executive Director Lance Gough was absent from the
meeting.]
A.
Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:
• Mr. Holiday congratulated the Board staff for the work they did for this latest
election. He specifically thanked Warehouse Manager Keith Carter and his staff,
Ron Boyd, Joan Agnew and Adam Lasker on the work with the 5% audit
conducted at the warehouse. Mr. Holiday also thanked Matt Lin and his staff on
their various election projects.
• The Board conducted a pilot program on Election Day of having a "roving
technician" checking on poiiing piaces in two selected wards. Geneva Morris did
a great job with this project.
• Judges of Election, Polling Places and Election Coordinators payrolls are
completed.

• All Equipment Supply Carriers have been returned to the warehouse.
• All ballots for the April election have been released to the printer. 41 Wards of
ballots have been delivered to the warehouse and the remaining 9 are expected
to be delivered today.
• Printing of ballots and poll-sheets is expected to be completed on March 16*^ with
deliveries by this Thursday.

• Chips for the Pre-election Logic and Accuracy testing (pre-LAT) are ready, and
testingis underway.
• All equipment for Early Voting at our "Supersite"(175 W. Washington) will be
delivered tomorrow. We will be prepared to open the Supersite for voting on
Friday, March 15®.
• Election Suppiy Carriers are being released on Friday so that the other Early
Voting sites will be ready to open by Monday, March 18®.
• We are testing iines at all sites to ensure communications are working well.

• The Judges Department is continuing to assign Judges of Election and Election
Coordinators.

• Poiiing Piaces are still being assigned. Commissioner Swain asked if there were
. any Poiiing Places that are not coming back. Communications Director Jim Alien
responded that there are a few, and Poiiing Places Supervisor Brandon Pickens
Is working on those.
• For consideration at a future meeting, the estimated cost for ballot printing for
both the February and April elections was short by approximately $82,000. Mr.
Holiday requested that the Board consider increasing the approved contract
amount with Lake County Press. General Counsel Lasker said that he would
place it on the Board's next agenda for consideration.
Page 2 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 13, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• The question was raised as to whether the proclamation date for the April
election would be moved up before the statutory deadline, as it was for the
February Election. Mr. Lasker said that it would not need to be moved up, as the
proclamation for the February election was moved up to accommodate any
contests and the ballot preparation for the April election.

• Approximately 50,000 Vote by Mail ballots were returned for the February
election. A little over 80% were returned, but some could not be accepted due to
signatures or for arriving too late. Commissioner Swain pointed out as the
number of Vote by Mail ballots increases, it would behoove us to let people know
that they cannot send their February ballots in for counting at the April election if
they had not returned it for February.
B.

Communications Director Jim Allen reported as follows:
• Mr. Allen pointed out the great job done by the various departments and
the staff.

• New records were set for Early Voting and for Vote by Mail for a
municipal election. The number of provisional ballots hit a new record low

(approximately 2,500, or 1/3 of past elections); same day registration and
e-poll books help.
• For a big city, our turnout is about 200% of that of some other big cities,
but it is still low.

• We have 7 fewer days between the municipal election and the runoff this
year than in 2015.
• Vote by Mail ballots may go out as early as tomorrow.

• We have approximately 24 polling place changes. We are going to do a
mailing before the election to those precincts.
• We have one Early Voting site change due to renovations at the Merlo
Library (44"^ Ward).
VI.

Old Business

A.
Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration; These items will
be reviewed after the April election.
B.
Electronic Poll Books: Judd Ryan of ES&S reported that everything went well
with the February election. Preparations are beginning for the April election. Pre-LAT wilt
begin at the warehouse today.
C.
Voting Equipment: we will revisit this after the April election.
D.
Legislation: General Counsel Lasker stated that we haven't seen the omnibus bill
yet.
VII.

New Business

A.

Reconsideration of apparent-conformity disqualification of the "Assessment

Limits" referendum in Precinct 38 of Ward 48.

Mr. Lasker announced this matter and asked if anyone was present regarding
this matter. No one responded.

The Board, under its authority to rule on apparent conformity matters, had
previously rejected a referenda petition for the 38th precinct of the 48th ward
based on the number of signatures submitted.

Page 3 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 13, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

The proponents had asked for a reconsideration of the Board's ruling. It had
been scheduled for reconsideration at an early Board meeting, but the
proponents asked that we reschedule the Item as they were unavailable to attend
that meeting; it was rescheduled to today. The parties were given notice that the
reconsideration was on today's agenda. As recently as yesterday afternoon Mr.
Lasker communicated with the proponents.
They are asking that the Board disregard the wording for the signature
requirement, which is based on "last gubernatorial election". The November 2018
was the election that the Board used. The proponents used the November 2014
election.

Mr. Lasker expressed that he would like more specificity in the statutes.
Commissioner Swain stated that he was concerned, and asked if such a
clarification could be added to legislation omnibus bill.

The Chair stated that we can't do anything about it now. Mr. Lasker affirmed that
ruling other than as the Board did would be violating the law.
Commissioner Swain moved to deny the request for reconsideration.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed by
unanimous vote of the Board and the request for reconsideration was denied.

B.

Approval of Amendment to Professional Service Agreement with Gary Rycyzyn.
This amendment would increase the compensation cap to $135,000. Ail other
terms of the agreement would remain the same.
Mr. Rycyzyn has been providing consulting services to the Board regarding
ballots, along with providing consulting services in relation to the Board's
anticipated procurement of new election equipment.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Amendment to the Professional
Service Agreement with Mr. Rycyzyn. Commissioner Kresse seconded the
motion. The Board voted unanimously to approve the motion and the
Amendment to the agreement between the Board and Gary Rycyzyn.

C.

Agreement with Arrow Messenger Service, Inc. for Driver and Transportation
Services, 2019 Elections.
Amanda Robledo of the Board's Purchasing Department and General Counsel
Lasker presented the Agreement to the Board.

This proposed agreement is for both the February 2019 and the April 2019
elections, with the combined estimated cost of $680,000.

The Board would be "piggy-backing" on the City of Chicago's agreement with
Arrow. Arrow is a City certified Woman Owned Business Enterprise(WBE). The
rates are set by the City's agreement.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the agreement with Arrow Messenger
Services for both the February and April Elections in the amount of $680,000.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a 3:0
vote of the Board.

Vill.

Legal Report
General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:
ward aldermanic race, and in the 34"* ward
aldermanic race, along with a lawsuit filed by Mr. Walls with regards to the City Clerk

• We do have election contests in the

Page 4 of5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 13, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

race. Mr. Lasker believes that the 6<^ ward challenge will be withdrawn, but is unsure
regarding the 34*^ ward challenge.
IX.

Financial Report
A.
Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook -2018 Appropriation
- 18-10 dated March 13,2019 in the amount of $839,444.90. Commissioner Kresse
moved to approve this item. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

X.

Public Comment: None.

XI.

Executive Session: None.

XII.
Adjoumment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next scheduled Regular
Board Meeting on March 26*^. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion by 3:0 vote of the Board. The meeting was adjourned at 10:43 a.m.

Submitted,

Commis^ner William J. Kresse
Secretary

Pages of5

 