 James @it? at 138th)?: Brenda 0055 Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3:330:53?? AM mm
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlo'wsk, 
Detroit, MiChigan 43226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Mg! Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole Room. 13??
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center. 2 Woodward Avenue. Detroit. Michigan 48226 on

THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the proposal of Fusco, Shaffer Pappas to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 13 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a PD (Planned Development) zoning classi?cation
where R3 (Low Density Residential) and B6 (General Services) zoning classi?cations currently exist on
one parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld Street. The location of the proposed rezoning is
speci?cally indicated on the accompanying map.

The change is being proposed to allow for the construction of a new building to provide services to the
homeless community. Speci?cally, the building is proposed to include 40 studio apartments, cafeteria,
gymnasium, library, classrooms, health clinic and outdoor shelter space.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R3 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

This district is designed as a low-density multi-family district. The regulations are designed to
promote and encourage town and terrace house development, courts, and garden apartments. It is
intended that this district be used primarily on local thoroughfares thereby encouraging a suitable
environment for family life. Among others, uses permitted by right include single and two-family
dwellings, town houses, multi-family dwellings, and community facilities necessary to serve a
residential district.

B6 - GENERAL SERVICES DISTRICT

This district provides for wholesaling, transport, food services, and similar activities essential to
the commerce and health of the City. Of?ce, retail, service, and other uses normally desiring to
locate in this type of district are also permitted.

PD - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly useful
in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord with the goals
and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the most general
category of land use, which are Residential, Retail/Service/Commercial,
Manufacturing and Industrial, and Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such
planned developments shall provide a desirable enviromnent for the uses proposed and shall not be
out of harmony with their general surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to
accomplish this by permitting ?exibility in overall development while ensuring adequate
safeguards and standards for public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and, where
applicable, encouraging historic preservation.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing and a?er
receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning Ordinance map
amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article 111, Division 3 of Chapter
61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent
you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing: Two Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan
48226 (email: Because it is possible that some who are affected by this proposal may
not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express
their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services at public
meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the Civil
Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313)224-4950, through the number 711, or email
criorn detroitmigov to schedule these services.

For additional information concerning this proposal or the scheduled hearing, please call
313-224-6225FOREST AVEGARFIELD STCANFIELD STWILLIS ST.
WI I II 7  it

 

Proposed Rezoning from R3 B6 to PD

