DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SPECIAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2019
3:30 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Maggie DeSantis
John George
Donele Wilkins
Pamela McClain
Ray Scott
Matthew Walters
Stephanie Washington

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Juan Gonzalez
Sonya Mays

OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Kenyetta Bridges (DEGC)
Paul Kako (DEGC)
Damon Jordan (DEGC)
Nick Allen (DEGC)
Ngozi Nwaesei (Lewis & Munday)
Donna Fontana (Fleishman Hillard)
Marc Brazeau (FCA US LLC)
Ben Monicelli (FCA US LLC)
Greg Rose (FCA US LLC)
Kai Bowman (Mayor’s Office)
Emery Matthews (Real Estate Interests)
Tom Wackerman (ASTI Environmental)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Sean O’Brien (Chemical Bank)
Elie Torgow (Sterling Group)
Danny Samson (Sterling Group)
Donnell White (Chemical Bank)

 MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY SPECIAL MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2019
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 3:30 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 3:36 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of May 2, 2019 as presented. The Board
took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Ms. DeSantis, DBRA Resolution Code 19-0502-254 was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Chemical Bank Headquarters Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Mr. Vosburg presented the Chemical Bank Headquarters Brownfield Redevelopment Plan to
Board members. Mr. Vosburg stated that the Chemical Bank Headquarters Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan had been previously presented to the DBRA Board for referral to the DBRA
Community Advisory Committee (DBRA-CAC) in January 2019 and is being presented to the
DBRA Board again because the Chemical Bank Headquarters Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
was not presented to the DBRA-CAC within 30 days and the Developer has changed for the
project.
Project Introduction
GPC Adams, LLC, a Sterling Group affiliate on behalf of Chemical Bank, is the project developer
(the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the demolition of the current ten-story building in order
to facilitate construction of Chemical Bank’s new headquarters. The building will be approximately
twenty stories tall and will include ground-level commercial space with ten stories of parking and
nine office stories. Chemical Bank will occupy six to seven stories within the building and plans to
expand into the remaining floors or lease to other office tenants. The ground floor is proposed to
house a bank branch and/or an additional retail tenant.
The total construction costs are estimated to be $71 million. The Developer is requesting
$37,096,150.00 in TIF reimbursement, however only $16,700,793.00 in TIF Reimbursement is
projected to be captured for the life of the Plan.

 There will be 380 temporary construction jobs and 250 FTE jobs. The 380 temporary construction
jobs are expected to be created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The 250 FTE jobs
may include the relocation of existing Chemical Bank employees to the City of Detroit.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of two (2) parcels located in Detroit’s Central
Business District, bounded by West Elizabeth Street to the North, Woodward Avenue to the East,
an alley to the South, and the property line of 44-48 West Adams to the West.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the
Property was is currently utilized for a commercial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to
be functionally obsolete and/or is adjacent and contiguous to a functionally obsolete property as
defined by Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible
activities” as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include pre-approved activities, demolition
and asbestos abatement, site preparation activities, infrastructure activities, and the preparation
and implementation of a brownfield plan and 381 work plan. The eligible activities and budgeted
costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the
Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan
and be completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a
Reimbursement Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Demolition
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities
4. Infrastructure Improvements
5. Site Preparation
6. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan
7. Cost Tracking Compliance
8. Contingency (15%)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
9. Authority Administrative Costs
10. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
11. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$5,000.00
$2,070,368.00
$121,550.00
$29,299,299.00
$709,783.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$4,830,150.00
$37,096,150.00
$2,575,372.00
$1,821,662.00
$0.00
$41,493,184.00

*Developer is only projecting to receive $16,700,493 in TIF Reimbursement

 The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for
reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by
the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of
Commercial Rehabilitation Act (CRA) PA 210 Tax Abatement.
Attached for your review and approval is a resolution authorizing the Chemical Bank
Headquarters Brownfield Plan for submittal to the Community Advisory Committee for
consideration and comment within 30 days of their receipt of the proposed Plan. In addition, it
authorizes the President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated
by him, as a representative of the DBRA, to conduct a public hearing in the area to which the
Proposed Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held jointly with any
public hearing conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
Ms. DeSantis asked what the Developer’s plans are to hire Detroit-based companies and Detroit
residents for the project. Mr. O’Brien stated that the Developer has held a meeting with D2D and
has been working with Wayne County. Ms. DeSantis asked what the D2D program is. Mr. Walters
stated that the D2D program is a program through the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation that
connects Detroit-based businesses with other Detroit-based businesses.
Ms. DeSantis asked if the Developer has moved forward with a construction company. Mr. O’Brien
stated that the Developer has selected The Colasanti Group which has an office in Detroit.
Ms. DeSantis asked if the project is subject to the City of Detroit Executive Orders. Mr. Walters
confirmed that the project is subject to the City of Detroit Executive Orders.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the resolution authorizing the Chemical Bank
Headquarters Brownfield Plan for submittal to the Community Advisory Committee. The Board
took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, DBRA Resolution Code 19-05265-02 was unanimously approved.
Second Amended and Restated 3750 & 3800 Woodward Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Ms. Kanalos presented the Second Amended and Restated 3750 & 3800 Woodward Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan to Board members.
Project Introduction
3750 Woodward Avenue, LLC, is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan Amendment
which includes two parcels located at 3750 and 3800 Woodward Avenue. The Plan Amendment
includes the completed rehabilitation of a 12-story structure for residential and commercial use
(The Plaza), located on the parcel with the address 3800 Woodward Avenue. No additional
redevelopment is anticipated for this parcel.
The project to be completed at 3750 Woodward Avenue will include the construction of a hotel,
housing units targeted toward students, multi-family housing, 100,000 square feet of commercial
space, public space and a 700-space parking structure. The hotel will include approximately 225
rooms. The residential component will include 180 multi-family units of which 36 will be affordable,

 198 housing units targeted toward students, and 60 condominiums. It is anticipated that 1,300
temporary construction jobs and 400 permanent FTE jobs will be created as a result of this project.
Total investment is estimated to be $320M. The developer is seeking $58M in tax increment
financing (TIF) reimbursement for eligible activities under the Plan Amendment.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of two (2) parcels located at 3750 and 3800
Woodward Avenue generally East Alexandrine Street to the north, John R Road to the east, Mack
Avenue to the south and Woodward Avenue to west in Detroit’s Midtown district.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the
Property was is currently utilized for a commercial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property subject to the Plan
Amendment is determined to be a facility in accordance to Part 201 of Act 451.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible
activities” as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include demolition, lead and asbestos
abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation, baseline environmental assessment,
due care activities, additional response activities and brownfield plan and work plan preparation
and implementation. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the
development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not
responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are
estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a
Reimbursement Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF

 The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for
reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by
the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives including a commercial rehabilitation act
abatement (PA 210) and a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ).
Attached for your review and approval is a resolution authorizing the Second Amended and
Restated 3800 Woodward Brownfield Plan for submittal to the Community Advisory Committee
for consideration and comment within 30 days of their receipt of the proposed Plan. In addition,
it authorizes the President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated
by him, as a representative of the DBRA, to conduct a public hearing in the area to which the
Proposed Plan Amendment applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held
jointly with any public hearing conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
Mr. Walters stated that the project is currently completing the Community Benefits Ordinance
(CBO) process.
Ms. DeSantis asked why the plan is being amended a second time. Mr. Matthews stated that the
project differs from what was previously contemplated for the site, there are different owners and
a different developer, and the financing has changed.
Ms. Wilkins asked what area around the project was included in the CBO process. Mr. Matthews
stated that the impact area as set forth in the ordinance was used for the project but the developer

 had conducted additional outreach in the community prior to the impact area being established
for the CBO process. Mr. Walters added that Midtown Detroit Inc. also had community meetings
before the project started the CBO process and that the impact area for the CBO process for the
project is bounded by Second Street to the West, I-75 to the East, Erskine to the South and
Warren Avenue to the North.
Ms. DeSantis asked if there are any commercial prospects for the project. Mr. Matthews stated
that there is approximately 80,000 square feet of retail space planned, there is not currently any
planned office space, and that the more traditional retail spaces will be located at the base of the
planned towers along the property.
Ms. Wilkins asked if the developer has any retail tenants that it is trying to attract. Mr. Matthews
stated that the developer would like to have a grocery store as a retail tenant and other
convenience retailers for the residents of the development and other residents in the area.
Mr. George asked if the land to be used for the project is currently vacant. Mr. Matthews confirmed
that the land for the project is currently vacant.
Ms. DeSantis asked for more detail on the financing for the project. Mr. Matthews stated that
about 30% of the financing is owners’ equity including the land contribution and cash, an incentive
component which includes the brownfield TIF, tax abatements, and a Michigan Business Tax
Credit. Mr. Matthews stated that the underground parking needs to be completed before any of
the vertical structures can begin construction, and that the hotel tower will also include residential
units and will be constructed first.
Ms. DeSantis asked who will manage the hotel component of the project. Mr. Matthews stated
that the hotel operator cannot be announced yet, but that that it is a well-known hotel operator.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the resolution authorizing the Second Amended and
Restated 3750 & 3800 Woodward Brownfield Plan for submittal to the Community Advisory
Committee. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-05249-05 was unanimously approved.
Ashton Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Assignment and Assumption Agreement and
Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement
Mr. Vosburg presented the Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Amended and Restated
Reimbursement Agreement for the Ashton Brownfield Plan to the DBRA Board.
On October 18, 2017, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) Board
of Directors recommended approval to Detroit City Council of the Brownfield Plan for the Ashton
Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) which was subsequently approved by Detroit City Council on
November 21, 2017. A Reimbursement Agreement (the “Agreement”) was approved by the DBRA
on December 13, 2017.
On April 17, 2019 the DBRA reaffirmed its support for a newly configured project to create a 6story mixed-use development with ground floor commercial retail space, an estimated 156 room
hotel with amenities, and approximately 151 integrated parking spaces, but with the same Eligible

 Activities and TIF reimbursement amount that was in the original Brownfield Plan and a project
that was still in compliance with the DBRA Guidelines.
After the April 17, 2019 DBRA Board Meeting, it was brought to the DBRA’s attention that the
legal entity for the development has changed from 600 Ventures, LLC to 600 Ventures II, LLC
due to a change in ownership structure resulting from the hotel operator participating as an
investor in the project. As a result, an Assignment and Assumption Agreement, as well as an
Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement, is needed so that 600 Ventures II, LLC can
use the Brownfield TIF incentive.
Mr. George asked if there is anything else about the project changing aside from the entity name
for the Developer. Mr. Vosburg stated that the ownership structure for the project has changed,
which is why the entity name has changed.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the resolution approving the Assignment and
Assumption Agreement and the Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement for the
Ashton Brownfield Redevelopment Plan. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. DeSantis, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-05197-08 was unanimously approved.
Industrial Land Assembly Project: Authorization to Enter into Additional Purchase
Transactions
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges presented the Authorization to Enter into Additional Purchase
Transactions to the Board.
As the Board is aware, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit
(the “City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City (the
“MOU”) relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant (“JNAP”), located
at Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs.

In order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately 200 acres of market-ready
land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Project-related activities such as employee
parking, trailer marshalling, and finished vehicle storage. Thus, in the MOU, DBRA and the City
agreed, among other things, to execute binding agreements to deliver title to sufficient acreage
adjacent to or in close proximity to the Project site to meet FCA’s expansion needs. The DBRA
Board approved an initial series of land transactions for the Project on April 17, 2019 (DBRA 1904-262-12).
To date, DBRA and/or the City have negotiated agreements for the acquisition of nearly 215 acres
of property near the Project site, as shown on Exhibit A hereto. Where possible, the City and
DBRA have attempted to leverage existing publicly-owned land assets, including land owned or

 controlled by The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (the “EDC”) and the
Detroit Land Bank Authority, as full or partial consideration for the property required for the Project.
DBRA staff has negotiated a second set of land transactions to acquire additional parcels required
for the Project, the parties and key terms of which are described on Exhibits B thru D. Any cash
consideration and diligence and other acquisition costs will be payable from funds made available
by the City to the DBRA.
DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute purchase agreements and/or
other appropriate documentation relating to the transactions described on described on Exhibits
B thru D in support of the Project.
A resolution is attached for the Board’s consideration.
Ms. DeSantis asked if the parcel located at 12165 Mack will be acquired by the City of Detroit or
the DBRA for use by FCA. Ms. Bridges stated that the parcel located at 12165 Mack will not be
acquired as part of the Project. Ms. DeSantis asked why that parcel is not going to be acquired
as part of the Project so that environmental issues be remediated. Ms. Navin stated that the
adjacent parcels were more desirable for their location and the intended future use of employee
parking for FCA employees. Ms. DeSantis stated that the current owners should be issued blight
tickets from the City of Detroit and the DBRA and the City of Detroit should advocate for the parcel
to be cleaned up and remediated to the benefit of the community. Mr. Scott stated that he would
look into the blight issues with the parcel.
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges responded to Board member questions regarding details of the land
swap, how property purchase prices were determined and how prices relate to the land swap,
status of property contamination, the relocation of parking for State of Michigan employees,
whether the land that is being included in land swaps are vacant parcels or if there are existing
structures, and if occupied homes would ever be included in future deals on parcels that are part
of land options that are being proposed.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Authorization to Enter into Additional Purchase
Transactions. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. DeSantis, seconded by Ms. Washington, DBRA Resolution Code 1905-262-20 was approved. Ms. Wilkins opposed.
Industrial Land Assembly Project: Development Agreement with FCA USA, LLC
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges presented the Development Agreement with FCA USA, LLC to the
Board.
As the Board is aware, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit
(the “City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City (the
“MOU”) relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and

 •

Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant, located at
Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs.

As contemplated by the MOU, representatives of FCA, DBRA and the City have negotiated the
terms of a development agreement (the “Development Agreement”), a summary of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit A. Pursuant to the Development Agreement, the DBRA will agree to
assemble and prepare certain land for FCA’s use consistent with Exhibit B attached hereto and
FCA will agree to construct the Mack Engine Plan, a development plan of which is attached hereto
as Exhibit C.
DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute the Development Agreement,
consistent with the terms of Exhibits A, B and C.
A resolution is attached for the Board’s consideration.
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges responded to Board member questions regarding details of the
Development Agreement including the incentives being requested for the Project from the City of
Detroit and from the State of Michigan and the projected net benefit of the Project for the City of
Detroit and the State of Michigan.
Ms. Wilkins asked if there are any City of Detroit departments or agencies that have investigated
what the environmental and health impacts will be of the Project. Mr. Rose stated that FCA is now
evaluating how it will handle and sort waste, FCA will enter into an agreement with the City of
Detroit regarding storm water management, FCA has been working with the State of Michigan
regarding emissions from its facilities, and as a result of the Community Benefits Ordinance
Process the air permit that FCA has negotiated with the State of Michigan will include an additional
monitoring requirement and community benefit that will be determined in the next six months
through discussions with the Neighborhood Advisory Council.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Development Agreement with FCA USA, LLC. The
Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-05262-18 was unanimously approved.
Industrial Land Assembly Project: Funding and Land Transfer Agreement between City
and DBRA
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges presented the Funding and Land Transfer Agreement between City
and DBRA to the Board.
As the Board is aware, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit
(the “City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City (the
“MOU”) relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant, located at
Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs.

 In order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately 200 acres of market-ready
land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Project-related activities such as employee
parking, trailer marshalling, and finished vehicle storage.
As contemplated by the MOU, to date, DBRA and/or the City have negotiated agreements for the
acquisition of nearly 215 acres of property near the Project site, as shown on Exhibit A hereto,
of which Sites 1, 8, 7A2 and 7C (the “City Properties”) are owned by the City. In order to facilitate
the transfer of the City Properties to DBRA and, following the completion of site preparation
activities thereon, to FCA, representatives from the City and DBRA have negotiated a Land
Transfer Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “LTA”), the terms
of which are summarized below:
•
•
•
•

•

City to convey City Properties (including adjacent vacated rights of way) to DBRA as
needed for the Project.
Purchase price is an amount up to Nine Hundred Sixty-Five Thousand Ninety-Three and
00/100 Dollars ($965,093.00), based on the land value assigned to each parcel by the City
of Detroit Assessor as reflected in the 2018 City property tax records.
Purchase price to be paid under a promissory note payable solely from tax increment
revenues captured by the DBRA (“TIR”) pursuant to a brownfield redevelopment plan and
Act 381 Work Plan relating to a portion of the Project.
Payment of TIR are subordinate to: (i) the repayment of obligations of the DBRA to the
City and the Michigan Strategic Fund (“MSF”) on account of loans anticipated to be made
by the City and MSF to DBRA for the Projects and (ii) disbursements permitted by Act 381
and/or applicable DBRA or MSF guidelines for administrative fees, state and/or local
revolving fund contributions, and other similar purposes.
In the event the TIR remaining after the repayment of the above referenced payment
obligations and permitted disbursements are not sufficient to pay the purchase price in
full, the promissory note shall be non-recourse to the DBRA.

In addition, in order to fund the DBRA’s land assembly and site preparation activities for the
Project, DBRA staff recommends the DBRA accept the following sources of funds from the City
(the “City Funding”) and the MSF (the “MSF Funding”):
City Funding:
• Thirty-Three Million and Ninety Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($33,090,000.00) for land
assembly and site preparation activities
• Twenty Million and 00/100 Dollars ($20,000,000.00) for land assembly contingency
• Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($7,500,000.00) non-recourse
loan payable solely from TIR over for a period not to exceed thirty (30) years, at a rate of
interest not less than one percent (1%) per annum on the outstanding amount thereof (the
“City Loan”), expected to be one and sixteen one-hundredths percent (1.16%).
MSF Funding:
• Grant of Thirty-Five Million 00/100 Dollars ($35,000,000.00) generally restricted to site
preparation activities and soft costs, with limited flexibility to use portions on land
acquisition with MSF approval; to be disbursed in two tranches of Fifteen Million and
00/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00) and a third tranche of Five Million and 00/100 Dollars
($5,000,000.00), based on the satisfaction of certain milestones related to the commitment
and expenditure of funds.

 Twenty Million and 00/100 Dollars ($20,000,000.00) non-recourse loan payable solely
from TIR over for a period not to exceed thirty (30) years, at a rate of interest expected to
be one and sixteen one-hundredths percent (1.16%), which will be subordinate to the City
Loan.

•

In addition, the Board may recall that it previously approved the acceptance of the below funding
from the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes & Environment (the “EGLE
Funding”), which will be used in support of the Project:
•

Grant of Two Million 00/100 Dollars ($2,000,000.00) restricted to site preparation
activities, to be disbursed in two tranches of One Million and 00/100 Dollars
($1,000,000.00).

DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute the LTA, substantially in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and to negotiate and appropriate funding and/or loan
agreements, as appropriate, for the acceptance of the City Funding and the MSF Funding.
A resolution is attached for the Board’s consideration.
Ms. Navin and Ms. Bridges responded to Board member questions regarding the source of some
financing from the City of Detroit.
Ms. Wilkins requested that the DBRA Board be provided a firm number on the number of jobs
that will be available to Detroit residents as a result of the Project.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Funding and Land Transfer Agreement between
City and DBRA. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-05262-19 was approved. Ms. Wilkins abstained.
ADMINISTRATIVE
None.
OTHER
Ms. DeSantis requested an update be provided at the next DBRA meeting regarding the parcel
located at 12165 Mack Avenue and the blight issues at the property.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters adjourned the meeting at 5:32pm.

 CODE DBRA 19-05-02-254
APPROVAL OF MINUTES MAY 2, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the special meeting of May 2, 2019 are hereby approved
and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are
hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority.

May 8, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-05-265-02
CHEMICAL BANK HEADQUARTERS BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN – TRANSMITTAL OF
BROWNFIELD PLAN TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996 (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City of Detroit (the
“City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, under the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA requires the
DBRA, prior to the approval of a brownfield plan, submit the proposed brownfield plan to the Community
Advisory Committee for consideration and comment and solicit comments by publication of notice that the
proposed brownfield plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a
public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority acknowledges receipt of the
proposed Brownfield Plan for the Chemical Bank Headquarters Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the
“Proposed Plan”) and authorizes and directs the Chairperson to cause the Proposed Plan to be transmitted
to the Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment within 30 days of their receipt of the
Proposed Plan.
2.
The President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated by
him, as a representative of the DBRA, shall conduct a public hearing in the area to which the Proposed
Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing
conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
3.
The Chairperson is authorized and directed to cause there to be published notice that the
Proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and of the public hearing to be
held pursuant to this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or Authorized Agent
of the DBRA in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolution except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolution, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 8, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-05-197-08
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED 3800 WOODWARD BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN –
TRANSMITTAL OF BROWNFIELD PLAN TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996 (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City of Detroit (the
“City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, under the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA requires the
DBRA, prior to the approval of a brownfield plan, submit the proposed brownfield plan to the Community
Advisory Committee for consideration and comment and solicit comments by publication of notice that the
proposed brownfield plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a
public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority acknowledges receipt of the
proposed Brownfield Plan for the Second Amended and Restated 3800 Woodward Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan (the “Proposed Plan”) and authorizes and directs the Chairperson to cause the
Proposed Plan to be transmitted to the Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment
within 30 days of their receipt of the Proposed Plan.
2.
The President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated by
him, as a representative of the DBRA, shall conduct a public hearing in the area to which the Proposed
Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing
conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
3.
The Chairperson is authorized and directed to cause there to be published notice that the
Proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and of the public hearing to be
held pursuant to this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or Authorized Agent
of the DBRA in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolution except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolution, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
May 8, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-05-249-05
ASHTON BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN: ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
AGREEMENT; AND AMENDED AND RESTATED REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2017, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
(the “DBRA”) Board of Directors adopted a resolution recommending approval by the Detroit City
Council of the Brownfield Plan for the Ashton Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) being
undertaken by 600 Ventures, LLC (the “Developer”); and
WHEREAS, on November 21, 2017, the Detroit City Council approved the Plan; and
and

WHEREAS, on December 13, 2017, the DBRA approved the Reimbursement Agreement;

WHEREAS, on April 17, 2019, the DBRA reaffirmed their support for a New Project due
to changes in market conditions; and
WHEREAS, the New Project has resulted in the assignment of the development from 600
Ventures, LLC to 600 Ventures II, LLC resulting in the need for an Assignment and Assumption
Agreement, as well as an Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement (the “Agreements”)
from 600 Ventures, LLC to 600 Ventures II, LLC; and
WHEREAS, the Agreements have been drafted, approved as to form by DBRA legal
counsel; and
WHEREAS, all material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole discretion, to the
project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall be consistent with the
overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the purposes of
Act 381, as amended.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the DBRA Board of Directors as follows:
1.

The Agreements, in substantially the form attached to this Resolution as Exhibits
A and B, are hereby approved, with such necessary or desirable modifications
additions, deletions or completions as are approved by DBRA legal counsel and
the Officers or designated Authorized Agents of the DBRA executing the
Agreement.

2.

Any two Officers or designated Authorized Agents or one Officer and one
designated Authorized Agent of the DBRA are authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Agreement.

 3.

All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings in conflict herewith
shall be and the same hereby are repealed insofar as such conflict arises.

4.

This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
May 8, 2019

 EXHIBIT A

Assignment and Assumption Agreement

ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this “Assignment”) is made and
entered into as of May ____, 2019, by and between 600 VENTURES, LLC, a Michigan limited liability
company (“Assignor”), 600 VENTURES II, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company (“Assignee”) and,
solely for the purpose of acknowledging and approving the assignment and assumption contemplated
herein, the CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a Michigan
public body corporate (the “DBRA”).
RECITALS
A.
On October 18, 2017, DBRA adopted and on November 21, 2017, the Detroit City Council
approved a brownfield plan identified as the Brownfield Plan for the Ashton Redevelopment Project (the
“Plan”), which contemplated the development of the Subject Property (as defined in the Plan) by Assignor
in accordance with the Plan (the “Project”).
B.
In accordance with the Plan, Assignor and DBRA entered into that certain Reimbursement
Agreement executed on February 23, 2018, attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Reimbursement
Agreement”).
C.
Due to changes to the Project as a result of financing and marketing conditions and changes
to the principals managing the Project, Assignee is currently the owner of the Subject Property.
D.
Assignee shall also be the “Developer” of the Project and shall enter into all contracts
related to the construction and rehabilitation of the Project.
E.
As a result, Assignee wishes to acquire any and all rights of Assignor under the
Reimbursement Agreement and the Plan (collectively, the “Brownfield Documents”).
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of $1.00 and other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree
as follows:

(1) Assignor hereby assigns, transfers and sets over to Assignee, all of Assignor’s
right, title and interest in and to the Brownfield Documents, and Assignee hereby accepts
said assignment of the Brownfield Documents.
(2)
Assignee hereby accepts this Assignment and assumes and agrees to be bound by and to perform,
pay, discharge, observe and comply with, as applicable, all of the covenants, liabilities, duties, debts,
obligations and responsibilities of Assignor pursuant to the Brownfield Documents assigned by this
Assignment which arise, accrue or are to be performed on or after the date hereof.
(3)
Assignor has executed this Assignment and Assignee has accepted this Assignment on an “AS IS”
basis, without any representation or warranty of whatsoever nature, express or implied by Assignor or
DBRA.
(4)
Assignee hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Assignor, its agents, officers and
employees from any claims, damages, liabilities, losses and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) arising out
of or relating to the Brownfield Documents, for any act or omission having, or claiming to have occurred
after the date of this Assignment. Assignor shall indemnify and hold harmless Assignee, its directors,
officers, and employees from any claims arising from or relating to the Brownfield Documents for any act

 or omission of Assignor, having, or claiming to have, occurred before the date of this Assignment. The
obligations of Assignor and Assignee under this paragraph 4 shall survive Closing.
(5)
By executing this Assignment, the Assignee hereby acknowledge and agree that is not liable for
contamination that is known or may be found on the Subject Property and, with respect to the Subject
Property, is not a party liable under section 21026 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act, 1994 PA 451, MCL 324.20126.
(6)
All notices, payments or communications required by the Reimbursement Agreement to be given
to or by Assignee shall be sufficiently given and shall be deemed delivered when personally served or when
mailed by express courier or registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
addressed to the Assignee at the address listed below:
If to Assignee: 600 Ventures II, LLC
535 Griswold Street, Suite 1410
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: (313) 263-3655
Attention: Eric Means
(7)
This Assignment constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and integrates all of the terms and
conditions mentioned herein or incidental hereto and supersedes all negotiations or previous agreements
between the parties with respect to all or any part of the subject matter hereof. This Assignment shall be
binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
(8)
This Assignment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which counterpart shall
for all purposes be deemed to be an original, but all of which counterparts shall together constitute but one
and the same agreement. Signature pages bearing facsimile or electronic (via e-mail) signatures shall be
effective for purposes of binding the parties to this Assignment.
(9)
This Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with Michigan law and shall be
subject to interpretation and enforcement only in Michigan courts whether federal or state.
(10)
Assignor and Assignee shall execute and deliver to the other any further instruments of conveyance,
sale, assignment or transfer as may be reasonably necessary to effect the purposes of this Assignment.
(11)
This Assignment may only be modified, altered, amended, or terminated by an agreement in writing
executed by the parties.
(12)
If any term, covenant or condition of this Assignment shall be held to be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect, this Assignment shall be construed without such provision
(13)
The parties, with the assistance of their respective legal counsel, have negotiated together to reach
the terms of this Assignment, participated in the drafting of this Assignment and acknowledge that this
Assignment is the product of the joint effort of the parties. In no event shall the terms of this Assignment
be construed more strictly against one party than the other party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Assignment and Assumption Agreement
as of the day and year first above written.

 ASSIGNOR:
600 VENTURES, LLC,
a Michigan limited liability company
By:
Name: __________________________
Title: ____________________________

ASSIGNEE:
600 VENTURES II, LLC,
a Michigan limited liability company
By:
Name: __________________________
Title: ____________________________

FOR THE SOLE PURPOSE OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND APPROVAL ONLY:
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
a Michigan public body corporate
By: _______________________________
Its: Authorized Agent
and
By: _______________________________
Its: Authorized Agent
APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY:
Lewis & Munday, a Professional Corporation
Counsel to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
By:

  
   

DBRA

0' Enowunim RinivuopuENT 

DETROIT
500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

 

EXHIBIT A

REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT

 

SEE ATTACHED DOCUMENT

EXHIBIT 

Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement

AMENDED AND RESTATED REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
(Ashton Redevelopment Project)
This Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and
entered into as of ________________, 2019 by and between 600 VENTURES II, LLC, a
Michigan limited liability company (hereinafter referred to as the “Developer”), and the City of
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan municipal corporation (hereinafter
referred to as the “DBRA”).
RECITALS:
Developer intends to develop in accordance with the Brownfield Plan (as that term is
defined below) approximately 1.49 acres of land situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County,
Michigan (the “City”), as more particularly described on the attached Exhibit A and, together with
personal property located thereon, is hereinafter referred to as the “Subject Property.”
The DBRA has been created under Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996, as amended,
(“Act 381”) to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas through the
implementation of brownfield plans for certain eligible property under Act 381.
To induce and facilitate the proposed redevelopment of the Subject Property as more
particularly described in the Development Agreement (defined herein) (the “Project”), on October
18, 2017, the DBRA adopted and on November 21, 2017 the City Council approved the Brownfield
Plan for the Ashton Redevelopment Project (the “Plan” or “Brownfield Plan”) for the Subject
Property, under which the Developer may receive, subject to this Agreement, the benefit of
reimbursement from Tax Increment Revenues (the term “Tax Increment Revenues” shall have the
meaning ascribed to this term in Section 2(ss) of the Act 381) for the cost of Eligible Activities
undertaken by the Developer on the Subject Property.
600 Ventures, LLC, the original developer identified in the Plan, and DBRA entered into
that certain Reimbursement Agreement, which was fully executed by the parties on February 23,
2018 (the “Original Reimbursement Agreement”); however, the Original Reimbursement
Agreement neglected to reference the payment of interest as approved by the Plan and 600
Ventures, LLC subsequently assigned the Original Reimbursement Agreement to the Developer as
a result of changes to the Project and changes to the principals managing the Project.
The DBRA and the Developer desire to establish the terms and conditions upon which the
DBRA shall utilize Tax Increment Revenues captured pursuant to the Plan to reimburse the
Developer for the costs of Eligible Activities undertaken by the Developer. This Agreement shall
amend, restate and replace the Original Reimbursement Agreement in its entirety.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.
Definitions.
Capitalized terms shall have those definitions provided under Act
381 unless otherwise provided by this Agreement or unless inconsistent with the context in which
the term is used. However, notwithstanding the definitions provided under Act 381, for purposes
of this Agreement; (i) Eligible Activities shall also be considered to include the Plan and any work
plan(s) prepared for the Subject Property; (ii) the cost of Eligible Activities shall include the cost
of preparing the Plan and any work plan(s); and (iii) Tax Increment Revenues shall only mean and

 include such Tax Increment Revenues generated from the sources specified in Section 2 hereof and
within the limitations of Section 2(c).

2.

Sources and Uses of Tax Increment Revenues.

(a)
The following Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the levies of ad valorem
taxes and Specific Taxes upon the Subject Property that are eligible for capture by the DBRA under
Act 381, will comprise the sources of Tax Increment Revenues available to DBRA for purposes of
the Plan and to make the reimbursement payments required under this Agreement:
(i)
Subject to the approval of the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality (“MDEQ”) and/or the Michigan Strategic Fund (“MSF”) of a work plan, where
required under Act 381, for the Eligible Activities to be conducted on the Subject Property
(the “MDEQ Work Plan” or the “MSF Work Plan”), taxes levied by the State of Michigan
pursuant to the State Education Tax.
(ii)
Subject to the approval of a MDEQ Work Plan or the MSF Work Plan,
where required under Act 381, levies of the School District of the City of Detroit (the
“Detroit School District”).
(iii)
Levies of the City of Detroit, Wayne County and other taxing jurisdictions
that levy ad valorem or Specific Taxes that are considered Local Taxes under Act 381.
(b)
The DBRA shall not be required by this Agreement to use Tax Increment Revenues
attributable to the levies by the State of Michigan of the State Education Tax or by the Detroit
School District for use other than reimbursement payments to the Developer for Eligible Activities
that are part of an approved MDEQ Work Plan or MSF Work Plan, or for Eligible Activities under
Act 381 that are permitted to be reimbursed without MDEQ or MSF approval of a work plan.
However, this Agreement shall not prohibit DBRA, in its sole discretion, from capturing or using
Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the Subject Property for any purpose authorized by Act
381, including, but not limited to, the cost of preparing the MDEQ Work Plan and MSF Work Plan,
the cost of the review of the MDEQ Work Plan by MDEQ, the cost of the review of the MSF Work
Plan by MSF, the payment of interest, payment to the state brownfield redevelopment fund, and
funding of a local brownfield revolving fund.
(c)
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the proposed use
of Tax Increment Revenues derived from Taxes Levied for School Operating Purposes (as defined
in Act 381) on the Subject Property (the “School Taxes”), is not permitted by law or is denied in
whole or in part by MDEQ or MSF, the DBRA may approve the use of a combination of Tax
Increment Revenues derived from Local Taxes on the Subject Property and the approved portion
of School Taxes, if any, to make reimbursement payments under this Agreement, so long as the
total amount of such Local Taxes is not greater than the amount of Local Taxes which would have
been used for such reimbursement, if the total amount of School Taxes had been approved by
MDEQ or MSF, as the case may be. The DBRA shall not be obligated to increase the portion of
Local Taxes to be used for reimbursement of Eligible Activities to offset any reduction of available
School Taxes made by the MDEQ or MSF. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Agreement, it is understood that if the Subject Property is located within the Downtown
Development Authority (DDA) District, the Developer will only be able to capture tax increment
revenue derived from “taxes levied for school operating purposes” (as defined by Section 2(uu) of

 Act 381) during the life of the Plan and, during the life of the Plan, the DDA will retain the right
to capture all Local Taxes, except for Regional Educational Service Agency (RESA), Wayne
County Operating (Winter), Wayne County Jail, and Wayne County Parks, which will be captured
by the DBRA to cover its administrative fees.
d)
Unless otherwise agreed upon by the interested parties and subject to the
assignment of this Agreement, the capture of Tax Increment Revenues will continue to accrue to
the benefit of the Developer.
e)
The parties acknowledge and agree that DBRA shall not be required or obligated
to capture any School Taxes in connection with the Plan or this Agreement unless a MDEQ Work
Plan or MSF Work Plan is approved by the MDEQ and MSF, respectively.
3.

Determination of Eligible Activities Qualified for Reimbursement.

(a)
All costs of Eligible Activities attributable to the Subject Property for which the
Developer seeks reimbursement from Tax Increment Revenues shall satisfy each of the following
applicable qualifications:
(i)

The Eligible Activity is included in the Plan, or in any amendment thereto.

(ii)
Subject to clause (iii) below, the cost of the Eligible Activity is included
in the Plan, or any amendment or supplement thereto, and the Eligible Activity is
conducted in accordance with the terms of the approved MDEQ Work Plan or the
approved MSF Work Plan (where applicable or required), the Plan, this Agreement,
the Development Agreement(s) relating to the Project (the “Development
Agreement”), if any, and all applicable local, state and federal laws, regulations, rules,
ordinances, and executive orders.
(iii)
The actual costs submitted for reimbursement by the Developer for
Eligible Activities (the “Total Costs”), shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the total
costs of Eligible Activities set forth in the Plan.
(iv)
The Eligible Activity has not occurred on or before the effective date of
approval of the Plan by the City Council, November 21, 2017 (the “Effective Date”),
unless expressly permitted by Act 381 and approved as an element of the Plan.
(v)
For any Eligible Activity that (aa) occurs after the Effective Date, or that
is incurred on or before the Effective Date and is permitted by Act 381 and approved
as an element of the Plan and (bb) is qualified as an Eligible Activity under Act 381:
(1)
The Eligible Activity and the cost of such Eligible Activity are
included in an approved MDEQ Work Plan or an approved MSF Work Plan,
if so required, or
(2)
If the cost of such Eligible Activity is pending approval or
ineligible to be approved by MDEQ or MSF or if MDEQ or MSF determines
that it will not approve the cost of such Eligible Activity, or if approval by the
MDEQ or MSF of a work plan is not required for the Eligible Activity under
Act 381, the Eligible Activity and the cost of such Eligible Activity may be
approved for reimbursement from Local Taxes by the DBRA in accordance

 with Section 2 of the “City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Guidelines for Brownfield Plan Proposals” (the “DBRA Guidelines”) and
Section 2(c) hereof.
(vi)
The cost of the Eligible Activity is payable from Tax Increment Revenues
under Act 381; provided, however, that no costs shall be payable from “taxes levied
for school operating purposes,” as defined in Act 381 unless such cost is, if required
under Act 381, included in an approved MDEQ Work Plan or an approved MSF Work
Plan.
(b)
Developer understands and agrees that any reimbursement by or on behalf of the
DBRA of any expenses for approved activities shall be only for “Eligible Activities” as defined in
Act 381 and described in the Plan or for which reimbursement is authorized under this Agreement.
It is further understood and agreed that any reimbursement to or on behalf of Developer
contemplated by this Agreement shall only occur to the extent that Tax Increment Revenues are
generated from the Subject Property and those Tax Increment Revenues or other revenue is
available under Act 381 and this Agreement for the making of reimbursements to the Developer.
(c)
The Developer agrees to pay, subject to reimbursement if included in the Plan, or
reimbursable from Tax Increment Revenues as provided in Section 1.B and 2 of the DBRA
Guidelines, all costs of preparing the MDEQ Work Plan and MSF Work Plan.
(d)
Developer shall copy or provide DBRA with all correspondence and materials or
documents provided to MDEQ and/or MSF that are related to the Subject Property or Eligible
Activities on the Subject Property.
(e)
Developer understands and agrees that before any reimbursement by, or on behalf
of, the DBRA of any expenses for Eligible Activities may occur, DBRA must receive written
confirmation from the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department of the City (“CRIO”)
confirming the Developer’s compliance with any applicable City executive orders, including, but
not limited to, City Executive Order 2016-1. For purposes of satisfying the requirement set forth
in this Section 3(e), DBRA acknowledges and agrees that DBRA’s receipt of either a conditional
or unconditional clearance letter from CRIO shall satisfy this requirement.
4.

DBRA Reimbursement Payments to Developer.

(a)
From time to time, but not more frequently than quarterly without approval of the
DBRA, Developer may submit to the DBRA, prior to completion of all Eligible Activities included
in the Plan, a Certification for Reimbursement seeking reimbursement of costs paid or incurred by
Developer to complete certain Eligible Activities that are eligible for reimbursement pursuant to
this Agreement and the Plan. Such certification shall include a narrative of the approved activities
performed certifying that such activities have been completed in the manner and in compliance
with the terms of the Plan and the Plan’s supporting documents, that such activities qualify for
reimbursement under this Agreement, a representation and warranty of the Developer that all
activities for which reimbursement is sought qualify as Eligible Activities under Act 381 and this
Agreement, copies of all documents or reports for whose preparation payment is requested, a copy
of invoices for the work described in such certification, any substantiating documentation that is
reasonably requested by the DBRA, and the sworn statement described in Section 10(a)(v)
(collectively, the “Submission”). Furthermore, none of the costs for which reimbursement is
requested shall represent costs that: (i) have been paid for with a grant or loan that has been
forgiven; or (ii) are costs for which a credit was received by the Developer.

 (b)
Within sixty (60) days of its receipt of such certification and supporting
documentation, the DBRA shall complete its review of the Submission to confirm that such
activities qualify for reimbursement under this Agreement and the Plan and shall advise Developer
in writing (“Written Determination”) of its confirmation, or if any activities do not so qualify, the
specific reasons why the DBRA believes that such activities do not so qualify.
(c)
Except for costs of Eligible Activities payable under Section 5 below, to the extent
that such Submission is approved, the DBRA shall cause Developer to be paid the amounts
approved within seventy-five (75) days after the date of Submission, but only to the extent that Tax
Increment Revenues attributable to the Subject Property have been submitted by the City and
County Treasurers to the DBRA. If sufficient Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the Subject
Property are not available at the time a Submission is approved and payment is due, the approved
amount shall be paid from Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the Subject Property that are
next received by the DBRA and that are not otherwise allowed to be used for purposes permitted
by Section 5 below. The DBRA reimbursement responsibility is dependent on funds received from
taxing jurisdictions provided that the Subject Property’s taxes have been paid.
(d)
To the extent that a Written Determination is provided indicating that any portion
of such Submission is not approved, any authorized representative of the DBRA and Developer
shall, upon the written request of either party within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the Written
Determination, meet promptly to discuss the reasons the submission (or any portion thereof) was
not approved and the conditions pursuant to which Developer can obtain approval of such
disallowed request, if feasible, and Developer and DBRA agree to work cooperatively and
diligently to resolve and or comply with any such conditions.
(e)
The Developer shall notify the DBRA of the completion of Eligible Activities for
which reimbursement may be sought under this Agreement and will execute and deliver to DBRA
and the City a Certificate of Completion, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B,
within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of completion of all of the Eligible Activities
for which reimbursement is sought under this Agreement. The Developer may receive progress
payments under Section 4(c) for costs incurred for Eligible Activities prior to submitting the
Certificate of Completion. In order to receive progress payments under Section 4(c), Developer
shall execute and deliver to DBRA a Certificate of Reimbursement, substantially in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit C, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of completion of
the Eligible Activities for which reimbursement is sought under this Agreement.
(f) The DBRA has determined that subject to 2(c) above, the Plan includes reimbursement
of interest for expenditures on Eligible Activities with the initial internal rate of return (the “IRR”)
calculated for the Brownfield Plan that does not exceed twenty percent (20%). Interest shall be
calculated on the local portion of the principal balance of unreimbursed Eligible Activities,
applying simple (not compounding) interest, at a rate of five percent (5%). The parties
acknowledge that the Developer intends to apply for and receive a tax abatement under the Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act, PA 146 of 2000, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the “OPRA”)
and a tax abatement under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, PA 210 of 2005, as amended
(hereinafter referred to as the “PA 210”). Interest shall accrue annually from the date when Eligible
Activities begin or the date of the expiration of the OPRA or PA 210, whichever is later, and shall
not exceed the term stated in the Brownfield Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
subsection (f) or Attachment F of the Plan, DBRA shall, first, reimburse the Developer for interest
on unreimbursed Eligible Activities before using any Local Taxes to pay down the local portion of

 the principal balance of unreimbursed Eligible Activities. In no event shall the DBRA reimburse
for interest accrued as a result of non-payment of taxes.
The Parties agree that after five (5) years of TIF capture, the DBRA shall have the right to
have the IRR projection recalculated. Such recalculation shall be based on using the previous five
(5) years of actual data and the upcoming five (5) years of projected data. To the extent such
recalculation exceeds an internal rate of return of twenty percent (20%), then the DBRA may
eliminate or reduce the interest rate to a rate where the projected internal rate of return does not
exceed twenty percent (20%). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any elimination or
reduction in interest rate provided hereunder shall only apply to interest calculations and
reimbursements after the recalculation and in no event shall affect any interest calculations or
reimbursements for the previous five (5) years.
The DBRA may only use School Taxes to reimburse interest for expenditures on the
baseline environmental assessment, due care, and additional response activities so long as the
MDEQ has approved the MDEQ Work Plan that included these activities. The DBRA may use
School Taxes to reimburse interest for expenditures on other eligible activities not identified above
so long as MSF has approved the MSF Work Plan that includes these activities.
(g)
In the event that the Developer, after approval of a Plan by the DBRA and Detroit
City Council, subsequently adds or the DBRA later becomes aware of, a land bank incentive
financing component to a Project, inclusion in the City of Detroit Land Bank, Wayne County Land
Bank or the State of Michigan Land Bank, subject to the sole discretion of the DBRA, the
Developer will not be eligible for reimbursement pursuant to this Agreement until such time as an
amended Plan, which includes such a financing component, is submitted and approved by the
DBRA and the City Council.
(h)
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Developer and its
affiliates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, executive orders, or other regulations
imposed by the City or any other properly constituted governmental authority with respect to the
Subject Property, and shall use the Subject Property in accordance with the Plan and the
Development Agreement, if any, for the term of this Agreement; and if the Developer shall fail to
do so, the DBRA may, in its sole discretion, withhold reimbursement payments under this
Agreement for as long as such violation persists, following the resolution of which any withheld
reimbursements shall be paid in accordance with this Agreement.
5.

DBRA Administrative and Operating Costs.

(a)
The DBRA shall retain and use annual Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the
Subject Property to pay administrative and operating expenses of the DBRA and to conduct other
activities permitted under Act 381, from the annual Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the
Subject Property. The amount the DBRA shall retain shall be the maximum amount authorized to
be captured under Act 381; however, for purposes of this Agreement, in no event shall such amount
exceed 15% of annual tax increment revenues. In the event, and only if, the Developer is approved
for the OPRA and/or the PA 210, the DBRA shall defer its collection of all or a portion of the
amount permitted by this Section 5 only to the extent that there is not enough Local Taxes to cover
such amount (the “Deferred Amount”) and such Deferred Amount shall be collected by DBRA, in
addition to such other amounts permitted by this Section 5, in the manner set forth in Attachment
F of the Plan.

 (b)
An initial annual amount of fifteen percent (15%) of annual tax increment revenues
shall be retained from annual Tax Increment Revenues subject to Section 5(d) below (the “DBRA
Administrative Fee”). The DBRA Administrative Fee may be adjusted upward or downward (but
in no event greater than 15% of annual tax increment revenues) by multiplying the ratio that the
levies of Taxes upon the Captured Assessed Value of the Subject Property bears to the levies of
Taxes upon the Captured Assessed Value of all eligible property from which the DBRA captures
Tax Increment Revenues with respect to the tax year in question, to meet the requirements stated
in Section 5(a) above.
(c)
The DBRA may retain the DBRA Administrative Fee permitted by this Section 5
prior to making any reimbursement under Section 4.
(d) Subject to subsection (f) below, the DBRA Administrative Fee retained pursuant to
this Section 5 may be generated only from Tax Increment Revenues attributable to the levies of
Local Taxes upon the Subject Property and after the expiration of any property tax abatements.
(e)
If all amounts retained by the DBRA from Tax Increment Revenues attributable
to the levy of Local Taxes for any year exceed the maximum amount authorized to be captured
under Act 381, the excess shall be redistributed to the Developer for reimbursement of expenses
incurred from the performance of Eligible Activities in accordance with this Agreement.
(f)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event that the
actual amount of tax increment revenues captured annually for the Plan is not sufficient to allow
DBRA to collect the DBRA Administrative Fee pursuant to this Section 5, then an amount equal
to not more than ten percent (10%) of the annual tax increment revenues shall be deferred and
accrue until eligible tax increment revenues are sufficient to pay the accrued and deferred portion
of the DBRA Administrative Fee as well as the current DBRA Administrative Fee.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5, in no instance shall DBRA receive less
than five (5%) of annual tax increment revenues (the Minimum Fee”) annually and, to the extent,
that the actual amount of tax increment revenues captured annually for a Plan is not sufficient to
allow DBRA to collect at least the Minimum Fee, then the Developer shall be required to pay an
amount equal to the shortfall in the DBRA Administrative Fee below the Minimum Fee directly to
DBRA (the “Direct Payment”). Failure by the Developer to make this Direct Payment within thirty
(30) days of when requested by DBRA in writing shall constitute a default under this Agreement.
6.

Application and Processing Fees.

All processing and application fees related to the Plan and this Agreement shall be payable
by the Developer to the DBRA.
7.

Indemnification.

(a)
Developer indemnifies, defends and holds harmless DBRA, and any and all of its
past, present and future members, officials, employees, representatives, agents and consultants
(collectively, the “Indemnified Persons”), from any and all losses, demands, claims, actions, causes
of action, assessments, suits, judgments, damages, liabilities, penalties, costs and expenses
(including without limitation the actual reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys and other
consultants) which are asserted against, or are imposed upon or incurred by DBRA or an
Indemnified Person and which are resulting from, relating to, or arising out of any of the following:

 (i)
Any order of the State, any agency thereof, or a court of competent
jurisdiction, under the process described in Section 7(a)(vi) below, requiring that the State
of Michigan or any other taxing jurisdiction be repaid or refunded any levy captured as Tax
Increment Revenues and paid to Developer as a reimbursement payment under this
Agreement made in excess of the amount of Tax Increment Revenues the DBRA is
determined by the State, any agency thereof, or a court to be allowed by law to use for such
reimbursement, with the exception of:
(1)

any payments received by the DBRA under Section 5,

(2)
any payments received by the Developer for Eligible Activity
performed before the Effective Date of the Plan and which are approved
within the DBRA Plan, and
8.

(3)

any Tax Increment Revenues required to be repaid under Section

(ii)
Any act or omission of the Developer, after taking title to the Subject
Property, with respect to the conduct of a baseline environmental assessment, due care
activity or additional response or remedial activity for the Subject Property, including any
failure by the Developer to take any affirmative action required by law to prevent the
release of a hazardous substance or any other contaminant or the exacerbation of an existing
environmental condition.
(iii)
Any release of a hazardous substance or any other contaminant on the
Subject Property or an exacerbation of an existing environmental condition, any adverse
effects on the environment, or any violation of any State or Federal environmental law,
rule or regulation arising out of, caused by or due to an act, error or omission by the
Developer.
(iv)
The acquisition, construction, equipping and undertaking of Eligible
Activities for the Subject Property.
(v)
The acquisition, construction, equipping and operation of the business of
the Developer on the Subject Property.
(vi)
In the event any person challenges or otherwise asserts that the State of
Michigan or any other taxing jurisdiction must be repaid or refunded any levy captured as
Tax Increment Revenues and paid to Developer as a reimbursement payment under this
Agreement, the DBRA shall provide written notice of such challenge or assertion and
provide the Developer with the opportunity to defend such challenge or assertion and
Developer shall not be required to repay or reimburse any such funds until a court order
addressing such issue has been issued and no right of appeal remains.
(vii)
In the event of any disagreement between the members, managers,
shareholders, directors or officers of the Developer which result in conflicting instructions
to, or adverse claims or demands upon the DBRA with respect to the payment of the
reimbursement contemplated by this Agreement, the DBRA shall refuse to comply with any
such instructions, claim or demand so long as such disagreement shall continue, and in so
refusing the DBRA shall not release the reimbursement. The DBRA shall not be or become
liable in any way for its failure or refusal to comply with any such conflicting instructions or

 adverse claims or demands, and it shall be entitled to continue to refrain from acting until
such conflicting instructions or adverse claims or demands (1) shall have been adjusted by
written agreement executed by all necessary parties and the DBRA shall have been notified
in writing thereof or (2) shall have finally been determined in a court of competent
jurisdiction. The DBRA, at its sole discretion, may file an interpleader action. Upon
depositing the reimbursement with a court of competent jurisdiction, the DBRA shall be
released from any further liability under this Agreement with respect to said reimbursement.
Charges for attorney fees and court costs in connection with this action may be deducted
from the reimbursement contemplated by this Agreement.
(b)
The DBRA may, at its discretion and without consent of the Developer, set-off any
amount owing to the Developer under this Agreement to satisfy any indemnification obligation of
the Developer under this Section 7.
(c)
Prior to the commencement of the Project, the Developer, at its cost, shall obtain
and maintain throughout the entire construction period of the Project until a Certificate of
Occupancy (temporary or permanent) has been issued by the municipal authority having
jurisdiction over the Subject Property, and require its contractors engaged in the Project to obtain
and maintain commercial general liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000 for any
single event and $2,000,000 in the aggregate, against claims of any and all persons, firms and
corporations for personal injury, death or property damage occurring upon, in or about the Subject
Property and, Developer shall provide the DBRA with a certificate evidencing such insurance and
that the Developer has the statutorily required workers’ compensation insurance (if any is so
required). The liability policies shall name the City and the DBRA as additional insureds
(excluding coverages for which this is not available). All policies shall be provided by insurers
qualified to write the respective insurance in the State of Michigan, be in such form and include
such provisions as are generally considered standard provisions for the type of insurance involved,
and, if commercially available, prohibit cancellation or substantial modification without at least
thirty (30) days written notice to the DBRA or its authorized agent. Any loss or damage against
which the DBRA is indemnified under Section 7(a) above that is recovered by such insurance shall
offset the liability of the Developer to DBRA under this Agreement.
(d)
If any suit, action or proceeding is brought against the DBRA or any Indemnified
Person related to the subject matter hereof, that action or proceeding shall be defended by counsel
to the DBRA or the Developer, as the DBRA shall determine. If the defense is by counsel to the
DBRA, the Developer shall indemnify the DBRA and Indemnified Persons for the reasonable cost
of that defense including reasonable counsel fees. If the DBRA determines that the Developer shall
defend the DBRA or Indemnified Person, the Developer shall immediately assume the defense at
its own cost. The Developer shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceedings made without
its consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned).
(e)
The Developer shall also indemnify the DBRA for all actual reasonable costs and
expenses, including actual reasonable counsel fees, incurred in:
(i)
enforcing any obligation of the Developer under this Agreement or any
related agreement to which the Developer is a party,
(ii)

taking any action requested by the Developer, or

(iii)
to the extent that such cost or expense exceeds or is not subject to Section
5 herein, taking any action on behalf of the Developer that is required of the Developer, or

 which is otherwise considered necessary by the DBRA, under this Agreement or any
related agreement to which the Developer is a party.
(f)
The obligations of the Developer under this section shall survive any assignment
or termination of this Agreement.
(g)
The Developer shall not be obligated to indemnify the DBRA or any Indemnified
Person under subsection (a), to the extent a court with competent jurisdiction finds that the liability
in question was caused by the gross negligence of the DBRA or the involved Indemnified Person(s),
unless the court determines that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all circumstances
of the case, the DBRA or the Indemnified person(s) is (are) fairly and reasonably entitled to
indemnity for the expenses which the court considers proper.
8.

Loss of Revenue from a Taxing Jurisdiction

It is understood that the Brownfield Plan as approved is intended to capture Tax Increment
Revenues from several taxing jurisdictions. In the event that a taxing jurisdiction, or any other
party, challenges the capture of any tax revenues and the State, an agency thereof, or a court of
competent jurisdiction issues an order preventing the capture and use of those revenues and
requiring the refund or repayment of any captured Tax Increment Revenue previously paid to
Developer pursuant to this Agreement, the Developer agrees to repay to the DBRA the captured
Tax Increment Revenues previously paid to Developer pursuant to this Agreement and the DBRA
agrees to reimburse the Developer, from future capturable revenues, any such repayment by the
Developer .
9.

Effective Date.

This Agreement shall take effect upon the execution date of the DBRA or Developer,
whichever is later.
10.
Enforcement.
(a)

Developer Obligations, Representations and Warranties; Termination and
Developer represents and warrants the following:

(i)
With respect to the Subject Property, Developer is not a party liable under
section 20126 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451,
MCL 324.20126.
(ii)

The Subject Property qualifies as eligible property under Act 381.

(iii)
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, Eligible Activities
will begin within eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date and be completed in the
manner and in compliance with the terms of the Plan within three (3) years after execution
of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this subsection, any longterm monitoring or operation or maintenance activities or obligations that may be required
will be performed in compliance with the terms of the Plan or MSF Work Plan or MDEQ
Work Plan and any documents prepared pursuant to such Plan or MSF Work Plan or
MDEQ Work Plan.

 (iv)
Neither the Plan nor the development of the Subject Property include a
land bank incentive financing component from, and the Subject Property is not and will
not be included in, the City of Detroit Land Bank, Wayne County Land Bank or State of
Michigan Land Bank.
(v)
Except for the OPRA and PA 210, the Subject Property is not subject to
any current or pending property tax adjustments, property tax abatements or property tax
assessment appeals, not previously disclosed in writing to DBRA, and the Developer shall
provide a sworn statement to the DBRA prior to each reimbursement under this Agreement
indicating whether such an adjustment, abatement or appeal is then pending. In the event
the Subject Property becomes subject to any property tax adjustments, property tax
abatements or property tax assessment appeals (pending or otherwise) during the term of
the Plan, the Developer shall immediately provide the DBRA with written notice of such
event and the effective date of any adjustment, abatement or appeal; and upon receipt of
said notice, the DBRA shall adjust the amount of Tax Increment Revenue available for
capture pursuant to the Plan and future reimbursements to the Developer under this
Agreement to the extent impacted by the adjustment, abatement or appeal. The Developer
acknowledges that said adjustment, abatement or appeal may result in the repayment of
any captured Tax Increment Revenue previously paid to the Developer pursuant to this
Agreement and the Developer agrees to repay to the DBRA the captured Tax Increment
Revenues previously paid to Developer in such amounts requested by the DBRA to the
extent impacted as a result of such adjustment, abatement or appeal. The DBRA may, at
its discretion and without consent of the Developer, set-off any amount owing to the
Developer under this Agreement to satisfy any repayment obligation of the Developer
under this Section 10(a)(v).
(vi)
On the first anniversary of the Effective Date and subsequently
recommencing on each annual anniversary thereof, the Developer shall execute and deliver
a report, substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, to the DBRA regarding the
status of the Project and said report shall include all information necessary for the DBRA
to report to the City, MDEQ and/or MSF under section 16(3) of Act 381. The DBRA may
waive this requirement in writing in its sole discretion. The DBRA may, at its discretion
and without consent of the Developer, withhold any amount owing to the Developer under
this Agreement in the event Developer fails to comply with this Section 10(a)(vi).
(vii)
If applicable, the Developer shall provide the DBRA with advance notice
of any proposed amendments to the Development Agreement and shall provide DBRA
with a fully-executed copy of any amendment, modification or addendum to the
Development Agreement.
(viii)

Developer shall comply with the DBRA Guidelines, as amended.

(ix)
Developer shall comply with any and all applicable local, state and federal
laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, and executive orders.
(b)
The DBRA may terminate this Agreement should Developer (1) fail to fulfill in a
timely and proper manner any of its obligations under this Agreement; or (2) violate a
representation or warranty in Section 10(a); or (3) upon the termination of the Development
Agreement, if any, as it pertains to the Subject Property; or (4) Developer fails to complete the
development project as substantially described in the Plan, subject to changes to the development

 project approved by DBRA; provided that before such termination the DBRA shall deliver to the
Developer a written notice of termination specifically describing the breach causing issuance of the
notice of termination, unless otherwise stated herein, and the Developer shall have thirty (30) days
after delivery of the notice to cure such breach; provided however, if the nature of the breach is
such that thirty (30) days is not a reasonable time to complete the cure, then provided Developer
has commenced activities to cure the breach and is diligently pursuing the cure of the breach,
Developer shall have a reasonable time to cure the breach, provided, however, in no event shall
such cure period exceed ninety (90) days without the prior written consent of DBRA. If the
Developer cures within the time allowed (as may be extended), then this Agreement shall not be
terminated for the breach. If the Developer does not cure, then the termination shall be effective
on the 31st day after the notice of termination is delivered unless the cure period is extended
pursuant to this Section. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 10(b), the
Developer acknowledges and agrees that no cure period shall be provided to the Developer with
respect to a default by Developer in connection with the representations and warranties described
in Section 10(a)(i)-(iv) or upon the termination of the Development Agreement.
(c)
Upon the effective date of the termination of this Agreement, the DBRA shall have
no further obligation under this Agreement to make any payments to Developer in reimbursement
of any costs of Eligible Activities incurred or to be incurred by the Developer.
(d)
In lieu of termination, the DBRA may seek to enforce and compel
performance with the terms of this Agreement in a court of competent jurisdiction by specific
performance or mandatory injunction and may pursue any other remedy that may be available to it
at law or equity.
11.

Miscellaneous.

(a)
Developer and the DBRA, with the assistance of their respective legal counsel,
have negotiated together to reach the terms of this Agreement, participated in the drafting of this
Agreement and acknowledge that this Agreement is the product of the joint effort of both parties.
In no event shall the terms of this Agreement be construed more strictly against one party than the
other party.
(b)
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Developer and
the DBRA, and their respective heirs, successors, assigns and transferees. The rights and/or
obligations hereunder are assignable to any entity, except to a party liable under section 20126 of
1994 PA 451, subject to approval of the DBRA, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. In the event of any assignment or transfer of any right or obligation hereunder, such
assignment or transfer shall be subject to all provisions under this Agreement. This Agreement
shall not be affected or altered in any way by any sale, lease, or other disposition or sale of all or a
portion of the Subject Property.
(c)
This Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with Michigan
law and shall be subject to interpretation and enforcement only in Michigan courts whether federal
or state.
(d)

This Agreement may be signed in counterparts.

(e)
In no event shall the provisions of this Agreement be deemed to inure to the benefit
of or be enforceable by any third party.

 (f)
Except as otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, the rights and remedies of
the parties are cumulative, and the exercise by any party of one or more of such rights or remedies
shall not preclude the exercise by it, at the same time or different times, of any other rights or
remedies for the same default or any other default by any other party.
(g)
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and integrates all of
the terms and conditions mentioned herein or incidental hereto and supersedes all negotiations or
previous agreements between the parties with respect to all or any part of the subject matter hereof.
(h)
A party may waive any default, condition, promise, obligation or requirement
applicable to any other party hereunder, provided that any such waiver shall apply only to the extent
expressly given and shall not be deemed or construed to waive any such or other default, condition,
promise, obligation or requirement in any past or future instance. All waivers of the provisions of
this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the appropriate officers of the waiving party, and
all amendments hereto must be in writing and signed by the appropriate officers of all of the parties.
(i)
In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement
and the terms of any other agreement, document or understanding of the parties, this Agreement
shall control.
(j)
All notices, certificates or communications required by this Agreement to be given
shall be sufficiently given and shall be deemed delivered when personally served or sent by
facsimile (promptly confirmed in writing) or when mailed by express courier or registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the respective parties at the
addresses listed below:
If to the DBRA:

Authorized Agent
City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: (313) 963-2940
Fax: (313) 963-8839

With a copy to:

Rebecca Navin, Esq.
General Counsel
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: (313) 237-4627
Fax: (313) 963-2940
Email: rnavin@degc.org

and

Municipal Law Department
Lewis & Munday, P.C.
535 Griswold Street, Suite 2300
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: (313) 961-2550
Fax: (313) 961-1270

 If to the Developer:

Eric Means
600 Ventures II, LLC
535 Griswold Street, Suite 1410
Detroit, MI 48226
Phone: (313) 263-3655

[Signatures follow on next page]

 DEVELOPER:
600 VENTURES II, LLC,
a Michigan limited liability company
By: __________________________
Printed Name: __________________
Its: __________________________

STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF WAYNE

)
) ss.
)

The foregoing Agreement was acknowledged before me this _____ day of __________,
2019, by ______________________, the _________________, of 600 Ventures II, LLC, a
Michigan limited liability company on behalf of said entity.
__

________________________________

Notary Public
___________________
Michigan
My
Commission
______________

County,
Expires:

 CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
a Michigan municipal corporation
By: _______________________________
Its: Authorized Agent
and
By: _______________________________
Its: Authorized Agent
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF WAYNE

)

)
) ss.

The foregoing Agreement was acknowledged before me this _____ day of _________,
2019, by ___________________, and ____________________, the Authorized Agents,
respectively, of the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.
__

________________________________

Notary Public
___________________
Michigan
My
Commission
______________
APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY:
Lewis & Munday, a Professional Corporation
Counsel to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
By:

County,
Expires:

 EXHIBIT A
Legal Description of Subject Property

[See attached document]

EXHIBIT B
Certificate of Completion
TO:

CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

AND TO:

STATE OF MICHIGAN

The undersigned, the ____________ of ______________ (the “Developer”)
hereby certifies as follows for and on behalf of the Developer in connection with certain activities
at the Property (as hereinafter define):
1.
Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a true, correct and complete copy of the
Brownfield Plan (the “Plan”) approved by the Detroit Brownfield Development Authority (the
“DBRA”) for the property located at _______________________________ (the “Property”). No
proceedings have been taken or are pending to amend, surrender or cancel the Plan.
2.
Attached hereto as Exhibit B is the true, correct and complete copy of all
documents that set forth the activities to be completed in preparation of or pursuant to the Plan for
the Property, which may include without limitation, the Phase I Environmental Site Assessment,
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment, Baseline Environmental Assessment, Due Care Plan,
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality work plan or remedial action plan, and the
Michigan Strategic Fund work plan (collectively, the “Documents”).
3.
Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a copy of the Certificate of Occupancy
(temporary or permanent) issued by the municipal authority having jurisdiction over the Property
as evidence that the construction of the Project has been completed in accordance with the
construction permits issued by the municipal authority.
4.
Except as otherwise set forth in Exhibit B, all activities or obligations set
forth in the Documents have been completed in the manner and in compliance with the terms of
the Documents; provided, however, that any long-term monitoring or operation or maintenance
activities or obligations set forth in the Documents, will be performed in compliance with the terms
of the Documents.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate on this
_____ day of __________, 201__.
_____________________________
By:

________________________

Its:

________

 EXHIBIT C
Certificate of Reimbursement
TO:

CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

AND TO:

STATE OF MICHIGAN

The undersigned, as the ____________ of ________________ (ENTITY NAME), a
___________ (STATE) _______________(TYPE OF ENTITY) (the “Developer”), submits this
certification pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement executed between the Developer and the Detroit
Brownfield Development Authority (the “DBRA”) on ____________ (the “Reimbursement
Agreement”). As __________________ of Developer, and in the name of and on behalf of the
Developer in connection with certain activities completed at the Property (as hereinafter defined), I
hereby certify as follows:
1. As __________________ of Developer, I am authorized to
execute and deliver this certification, and can commit the Developer to the
conditions, obligations, stipulations, and undertakings contained in the Brownfield
Plan (the “Plan”) approved by the DBRA and the Reimbursement Agreement for
the property located at ___________________________ (the “Property”).
2. Attached as Exhibit A is a narrative description of the
activities that have been completed for the Property as of the date of this
Certification for which the Developer seeks reimbursement. These activities
qualify as Eligible Activities under Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996, as
amended, and are eligible for reimbursement pursuant to the Plan and the
Reimbursement Agreement. The activities set forth in Exhibit A have been
completed in the manner and in compliance with the terms of the Plan and the
Plan’s supporting documents.
3. Attached as Exhibit B are true, correct and complete copies
of all: (a) documents or reports for which reimbursement is requested; (b) invoices
covering the activities for which the Developer seeks reimbursement; and (c)
substantiating documents for such invoices.
4. The Subject Property is not subject to any current or pending
property tax adjustments or property tax assessment appeals, except as previously
disclosed to the DBRA in writing.
5. None of the costs for which reimbursement is requested
represent costs that: (a) have been paid for with a grant or forgivable loan; or (b)
are costs for which a credit was received by the Developer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate for
Reimbursement on this _____ day of __________, 201__.
_____________________________
By:
Its:

________________________

 The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on this _____ day of __________, 201__.by
_______________________, the _________________ of Developer.
_____________________________
Notary Public
Acting in ________________ County, _________
My Commission Expires: ____________________

 EXHIBIT D
ANNUAL ACTIVE PROJECT REPORTING FORM
TO:

THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

The undersigned, as the _____________________ of ________________
(ENTITY NAME), a _______________ (STATE) _______________(TYPE OF ENTITY) (the
“Developer”), submits this reporting form pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement executed
between the Developer and the Detroit Brownfield Development Authority (the “DBRA”) on
____________ (the “Reimbursement Agreement”). As ______________ of Developer, and in the
name of and on behalf of the Developer in connection with certain activities completed at the
Property (as hereinafter defined), I hereby certify as follows:
1. As _________________ of
Developer, I am authorized to execute and deliver this
reporting form, and can commit the Developer to the
conditions, obligations, stipulations, and undertakings
contained in the Brownfield Plan (the “Plan”)
approved by the DBRA and the Reimbursement
Agreement
for the property located at
_______________________________
(the
“Property”).
2. Attached as Exhibit A is a report
on the status of the Project (as defined in the Plan) and
contains the information necessary for the DBRA to
report to the City of Detroit, Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality and/or the Michigan Strategic
Fund under section 16(3)(f), (j), (i), (j), and (k) of Act
381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996, as amended.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Annual Active
Project Reporting Form on this _____ day of __________, 201__.
_________________________
By:
________________________
Its:
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on this _____ day of __________,
201__.by _______________________, the ___________________ of Developer.
_____________________________
Notary Public
Acting in ________________ County,
_________
____________________

My Commission Expires:

 EXHIBIT A TO EXHIBIT D
ANNUAL ACTIVE PROJECT REPORT
DATE
PROJECT NAME
STATUS OF PROJECT
TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT
SQUARE FEET OF REHABILITATED
RESIDENTIAL
NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS
SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL
SQUARE FEET OF COMMERCIAL
SQUARE FEET OF INDUSTRIAL
*LINEAR FEET OF PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE
INSTALLED (ex. green storm water projects, sewer
line, water line, curb, etc.)
* SQUARE FEET OF PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE
INSTALLED (ex. parking structures, green storm water
projects, sidewalk, road, alley, etc.)
NUMBER OF TEMPORARY JOBS CREATED
PERCENTAGE OF TEMP. JOBS WITH DETROIT
RESIDENTS
NUMBER OF PERMANENT JOBS CREATED
NUMBER OF PERMANENT JOBS CREATED WITH
DETROIT RESIDENTS
NUMBER OF JOBS RETAINED
*only if costs are part of tax increment financing reimbursement request

 AFFIDAVIT
Certification of Information
State of Michigan
County of Wayne

)
)
)

I,

______, being first duly sworn, depose and hereby represent and warrant
(Name of Company Officer)

on behalf of ____________________________________________ (“Company”) that: (i) the information
(Name of Company)

provided on the attached City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Annual Active Project Report, and any
supporting documentation attached thereto, is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge1 as of the date submitted to
the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority; and (ii) the undersigned is fully authorized to provide said
certification on behalf of the Company.

_______________________
(Name of Company)
By: _____________________________
Printed Name: ____________________
Its: _____________________________
Date
Subscribed and sworn to before me this
_______ day of ___________________, 201___
________________________________________
Notary Public
Wayne County
My Commission Expires: ______/______/_______

1 “To the best of my knowledge” shall mean (a) in the case of an individual, a particular fact or matter actually known or which could
be expected to be known after reasonable inquiry in the ordinary and usual course of the performance of his or her professional
responsibilities, and (b) in the case of an Entity, if any individual who is serving as an executive officer or manager has, or at any time
had, actual knowledge or could have been expected to know after reasonable inquiry in the ordinary and usual course of the performance
of his or her professional responsibilities, of such fact or other matter.

 CODE DBRA 19-05-262-18
LAND ASSEMBLY PROJECT:
AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WITH FCA AND CITY
WHEREAS, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the City
of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit (the
“City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City
relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant, located at
Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs; and

WHEREAS, as contemplated by the MOU, representatives of FCA, DBRA and the City
have negotiated the terms of a development agreement (the “Development Agreement”), a
summary of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Development Agreement, the DBRA will agree to assemble
and prepare certain land for FCA’s use consistent with Exhibit B attached hereto and FCA will
agree to construct the Mack Engine Plan, a development plan of which is attached hereto as
Exhibit C.; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute a
Development Agreement, consistent with the terms of Exhibits A, B and C; and
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the DBRA’s purposes of promoting the
revitalization and reuse of certain properties and is otherwise consistent with its powers and
purposes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the DBRA to negotiate and execute a Development Agreement consistent with the
terms of Exhibits A, B and C, together with such other terms as agreed by DBRA’s Authorized
Agents and approved by counsel, not inconsistent with the terms set forth herein.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other
actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on
behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
Authorized Agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the

 foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
May 8, 2019

 EXHIBIT A

Summary of Development Agreement
FCA’s Project:
●

FCA will complete construction and commence operations of the Mack Plant by no later than December
1, 2022 (under certain delay conditions, the deadline may be extended to December 1, 2023).

●

The project is intended to create approximately 3,850 net new full-time employees in the operation of
the Mack Plant, plus another projected 1,100 jobs as part of the planned Jefferson North Assembly
Plant retooling project.

City/DBRA Land Assembly:
●

Purchase and Sale of Parcels: DBRA is delivering parcels in three categories: (1) delivering City-owned
parcels to FCA; (2) purchasing a number of parcels from third parties, then conveying those parcels to
FCA; (3), facilitating the transfer of parcels directly from third party owners to FCA, without entering
the chain of title.
o In connection with each parcel to be conveyed to FCA, the City/DBRA will facilitate rezoning (as
necessary), conduct Phase I environmental studies and conduct additional environmental testing as
directed by FCA.
o DBRA will also conduct certain environmental remediation and site preparation activities on
parcels to be delivered to FCA.

●

DBRA is also taking down the berm west of the Mack Plant property, immediately to the west of St.
Jean Street, between East Warren Avenue and Kercheval Avenue, and will construct a sound barrier in
its place, to better separate the plant campus from the adjacent area and mitigate potential noise impacts
from the project.

●

The City will vacate portions of St. Jean Street Avenue, as well as partial sections of the East Vernor
Highway, Charlevoix Street, Goethe Street, Conner Lane and East Canfield Street rights of way so that
those vacated rights of way can be incorporated into the project’s footprint.

Workforce Commitments: Subject to collective bargaining commitments, FCA will use good faith efforts
to provide Detroit residents the opportunity to apply for production jobs in accordance with the following:
●

Initial Application Process: DESC has agreed to support aspects of FCA's talent needs as they relate
to recruiting, pre-screening and vetting, and work-readiness training related to production jobs with a
value of at least $2 million.
o

FCA will work with DESC to develop an initial application process that gives Detroit residents the
opportunity to apply for production jobs, subject to FCA providing priority to UAW candidates.

o

Subject to priority being given to the UAW candidates, FCA will, in cooperation with DESC, open
specified windows exclusively for Detroit residents (anticipated to be 1 - 2 weeks each) to apply
for production jobs (first, to Detroit residents who reside in the geographic areas most impacted by
the project due to their proximity to the Mack Plant, second, to all other Detroit residents, including
individuals who have successfully completed the DESC readiness program as a result of a criminal
conviction, or who are military veterans).

 ●

Hiring After Initial Application Process: After the initial application process is completed, FCA will
consider continuing to provide the above-referenced application priorities for DESC candidates if FCA
and DESC mutually agree in writing on the terms of such, including DESC continuing to provide inkind support services to FCA.

Financial Commitments:
●

FCA has projected a $1.6 billion investment in the Mack Plant, and a $900 million investment in the
Jefferson North Assembly Plant.

●

The City, in partnership with the State, has offered a $107,590,0002 financial package, which constitutes
the “Municipal Project Funds” available for all activities under the Development Agreement.
o The City’s cash contribution consists of $36 million of City bond proceeds, $7.09 million in funds
available from asset sales and a $7.5 million loan to the DBRA, payable from TIF revenues.
o The City has requested $57 million in grants and loans from the State to support site preparation.

●

In addition, the City has contributed approximately $14.35 million worth of land for land exchanges to
acquire certain parcels for contribution to the project.

Remedies/Repayments to the City/DBRA:
●

FCA has agreed to report the various revenues produced by the project in the form of City income tax
from new jobs, property tax increases (net of abatements and TIF capture), and growth in corporate
City income tax as a result of expanded operations.
o

If the City does not recoup its approximately $57.4 million direct investment ($43.09 million
in cash granted, $14.35 million in land) within thirty years, FCA will pay the City the shortfall.

●

If FCA does not commence operations of the Mack Plant by December 1, 2023 (and its failure is
confirmed through the arbitration process built in to the document) title to the contributed property may
re-vest in the DBRA by either (1) a right of reverter, with respect to properties that are conveyed by the
DBRA or (2) the enforcement of a “Grant of Rights” which functions like a reverter, but with respect
to property conveyed directly by third parties to FCA.

●

If FCA (prior to the City’s recoupment of its investment or within 15 years, whichever is later) ceases
operations of the plant for a period of sixty (60) consecutive months, the DBRA has the opportunity to
re-purchase a 58-acre assembling including the former Conners Creek Power Plant property for fair
market value.

●

If (prior to the City’s recoupment of its investment) FCA seeks to re-sell any parcels prior to the
recoupment of the City’s investment, it must determine and notify the DBRA that the sale will result
in similar use of the property, or receive City approval. In either case, the DBRA receives 75% of the
sale proceeds.

2

The State component only represents State funds requested by the City in support of the project.

 EXHIBIT 
Site Preparation Activities

Ill

"Jill-FT Don--
13 2 

 

 

 

Garland Ielduding Parcels E- and 10E

1.



[.11 lil-

Dhtain ail necessary.I pecrnil: and approvals for stte work included In this Scope
of Work, crroslide cop-.rto PEA thetali blight issues are resoi'ued.

removedfdemol-as?ed materialsto be disposed o'l'f-siteI including 
colhtaminated materials and eat-stated so-i-1s in accordance I.il.rilth all applicable
local. state and federal fnaironmen?l Laws and to the FEM-each
individual site.

street closurs and signage as required.

Cod-tractor or to provide third-part9 Cum: testing For this Scope-of 
Flrdu'II-de soil erosion and sedimentation control measures toereas oftL-ork and
adjacent impacted roa-ds. Maintain for the duration or'tlour we 5E5:
measures to remain in plate at tornphetion work.

Frowde ?it-Ir oFEtetro?It. F'utlli-I: Lighting department, and permits and
inspections as required.

Complete Phase I and I1 Environmental Site assessments and any DEE-EL
En'u'irohrnahlal and provide associated tio-tumen?tion to FLA, as
appropriate FE.- d'Ie reo'LIIremen-ts oF the Development Agreement

Each site shall beta-med ou'er Eta consistent grade with 'IIari-ance within to
appi'a to those 571% I.-.Ihere ems-ration is heir-lg undertaken.

complete removal and disposal oFTuIJole, debris and impacted ?ll
identi?ed within the top Efeet Below glad-a. if am.-I for remotes: or
structures houses, garages, etc.] in atoo-rdance witrr all
state and federal Environmental Laws. iotatienso'F
previous so'uclsures us'rrg not limited to hisoa-rical aerial photographs.

. Document are and post demolition activitiesto allow for ve?FIL?ation of

appropriate disposal of all regulated lwaste associated with materials
and content. Including but not lirmted th asbesoasa-ncl lead based paint

Fromde Eit? -:lear of dash and oat-ris at turn over
. Flemo'i-einactive utilities Ijahooe and graoe to .a a'eptrl feetlu to

pfopeI'tIlr line pro-aiding utility.I connection point on each ouroper'tlliI For future He
in.

. Eat-ordinate arid-I all Utility- Compani? and ensure a1  inoam-ng utiliI?JF-Jare

documented. decommissioned and made safe paid-r to an-lr on slte
Ensure proper sign-tilts tr,- each Lrtilitllr Dompahllrare completed.

. Remove any miscellaneous deb-risano' stod-cpiled soils that are on the aurE-Ice of

the site.

 

I.

'l'l

I-
I I
l"ll

?ll-MT" TEFL 
Elf-5'3 

 

 

 

15. Decumenc mlerte FIE-E. an).I as?buit ill?nWiI'LES she-lining,r we-rk par?: rrnacl.

LIE militia remaining. etc.

Parcels 1I 1A, El, BA and 3-H any;

1-

pl

Flea-J". sewers and curbs for Stream nae-J te remain Inspectinan ancl clement
medium Elf mantha and sewer inf'rastructure. Plait-arm cleaning at sewer
inflestm?ure as required. Elean Etch easi'n strucmra ancl cucurnent
cemzlicinn
Feline-lie ancl dispese-bfeicilsting Berrns west-cut St Jean incJudirig-axisting
sidewalks. retaining wall-s and streets within screen
within newly eslebhs-hecl l.llnesl: lines) in attendance with arl 
local. state and fe?alel Emir-enmenlal Laws. Eu! ?nal 311-1}? 2 Feet halal-I.-
acljacen-t glecles cc-mpaHt-a 959E- mecli?ad praccbr. area with. of 1" la: 3"
crushed concrete scene. Heme-Hamil tn the extenticlenti?ecl an-zi replace
with c+aan cemp-actable ?ll-
Flame-ale c-felectri-caa ancl c-c-rnrnunicaticln feeds berJ-lctesbIJr-ce 
StJean and arr-Ir atreeE that incersect the alle'l; nclucling all existing PEI-LE and
basal- iriacchr-cla nce with all applicable I-clcel. state ancl. 
Laws-
Heme-ale all bmsl'u'trees ancl arr-.- nuscellaneeus clebris Frem 'cl'la surl'aceaf aha
sit-a.
Feraae'h- structure ?builcling. tic-nag. ecc.  t4:- lJa rerncl'te-cl:

a. Previcle asbestos sun-al.-
?unenge With the acrtherilcy I-EI water
?nengefe' clfgas sen-lice
Anenge Fer electncai discanne-zcicln

News

Preuicle Tequ-recl 1c- r-cIti-ce precess p-riclrte demelushingtne
structure.

Fric-r ta ?lling nperatie-Ins in all utilityI centlactc-rsnall
excavate s-c-iEssuilalb?e use.

Fem-wee cemceeticrn testing results For all new?lul areas cc: veri?lrtha areas haue
been ?llecl

InE'rte EE- Email-ata- area fun-re :Ietenlacln as lrecluirecl ca.-
engineering plan's.

 

DMFT - r-c-n we 
?aces 

 

 

 



1.

nl

Head, sewers and curbs fur Hack Sen-ice Head In remain. Insaectian and d-cucunient

candid-an manhules and sewer'nn?as'crunure. cleaning-cut sewer

infrastructure as catch basin structures and document cc-nci-tic-n.

Eu: ?nal glide 2 feet held-It adjacent gtada compact cc- 9395 circular. Fill

efea wind": 12" cut 1" tn: 3" crushed cancrete cur arena and an additive-nil 12" Eli?

engineered ?ll 

Rem-sue and ef electJi-EII and feeds hack th scurce 

Mala: Sentice Drive and anllr streets that'lntessecc the in attendance with all

applicable lecal, state andf-ademl Environments: Laws. [Indudirag all existing dale:

and Eases).

Rem-sue all c-anrIJtrees and anyI rn'rece1laneclt? aehns from the scm'ace cf the site.

For each (building, heme-5. gar-g5. etc.) to he removed:

Provide ashestcus surveyr

Arrange with the aLrtharithth diacc-nnect water

Arranger?er diicc-nnect clfgas sen-lice

Anange Fur electnca! discennect'lun

. Prat-idle reqmred nclti?ce precess p'iclr tn:- demclliahing the


F'nal G'Ia-de Area ?st Future ta he ergineered ?ll compact-sate 9551':

mcld'rhed prectcur

Fri-:Ir th ?lling-:uperetidns In Lrtii'rt'lr shalI

excavate-ta aailssuitahle tc: sac-pert anticipate: use.

Preside tub-ting result: for all areas tc: verify the areas hatre been

pmperiy- ?llecl



 

 FIJI-I 


 

 

 

Parcel 

Parcel TIT



4.

5-.

Road. answers and curbs for it seem toremein. Inspection and document
condition of manho les and sewer Perform rJeaning of sewer
Infrastrucmre as required. cleen Etch basin structu r5 and document
condition

Cut giade 2 feet below adjacent glades compect to 9557: modi?ed proctor. Fill
area Iwith 5? off to 3" crushed concrete orstone and an of
engineered El 

Remove alr br'uslu'trees and any mmellaneous debris From surface of site.
Final Glade Area for feture ?ll to be engineered. ?ll come-acted to
959-5- rnodi?eo' proctor.

Fri?orto ?lling operations in all excavations utility.I rem-oualsl connector sisa'l
eaccas'ete tc-soils suitable to support anticipated use.

Flrolnde oz-moactio-ntesong results for all ?ll area to 'uerrF-J the areas Ilia-re been
properlIIr?liecl.

iloacl, sewers, and curbs for 5t Jean and Shoemaker to remain. Inspection and
document condition of manholes and sewer rnflasb'ucture. perform cleaning of
sewerin?astructureas reomred Dean Eaton bEin soructures ano document
condition.
Completehl demolish exisbngaoancloneo building. existing foundations. grade
beams, era-tie wells, pits, trenches, 'n'ilul'E, stack, si-te walls and site fer-one.
osncre-tefasohal-t Fla-Jung or am; other obetmctions to a depth or'two feet
below?.I grade -n accordance with all apoiirabte locate state and federal
Environmental Laws. Document ancl bum over to FDA :prior to property. b'ar-efer.
Removal of all exisbng utihib?es existiogcommercia' bu-Idl'og'.
a. Disconnect the H3 piping to and remove the LIE pioing to
the maire
Disconnect the citllr water piping and cap atthe main.



Disconnect the sanitar-II line ancl cap atthe main.
ct. Demolish ail electrical services. bra?eh feeders, feeders. cable clay,
conduit lighting Tortura, ?re alarm tie-rites, security sip-stem and atl
other electrical equipment back to che source.
Elem-we anllr miscellaneous oebris ar1-::i stockpiled soils that are or- ti'e sui?ce of
thesite
Eiearfgrub all miscelleneous treesr'brush.

 

 F'l'il' 
Pf?? ill-4 r15: 1MB

 

 

 

KEITH-T531 grade 2 feet her-aw adjacEn-t grades cam-past sci 959E medi?ed 
Fill area with 12" af 1" In 3" crushed centrete stune and an add-?enal .13" all
engineered El 

Final Glade area far future constructicln. ?ll be engineered ?ll temsactedte


Friertcl ?lling in all excavaticlns utilit?i.I rameuals 
excavate tc. s1:Ii s te supper-t anticipated use.

Fremde cemeactinn?t-asting resulls far all ?ll areas to verify the areas have been
filiecl.

Piu'tei E-Cdnners?zeelr Willem Parcel Drill:

1.



Elem-dish all site structures ha a minimum aft feel: belch-i existing grade
inclucing. but Hat limite?s te, farmer main gatel'ltluseI truck stalu. nail leading
duel-r, ent-re newer turbine building scale crane tnuilaclingI siles all
Dutl'li'il'lg structures, al-l ash handling and teal ceneeyance systems and
strur-.ures. has far farmer 5M ?fuel cl'vl stelage lanlc struezures
and t-asins.

Hem-sue all universal wsstE t-n site in-tludlng asb?cls, themicaE. refrigerarIE.
batteries.

All basements be fractured and ueids bactiilled and campattc?d with dean
Fill. An 2:1 sin-pa will be pres-ides aseund the perlm-ater ttI mitigate trip
hazard-s.

E-ull-ti'rea-zi tanals as necessary- cnfaciFitate ?lling

Daylight tunnels and ?lled with tempactecl clean fillr wh+ch ?ll will not include
brid-t masonry.

Lealre 1.5" main! diameter gravel dr flu-arable ?ll sui?ble Fer cd-rhpactier. as 
material that wi'? besdread, nailed and cm the site.

Lealre ail existing asphalt panting int and dirt araas as is.

muniturthe Dem-elitist: Wart. at regularinteruals and wild} 
ncutice and ii: aesueliti-dn tuna-acre r.

include hig?rrleu'el milestones and milutene Illal'ESWI'hE'l'lu establish-ad b1.-
El'rE [cm-hatter

Phase rl EB. identi?ea I?nal dhsite usr. address remeual. erasure.

reporting tattle extent req'IJIre-al bl,- E-tate regulaticlh relacc-a te the: 

'u'egetatien will he: be rematred unless deemed necessarlli fer Eh cleanup.

 


H.

II



 - FIJIH [2 th


 

 

 

armament ufFil'lTEhEd vehicle - site 12


.I..

Design EIHEI i'rnse?sue pflcutl ?nished vehicle panting with as? 
- 15"] asphalt and 10" 2.1M. sub-base.

Pavement striping shall be 4" vii-?e sefe-tv veil-aw.

rnstell aluminum lighting pdiesv'LEI light fixtures and all assc-ciated
cc-nrduiti'winng fur uperatidnal svstem and tie-achieve an averege of5 Fee-t
candies.

Finished vehicle have 1" chain lint fencing with barbed wire and cable
harder ereemd entire perimeter

Finished vehicle intshall have intenoclcing barriers arpun-zi
entire perimeter.

Finished vehicle have dedicated guard- heme

Finisnecl ve'nirJe Hat shall be equipped with securityI Infraslz'ucture ti:-
supp-art securitv cemem cmemge entire Inc. including additidnal
infrastructure fer g-ate nmtna-ls can be identi?ed i511 FILE.

F'rcn'v'ide end Implement plan farjite Prenatatida'rreleted water
management induding all requirements during 42in.I ph?e vm-rlc Sturm meter
F'dilutlnn Preventidn Plan tn beturned cmertcl Fill-E. aFter acceptance at area and
rneintained n1.- their CMJEC.

Eencrete lcrac?ng padI wild"- to he prdvided lav Fm.

Eubject pric-r ndt'ice. cumpliancue l.ivith safe-tn.-r Insurance c-r anv ether requirements of the 
pen?tHrning dnsite wurl-i and manner that dues ince4'fere with cmgc?ing writ. Fen. would be
granted access all mdnestiee during site pcep activitIE perform Gedtechnical sails testing. as Well

as land surveving.

 

- 



II



EXHIBIT 
Development Plan

 

av Drum:

99 

 

Current Facility

Parcels

Building
Rail

 

725

East Warren Ave
l'A

Mack 

East le?erson AW

 

 

 

0?90

 

?0?09




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Un

IA Employee Parking

Employee/Trailer Parking
Temporary Parking
Temporary Parking

7A2 Employee Parking

7C Trailer Parking

8 Trailer Parking

8A Stormwater Detention

88 Trailer Parking

I0 Vehicle Logistics

l2 Vehicle Logistics



 

0.25 0.5 mi

 

 

 

CODE DBRA 19-05-262-19
LAND ASSEMBLY PROJECT: AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO LAND TRANSFER
WITH CITY AND ACCEPT FUNDING FROM CITY AND MSF
WHEREAS, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the City
of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit (the
“City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City
relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant, located at
Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs; and

WHEREAS, as contemplated by the MOU, to date, DBRA and/or the City have negotiated
agreements for the acquisition of nearly 215 acres of property near the Project site, as shown on
Exhibit A hereto of which Sites 1, 8, 7A2 and 7C (the “City Properties”) are owned by the City;
and
WHEREAS, in order to facilitate the transfer of the City Properties to DBRA and, following
the completion of site preparation activities thereon, to FCA, representatives from the City and
DBRA have negotiated a Land Transfer Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit B (the “LTA”); and
WHEREAS, in order to fund the DBRA’s land assembly and site preparation activities for
the Project, DBRA staff recommends the DBRA accept funds from the City, the MSF, and the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes & Environment as further described on
Exhibit C (collectively, the “Funds”); and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute the LTA,
substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B and to negotiate and appropriate funding
and/or loan agreements, as appropriate, for the acceptance of the Funds as further described on
Exhibit C; and
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the DBRA’s purposes of promoting the
revitalization and reuse of certain properties and is otherwise consistent with its powers and
purposes.

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the DBRA to negotiate and execute the LTA consistent with the terms of Exhibit B
and funding agreements and/or loan agreements, as appropriate, for the acceptance of the Funds
as further described on Exhibit C, together with such other terms as agreed by DBRA’s
Authorized Agents and approved by counsel, not inconsistent with the terms set forth herein.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other
actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on
behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
Authorized Agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
May 8, 2019

 EXHIBIT A
Development Plan

 

av Drum:

99 

 

Current Facility

Parcels

Building
Rail

 

725

East Warren Ave
l'A

Mack 

East le?erson AW

 

 

 

0?90

 

?0?09




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Un

IA Employee Parking

Employee/Trailer Parking
Temporary Parking
Temporary Parking

7A2 Employee Parking

7C Trailer Parking

8 Trailer Parking

8A Stormwater Detention

88 Trailer Parking

I0 Vehicle Logistics

l2 Vehicle Logistics



 

0.25 0.5 mi

 

 

 

Exhibit 
LTA

See attached.

LAND TRANSFER AGREEMENT
(Industrial Land Assembly Project: Mack Assembly Plant)
This Land Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") made this _____ day of __________, 2019,
by and between the CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan public body corporate, acting by and
through its Planning & Development Department (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), and the
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a Michigan
public body corporate organized and existing under the authority of Act 381 of the Public Acts of
Michigan 1996, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the "DBRA").
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, the DBRA was organized by the City pursuant to Act 381 of Michigan Public
Acts of 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), in order to, among other things, promote the revitalization,
redevelopment, and reuse of certain property, including, but not limited to, tax reverted, blighted,
or functionally obsolete property; and
WHEREAS, the City has previously requested assistance from the DBRA in acquiring
and/or preparing land in the City for the purpose of contributing such land to one or more industrial
economic development projects in the City, providing jobs for residents of the City, generating
significant private financial investment in the City and creating other economic benefits for the
City; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA anticipates entering into a development agreement (the
“Development Agreement”) with the City and FCA US, LLC (the “Company”) relating to the
construction by the Company of a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant
located at Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Development Agreement, the DBRA will assist
the Company with the assembly of 200 acres of market-ready land to support the Company’s
operations at the Project site for Project-related activities such as employee parking, trailer
marshalling, and finished vehicle storage; and
WHEREAS, the City is the owner of certain vacant parcels of land (the “Parcels”)
comprising the sites described on the attached Exhibits A-1 through A-5 (each individually a
“Site” and collectively, the “Sites”) which Sites are in the vicinity of the Project site; and
WHEREAS, certain streets and alleys adjacent to the Parcels have been previously vacated
or will be vacated in connection with the Project (all such heretofore or hereinafter vacated streets
and alleys, the “Streets and Alleys”), including as may be necessary and so elected by DBRA any
portion of those Streets and Alleys described in Exhibit A-6; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Development Agreement, the DBRA has agreed to
purchase the Sites, including any and all right, title and interest in any then vacated Streets and

 Alleys (collectively, the “City Property,” which City Property, to the extent not otherwise
described, shall include the City’s fee interests within the boundaries described in Exhibit A-7)
from the City, for subsequent site preparation activities by the DBRA and conveyance to and
development by the Company; and
WHEREAS, in order to secure certain privately owned properties for the Project, the City
and the DBRA and the DBRA and The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(the “EDC”) have entered into a series a related agreements with Fodale Group and Associates,
Lynch Road Land, LLC and Trident Huber, LLC relating to the sale of certain properties owned
by the DBRA, the City, and the EDC (collectively the “Soave Agreements”), the sale proceeds of
which will be deposited into a Site Prep Escrow (as defined the Soave Agreements) and used in
accordance with the terms of the Soave Agreements; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA, the EDC and the City shall share the sale proceeds from the Soave
Agreements remaining in the Site Prep Escrow in the manner described herein; and
WHEREAS, in recognition of the benefits conferred to the City and its residents and
taxpayers, the City Council of the City (the “City Council”) has determined that the conveyance
of the City Property for the Project is in the best interest, and the City has agreed to transfer the
City Property to the DBRA, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7(3) of Act 381, the City may transfer the City Property
to the DBRA anticipation of payment of the Purchase Price (as defined below) by the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, the City Council, by resolution dated May ___, 2019, attached hereto as
Exhibit B, has authorized entering into this Agreement and the City and the DBRA have
determined that entering into this Agreement (i) is consistent with the public purposes and
responsibilities of the DBRA, and (ii) is in the best interests of the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the covenants
and agreements hereinafter contained, it is mutually agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
1.01 Sale. Subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, the DBRA
agrees to purchase and the City agrees to convey the City Property for the Purchase Price (as
defined below). The DBRA may request, from time to time, the conveyance of all or a portion of
the City Property and, promptly following such request, such conveyance shall be made by one or
more quit claim deeds executed by the City in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.
1.02 Purchase Price. The “Purchase Price” shall be an amount up to Nine Hundred
Sixty-Five Thousand Ninety-Three ($965,093) and 00/100 Dollars, based on “land value”
assigned to each Parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor, as reflected in the 2018 City property tax
records . The Purchase Price shall be paid to the City pursuant to the terms of a promissory note,
executed by the DBRA for the benefit of the City (the “Promissory Note”), which Promissory
Note shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the City. The Promissory Note shall be payable
solely from tax increment revenues (the “TIR”) captured by the DBRA pursuant to a brownfield

 redevelopment plan and Act 381 Work Plan relating to the Project; provided, however that such
repayment shall be subordinate to (i) the repayment of obligations of the DBRA to the City and
the Michigan Strategic Fund on account of loans anticipated to be made by the City and MSF to
DBRA for the Project and (ii) disbursements permitted by Act 381 and/or applicable DBRA or
Michigan Strategic Fund guidelines for administrative fees, state and/or local revolving fund
contributions, and other similar purposes. The City acknowledges and agrees that in the event the
TIR remaining after the repayment of the above referenced payment obligations and permitted
disbursements are not sufficient to pay the Purchase Price in full, the Promissory Note shall be
non-recourse to the.
1.03 Title Commitment. The DBRA, at its option, may obtain a commitment for an
owner's title insurance policy issued by a responsible title insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Michigan to insure the DBRA’s title to any City Property, subject only to
such conditions and exceptions as are provided for herein and reasonably acceptable to the DBRA.
The cost of such title commitment and a policy issued pursuant to it, if any, shall be paid by the
DBRA. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event DBRA
determines, upon examination of the above-referenced title commitments, that a quiet title action
(a “QTA”) is necessary or desirable in order to provide insurable title to any Parcel to the
Company, the DBRA is hereby authorized to transfer such Parcel or Parcels to the Detroit Land
Bank Authority (“DLBA”) on an interim basis solely for the purpose of carrying out a QTA with
respect to the affected Parcel or Parcels. Further, upon the DBRA’s election, the City agrees to
transfer any Parcel or Parcels as indicated by the DBRA directly to the DLBA for purposes of
carrying out a QTA, and such Parcel or Parcels shall be conveyed to the DBRA following the
conclusion of such QTA.
1.04 Payment of Miscellaneous Expenses. The DBRA shall be responsible for recording
and paying any fees for recording the quit claim deed and any other documents that the City
determines must be recorded in connection with the transfer and development of the City Property.
DBRA, at its option, may have the Company pay the costs contemplated by this Section 1.04.
1.05 Condition of City Property. The DBRA shall accept the City Property "AS IS",
without any representation by or warranty from the City as to the condition of the Property.
ARTICLE II
2.01. Development. The DBRA shall transfer the City Property to the Company in
accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement.
2.02 Certificate of Completion. Upon the Company’s delivery to the DBRA of the
Operations Notice and recording of the Certificate of Completion (each as defined in the
Development Agreement) pursuant to Section 10.01 of the Development Agreement and notice to
the City of such delivery, the DBRA’s obligations pursuant to this Agreement shall been deemed
satisfied, and the parties shall have no further obligations hereunder, except as provided in the
Promissory Note described in Section 1.02 of this Agreement.

 ARTICLE III
3.01 Termination of Development Agreement Prior to Conveyance to DBRA. If, prior
to the City’s conveyance of any City Property to the DBRA, the Development Agreement is
canceled or terminated for any reason whatsoever, the City may cancel this Agreement, whereupon
the DBRA shall have no further rights and the City shall have no further obligations hereunder
with respect to the City Property not yet conveyed to the DBRA. Within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice from the City of such cancellation, the DBRA shall acknowledge such
cancellation and the termination of the DBRA’s rights and the City’s obligations hereunder with
respect to the City Property not yet conveyed to the DBRA. In the event that the DBRA fails to
acknowledge such cancellation and the termination in accordance with this Section 3.01, the
DBRA hereby irrevocably appoints the City as its attorney-in-fact with power to execute any and
all documents necessary to acknowledge such cancellation and the termination, including but not
limited to a quit claim deed from the DBRA conveying to the City any and all right, title, and
interest in and to the not yet conveyed City Property.
3.02 Termination of Development Agreement Prior to Conveyance to Company. If,
prior to the DBRA’s conveyance of any City Property to the Company, the Development
Agreement is canceled or terminated for any reason whatsoever, the DBRA shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of written notice from the City, convey the not yet conveyed City Property
back to the City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City the DBRA’s interest in such City
Property. In the event that the DBRA fails to convey the not yet conveyed City Property and
assign its interest in such City Property in accordance with this Section 3.02, the DBRA hereby
appoints the City its attorney-in-fact, with full power and authority to execute any and all
documents necessary or convenient to convey such City Property by quitclaim deed from the
DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the DBRA’s interest in such City Property to the City.
3.03 Election by Company not to Receive City Property. In the event that the Company
elects, pursuant to the Development Agreement, not to accept any portion of the City Property
after such City Property has been conveyed by the City to the DBRA and before such City Property
is conveyed to the Company, the DBRA shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice
from the City, convey such City Property back to the City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City
the DBRA’s interest in such City Property. In the event that the DBRA fails to convey such City
Property and assign its interest in such City Property in accordance with this Section 3.03, the
DBRA hereby appoints the City its attorney-in-fact, with full power and authority to execute any
and all documents necessary or convenient to convey such City Property by quitclaim deed from
the DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the DBRA’s interest in such City Property to the City.
Any City Property not requested to be reconveyed to the City pursuant to the foregoing may be
conveyed by the DBRA to a party other than Company in connection with an alternative
development plan upon the prior written consent of the PDD Director.
3.04 Failure to Provide Operations Notice Subsequent to Conveyance. In the event of
the Project Default (as defined in the Development Agreement), the DBRA shall, within thirty (30)
days after receipt of written notice from the City, exercise its rights under Section 11.03 of the
Development Agreement in accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement. In the

 event that the DBRA exercises a remedy under the Development Agreement that includes the
exercise of reversionary rights for all or a portion of the City Property, the DBRA shall, within
thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the City, convey such City Property back to the
City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City the DBRA’s interest in such City Property. In the
event that the DBRA fails to convey such City Property and assign its interest in such City Property
in accordance with this Section 3.04, the DBRA hereby appoints the City its attorney-in-fact, with
full power and authority to execute any and all documents necessary or convenient to convey such
City Property by quitclaim deed from the DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the DBRA’s
interest in such City Property to the City. Any City Property not requested to be reconveyed to the
City pursuant to the foregoing may be conveyed by the DBRA to a party other than Company in
connection with an alternative development plan upon the prior written consent of the PDD
Director.
3.05 Remedies. The rights and remedies provided to the City in Sections 3.01, 3.02,
3.03 and 3.04 hereof shall be cumulative of all other remedies at law or in equity, and shall not be
the exclusive remedy of the City against the DBRA for default by the DBRA under this Agreement.
In the event of the City breaches any of its obligations under this Agreement, then, after reasonable
notice and opportunity to cure, the DBRA shall have the right solely to seek injunctive relief,
specific performance or other equitable remedies for the City’s breach of this Agreement, and in
no event and under no circumstances shall the DBRA be entitled to monetary damages.
ARTICLE IV
4.01 Independent Contractors. The relationship of the City and the DBRA is, and shall
continue to be, an independent contractor relationship and no liability or benefits such as workers'
compensation, pension rights or liabilities, insurance rights or liabilities or other provisions of
liabilities arising out of or relating to a contractor for hire or employer/employee relationship shall
arise or accrue to either party or either party's agents or employees with respect to the City as a
result of this Agreement or the Development Agreement.
4.02 Mutual Cooperation. The parties acknowledge that mutual cooperation will be
required to accomplish the intent and objectives of this Agreement, and therefore agree to
cooperate mutually in the development of the City Property in order to best serve the respective
interests of the public, the City and the DBRA.
ARTICLE V
5.01 Soave Agreements. If, upon the expiration of the Site Prep Escrow, as described in
the Soave Agreements, there are any sale proceeds remaining in the Site Prep Escrow, such
remaining sale proceeds shall be distributed by the DBRA to each of the City, DBRA and EDC in
a manner that is proportionate to the value of the property transferred by each of the City, DBRA
and the EDC under the Soave Agreements.

 ARTICLE VI
6.01 No Individual Liability. No official or employee of the City shall be personally
liable to the DBRA or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the City of
any of the terms of this Agreement. No official or employee of the DBRA shall be personally
liable to the City or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the DBRA of
any of the terms of this Agreement.
6.02 Conflict of Interest. No officer or employee of the City or the DBRA shall have
any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement, nor shall any such official or employee
participate in any decision relating to this Agreement which affects his or her personal interest or
the interest of any corporation, partnership or association in which he or she is directly or indirectly
interested.
7.01 Fair Employment Practices. In accordance with the United States Constitution and
all federal legislation and regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment
opportunity, including but not limited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352, 78
STAT. 252) and United States Department of Justice Regulations (28 C.F.R. Part 42) issued
pursuant to the title, and in accordance with the Michigan Constitution and all state laws and
regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment opportunity, including but
not limited to the Michigan Civil Rights Act (1976 PA 220), the DBRA agrees that it will not
discriminate against any person, employee, consultant or applicant for employment, training,
education, or apprenticeship connected directly or indirectly with the performance of this
Agreement with respect to his or her hire, promotion, job assignment, tenure, terms, conditions or
privileges of employment or hire because of his (her) religion, race, color, creed, national origin,
age, sex, height, weight, marital status, public benefit status, sexual orientation or handicap that is
unrelated to the individual's ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position. The DBRA
recognizes the right of the United States and the State of Michigan to seek judicial enforcement of
the foregoing covenants against discrimination against itself or its subcontractors.
Breach of the terms and conditions of this section may be regarded as a material breach of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
8.01 Notices. When either party desires to give notice to the other in connection with
and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such notice shall be given by certified mail
and shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, and such notice shall be addressed as follows:
For the City:
City of Detroit Planning and Development Department
Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue
8th Floor

 Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: Director
With a copy to:
City of Detroit Law Department
Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue
5th Floor
Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: Corporation Counsel
For the DBRA:
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: Authorized Agent
With a copy to:
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: General Counsel
or such other address with respect to either such party as that party may, from time to time,
designate in writing and forward to the other as provided herein.
8.02 Force Majeure. In the event that the City or DBRA shall be delayed, hindered in,
or prevented from the performance of any act required hereunder by reason of strike, lock-outs,
labor troubles, inability to procure materials, failure of power, riots, insurrections, acts of terror,
acts of war, the failure or default of the other party, or for other reasons beyond their control, then
performance of such acts shall be excused for the period of the delay and the period for the
performance of any such act shall be extended for a period equivalent to the period of such delay.
8.03 Amendments. The City or the DBRA may consider it in its best interest to modify
or to extend a term or condition of this Agreement. Any such extension or modification, which is
mutually agreed upon by the City and the DBRA, shall be incorporated in written amendments to
this Agreement. Unless otherwise stated in the amendment, such amendments shall not invalidate
this Agreement, nor relieve or release the City or the DBRA from any of its obligations hereunder.
8.04 Merger Clause. This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement and shall
supersede all prior agreements and understandings both written and oral between the parties with
respect to the subject matter and the City Property.

 8.05 Provisions Not Merged With Deed. No provision of this Agreement is intended to
or shall be merged by reason of any deed transferring title to the City Property from the City to the
DBRA or from the DBRA to the City.
8.06 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, and such counterparts shall constitute one and the same agreement.
8.07 Compliance with Applicable Law. The parties agree to comply with all applicable
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, other laws and requirements now in
effect or hereinafter enacted, including but not limited to City of Detroit Executive Orders Nos.
2016-1 and 2014-5, if applicable, and if necessary, shall execute and deliver such supplementary
documents and agreements as are necessary to meet said requirements.
8.08 Michigan Law. This Agreement is being entered into and executed in the State of
Michigan, and all questions with respect to the construction of this Agreement and the rights and
liabilities of the parties hereunder shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of the laws
of the State of Michigan and, where applicable, Federal law.
8.09
Agreement.

Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to all provisions of this

8.10 Non-Waiver. No waiver at any time of any provision or condition of this
Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any of the other provisions or conditions hereof, nor
shall any waiver of any provision or condition be construed as a right to subsequent waiver of the
same provisions or conditions.
8.11 Effective Date. The “Effective Date” of this Agreement shall be the date of
execution hereof.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the DBRA by and through their duly authorized
officers and representatives, have executed this Agreement on the date first above written.
CITY
OF
DETROIT
BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
a Michigan public authority and body corporate
By: _________________________________
Name:
Its: Authorized Agent
By: _________________________________
Name:
Its: Authorized Agent
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF WAYNE

)
) ss.
)

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____ day of ____________,
2018,
by
____________________________________
and
___________________________________, each an Authorized Agent of the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan public body authority and body corporate, on
its behalf.
____________________________________
Notary Public, _________ County, Michigan
Acting in Wayne County Michigan
My Commission expires: ______________

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
DBRA Counsel
By:________________________________
Rebecca A. Navin, Esq.

 CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation acting by
and through its Planning and Development
Department
By: _____________________________
Maurice Cox, Director
STATE OF MICHIGAN
)ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE

)
)

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on ___________________, 2018,
by Maurice Cox, the Director of the Planning and Development Department on behalf of the City
of Detroit, a municipal corporation.
____________________________________
Notary Public, Wayne County, Michigan
My commission expires:
Approved as to form:
________________________________
Name:___________________________
Title:____________________________
Authorized by City Council resolution adopted ___________________________.
This Instrument Drafted by:
Rebecca Navin, Esq.
500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

 EXHIBIT A-1
Site 1
Parcel ID

ADDRESS

21044048.

3911 ST JEAN

21044036.
21044028.

3991 ST JEAN
4139 ST JEAN

21044062.

3827 ST JEAN

21044061.

3833 ST JEAN

21044060.

3839 ST JEAN

21044059.

3843 ST JEAN

21044057.

3857 ST JEAN

21044056.

3863 ST JEAN

21044055.

3867 ST JEAN

21044053.

3881 ST JEAN

21044052.

3887 ST JEAN

21044051.

3893 ST JEAN

21044050.

3899 ST JEAN

21044049.

3905 ST JEAN

21044047.

3917 ST JEAN

21044046.

3923 ST JEAN

21044045.

3929 ST JEAN

21044044.

3935 ST JEAN

21044043.

3941 ST JEAN

21044042.

3947 ST JEAN

21044038.
21044037.
21044035.
21044034.

3981 ST JEAN
3987 ST JEAN
3997 ST JEAN
4103 ST JEAN

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
W ST JEAN 79 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 65 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 66 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 67 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 68 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 70 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 71 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 72 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 74 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 75 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 76 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 77 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 78 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 80 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 81 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 82 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 83 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 84 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 85 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140

Exhibits – Page 1 of 21

 21044033.
21044032.
21044031.
21044030.
21044029.
21044027.
21044025.
21044024.
21044023.
21044022.
21044021.
21044020.
21044019.
21044016.
21044015.
21044014.
21044012.
21044011.
21044010.
21044009.
21044008.
21044007.
21044006.
21044005.
21044004.
21044003.
21044002.
21044001.
21044000.

4109 ST JEAN
4117 ST JEAN
4121 ST JEAN
4127 ST JEAN
4135 ST JEAN
4145 ST JEAN
4157 ST JEAN
4163 ST JEAN
4169 ST JEAN
4177 ST JEAN
4183 ST JEAN
4189 ST JEAN
4193 ST JEAN
4413 ST JEAN
4415 ST JEAN
4425 ST JEAN
4437 ST JEAN
4441 ST JEAN
4447 ST JEAN
4455 ST JEAN
4461 ST JEAN
4467 ST JEAN
4471 ST JEAN
4479 ST JEAN
4485 ST JEAN
4491 ST JEAN
4497 ST JEAN
4503 ST JEAN
4509 ST JEAN

21043982.

4669 ST JEAN

21043981.

4677 ST JEAN

21043980.

4679 ST JEAN

21043979.

4687 ST JEAN

21043992.

4607 ST JEAN

21043991.

4613 ST JEAN

21043989.

4625 ST JEAN

21043988.

4631 ST JEAN

21043987.

4639 ST JEAN

W ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 9 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 10 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 9 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 10 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 4 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 31 X 140
W ST JEAN 3 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 31 X 140
W ST JEAN 2 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 31 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 31.44 X 140
W ST JEAN 14 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 13 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 11 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 10 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 9 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140

Exhibits – Page 2 of 21

 21043986.

4645 ST JEAN

21043985.

4651 ST JEAN

21043984.

4657 ST JEAN

21044018.

4199 ST JEAN

21043999.

4513 ST JEAN

21043978.

4697 ST JEAN

21043998.
21043997.
21043996.

4519 ST JEAN
4527 ST JEAN
4533 ST JEAN

21044041.

3959 ST JEAN

21043983.

4663 ST JEAN

21044017.
21043995.
21043994.

4403 ST JEAN
4543 ST JEAN
4555 ST JEAN

21044039.

3973 ST JEAN

21043993.

4561 ST JEAN

21002599.

11238 E WARREN

21002600.

11232 E WARREN

21043977.

4711 ST JEAN

21002597.

11250 E WARREN

21002598.

11244 E WARREN

21044054.

3873 ST JEAN

21044058.

3851 ST JEAN

21044026.
21044013.

4151 ST JEAN
4431 ST JEAN

21043990.

4621 ST JEAN

21044040.

3963 ST JEAN

W ST JEAN 8 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 7 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 6 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 35.30 X 140
W ST JEAN THAT NLY PART OF 19 LYG N & ADJ TO LOT 14 OF
FINNS SUB ALSO LYG W OF ST JEAN AVE BG 35.03 FT FTG PLAT OF
THE SUB OF THE ST ST JEAN FARM L1 P214 PLATS, W C R 21/525
35.03 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W C R 21/550
35.17 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, W C R 21/546 37 X 140
W ST JEAN 2 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, W C R 21/546 37 X 140
W ST JEAN 3 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, W C R 21/546 36.86 X 140
W ST JEAN S 14.03 FT 87 86 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75
PLATS, W C R 21/537 42.08 X 140
W ST JEAN 5 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 31 X 140
W ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 48.14 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 MORAN SUB L35 P27 PLATS, WCR 21/547 55.43 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 SCHEPKE SUB L34 P78 PLATS, W C R 21/576 55.43 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 N 5.75 FT 88
LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R 21/537 59.19 X
140
W ST JEAN 7 THRU 1 SELLING & MAYS SUB L46 P1 PLATS, W C R
21/685 221.72 X 140
S E WARREN S 74 FT OF 16 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W
C R 21/550 30 X 74
S- WARREN -E S 74 FT OF LOT 15JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17
PLATS, W C R 21/550 30 X 74
W ST JEAN S 46' 19 S 46' 18 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 21/550 46 X
60
S-E WARREN N 28 FT OF S 74 FT 19 N 28 FT OF S 74 FT 18 JOHN H
WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W C R 21/550 60 X 28
S WARREN-E S 74 FT 17 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W C R
21/550 30 X 74
W ST JEAN 73 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 69 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R
21/537 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 X 140
W ST JEAN 12 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, W C R
21/548 32 X 140
W ST JEAN S 22.30 FT OF 88 N 14.02 FT OF 87 LIEBERMANS
HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, W C R 21/537 36.32 X 140

Exhibits – Page 3 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-2
Site 1A
Parcel ID

ADDRESS

21043977.

4711 ST JEAN

21002597.

11250 E WARREN

21002598.

11244 E WARREN

21002599.

11238 E WARREN

21002600.

11232 E WARREN

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
W ST JEAN S 46' 19 S 46' 18 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 21/550 46 X
60
S-E WARREN N 28 FT OF S 74 FT 19 N 28 FT OF S 74 FT 18 JOHN H
WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W C R 21/550 60 X 28
S WARREN-E S 74 FT 17 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W C R
21/550 30 X 74
S E WARREN S 74 FT OF 16 JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, W
C R 21/550 30 X 74
S- WARREN -E S 74 FT OF LOT 15JOHN H WALSHS SUB L28 P17
PLATS, W C R 21/550 30 X 74

Exhibits – Page 4 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-3
Site 8
Parcel ID

ADDRESS

21000721-54

2115 ST JEAN

21044150.

2239 ST JEAN

21044115.

2941 ST JEAN

21044108.

2989 ST JEAN

21044095.

11235 GOETHE

21044166.

2139 ST JEAN

21044165.

2149 ST JEAN

21044163.

2161 ST JEAN

21044162.

2167 ST JEAN

21044160.

2179 ST JEAN

21044159.

2185 ST JEAN

21044158.

2191 ST JEAN

21044157.

2197 ST JEAN

21044156.

2203 ST JEAN

21044155.

2209 ST JEAN

21044154.

2215 ST JEAN

21044153.

2221 ST JEAN

21044152.

2225 ST JEAN

21044151.

2231 ST JEAN

21044149.

2245 ST JEAN

21044148.

2251 ST JEAN

21044145.

2511 ST JEAN

21044144.

2515 ST JEAN

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
N KERCHEVAL 8 HUTTON & NALLS SUB OF LOT 5 L23 P82 PLATS, W
C R 21/349 40.04 X 115A
W ST JEAN 2 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 45 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 1 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN N 29.57 FT 11 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575
29.57 X 150
W ST JEAN S 15 FT 5 N 15 FT 6 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
W C R 21/349 30 X 150
W ST JEAN S 15 FT 4 N 15 FT 5 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
W C R 21/349 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 2 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, W C R 21/349 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 1 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, W C R 21/349 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 12 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 11 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 10 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 9 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 8 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 7 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 6 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 5 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 4 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 3 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 1 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367 30
X 150
W ST JEAN 1 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 7 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 8 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150

Exhibits – Page 5 of 21

 21044143.

2521 ST JEAN

21044142.

2527 ST JEAN

21044141.

2533 ST JEAN

21044140.

2539 ST JEAN

21044139.

2545 ST JEAN

21044138.

2551 ST JEAN

21044137.

2557 ST JEAN

21044136.

2563 ST JEAN

21044135.

2567 ST JEAN

21044134.

2573 ST JEAN

21044133.

2581 ST JEAN

21044132.

2587 ST JEAN

21044131.

2591 ST JEAN

21044130.

2597 ST JEAN

21044126.

2623 ST JEAN

21044125.

2629 ST JEAN

21044124.

2635 ST JEAN

21044123.

2641 ST JEAN

21044122.

2647 ST JEAN

21044121.

2653 ST JEAN

21044120.

2657 ST JEAN

21044118.

2923 ST JEAN

21044117.

2929 ST JEAN

21044116.

2935 ST JEAN

21044114.

2947 ST JEAN

W ST JEAN 9 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 10 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 11 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 12 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 13 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 14 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 15 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 16 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 17 DWYER, SCULLIN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 18 DWYER, SCULLIN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 19 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 20 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 21 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 22 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 26 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 27 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 28 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 29 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 30 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 31 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 32 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 42 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 43 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 44 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 46 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150

Exhibits – Page 6 of 21

 21044113.

2951 ST JEAN

21044110.

2977 ST JEAN

21044107.

2995 ST JEAN

21044106.

3001 ST JEAN

21044105.

3007 ST JEAN

21044104.

3013 ST JEAN

21044103.

3021 ST JEAN

21044102.

3025 ST JEAN

21044101.

3033 ST JEAN

21044100.

3039 ST JEAN

21044099.

3043 ST JEAN

21044098.

3049 ST JEAN

21044097.

3057 ST JEAN

21044094.
21044093.
21044092.
21044091.
21044090.
21044089.
21044088.
21044087.
21044086.
21044085.

3407 ST JEAN
3413 ST JEAN
3421 ST JEAN
3427 ST JEAN
3433 ST JEAN
3439 ST JEAN
3445 ST JEAN
3451 ST JEAN
3457 ST JEAN
3463 ST JEAN

21044084.

3469 ST JEAN

21044083.

3475 ST JEAN

21044082.

3481 ST JEAN

21044081.

3485 ST JEAN

21044080.

3493 ST JEAN

21044079.

3499 ST JEAN

21044078.

3505 ST JEAN

W ST JEAN 47 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 51 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 2 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 3 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 4 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 5 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 6 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 7 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 8 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 9 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 10 SEYMOUR & TROESTER EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 11 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 12 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 10 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 9 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 8 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 7 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 6 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 5 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 4 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 3 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 2 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 1 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/575 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 88 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 87 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 86 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 85 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 84 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 83 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 82 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150

Exhibits – Page 7 of 21

 21044077.

3511 ST JEAN

21044076.

3517 ST JEAN

21044075.

3521 ST JEAN

21044074.

3527 ST JEAN

21044073.

3535 ST JEAN

21044072.

3539 ST JEAN

21044071.

3547 ST JEAN

21044070.

3551 ST JEAN

21044069.

3559 ST JEAN

21044068.

3563 ST JEAN

21044067.

3569 ST JEAN

21044066.

3575 ST JEAN

21044065.

3581 ST JEAN

21044064.

3589 ST JEAN

21044161.

2171 ST JEAN

21044096.

3063 ST JEAN

21044146.

2505 ST JEAN

21044109.

2983 ST JEAN

21044129.

2605 ST JEAN

21044128.

2611 ST JEAN

21044127.

2617 ST JEAN

21044119.

2665 ST JEAN

21044167.

2131 ST JEAN

21044164.

2155 ST JEAN

21044111.

2969 ST JEAN

W ST JEAN 81 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 80 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 79 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 78 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 77 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 76 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 75 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 74 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 73 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 72 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 71 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 70 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 69 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 68 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
30 X 150
W ST JEAN 13 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, W C R 21/367
31.50 X 150
W ST JEAN 13 SEYMOUR & TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
PLATS, WCR 21/368 31.50 X 150
W ST JEAN 6 AND N 6.60 FT OF VAC WATERLOO ST LYG S OF & ADJ 6
DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R 21/361 36.6
IRREG
W ST JEAN 52 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 42.32 X 150
W ST JEAN 23 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 24 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 25 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN 33 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R
21/361 30 X 150
W ST JEAN S 15 FT 6 7 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, W C R
21/349 45 X 150
W ST JEAN 3 N 15 FT 4 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, W C R
21/349 45 X 150
W ST JEAN 50 N 15 FT 49 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96
PLATS, W C R 21/361 45 X 150

Exhibits – Page 8 of 21

 21044147.

2257 ST JEAN

21044063.

3597 ST JEAN

21044112.

2965 ST JEAN

21000925-43

2905 ST JEAN

21001116-39

11256 MACK

21001141.

11234 MACK

21001140.

11244 MACK

21000889905

11262
CHARLEVOIX

W ST JEAN S 23.40 FT 3 2 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96
PLATS, W C R 21/361 53.40 X 150
W ST JEAN 67 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
50.65 IRREG
W ST JEAN S 15 FT 49 48 DWYER, SCULLEN & ONEIL SUB L24 P96
PLATS, W C R 21/361 45 X 150
N CHARLEVOIX 38 THRU 41 EXC CHARLEVOIX AVE AS WD DWYER
SCULLEN & O'NEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R 21/361 150 X 115.43A
S MACK 66&65 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
40.81 X 100
S MACK 61 THRU 58 HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
80 X 100
S MACK 64 THRU 62 HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, W C R 21/524
60 X 100
S CHARLEVOIX 35&34 S 4.94 FT VAC CHARLEVOIX ADJ DWYER
SCULLEN & O'NEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, W C R 21/361 150 X 64.94

Exhibits – Page 9 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-4
Site 8A
21000717.
21043135.002L
21000715.

21042676-93

11231
KERCHEVAL
2124
BENITEAU
11201
KERCHEVAL
11131
KERCHEVAL

N KERCHEVAL 13 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, W C R
21/349 30.02 X 123A
E BENITEAU N 54.27 FT 17&16 HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
W C R 21/349 54.27 X 70
N KERCHEVAL 17&16 EXC N 54.27 FT HUTTON & NALLS SUB L23 P82
PLATS, W C R 21/349 70.06 IRREG
E LILLIBRIDGE N 5.32 FT ON W LINE BG N 1.12 FT ON E LINE 109 108
THRU 88 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ CHARESTS SUB L12 P55 PLATS, W C R
21/360 S 183.97FT OF W 105.10FT OL 5 LYG N & ADJ KERCHEVAL SUB
OF ST JEAN FARM L1 P214 PLATS, W C R 21/525 31 THRU 25 HUTTON
& NA

Exhibits – Page 10 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-5
Site 7A-2
21043944.

5066 ST JEAN

E ST JEAN 10 THRU 15 22 THRU 25 32 THRU 35 AND THAT PT OF 28
THRU 31 BG E 59.31 FT ON S LINE & E 13 FT ON N LINE & VAC
GLADWIN & ALLEYS ADJ S J BLOOMFIELDS SUB L31 P93 PLATS, W C
R 21/563 51456 SQ FT

Exhibits – Page 11 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-6
Site 7C

21003300.001

11031
SHOEMAKER

21003300.002L

11081
SHOEMAKER

N SHOEMAKER 7 THRU 12THOMAS L RICE SHOEMAKERS SUB L38
P35 PLATS, W C R 21/572 ALSO THAT PT OF SUB OF LOTS 25 & 26 OF
THE ST JEAN FARM, PC 26, ALSO PT OF PC 688 DESC AS FOLS BEG AT
A PTE IN THE N LINE OF SHOEMAKER AVE 66 FT WD S 62D 42M 48S
W 415.97 FT FR
N SHOEMAKER PT OF LOTS 3 THRU 5SUB OF LOTS 25 & 26 OF THE ST
JEAN FARM, PC 26 L217 P522 DEEDS W C R 21/587 DESC AS FOLS BG
AT THE INTSEC OF THE W LINE OF ST JEAN AVE 66 FT WD & THE N
LINE OF SHOEMAKER AVE 66 FT WD TH S 62D 42M 48S W 415.97 FT
TH N 25D 53

Exhibits – Page 12 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-7
All of the following parts of vacated streets and alleys further described as:
1) St. Jean Widening on the west side of St. Jean from south line of Warren Avenue, 105 feet
wide, to Canfield Avenue, 60 feet wide, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County,
Michigan described as: part of Lots 1 and 19, both inclusive, and the alley adjoining said Lots
of “JOHN H. WALSH'S SUB’N” of the southerly 305.98 feet of Out Lot 22 Sub’n of St.
Jean Farm, P.C. 26, St Clair Heights Village, (now city of Detroit), Wayne County, Michigan
as recorded in Liber 28 of Plats, Page 17, Wayne County Records; part of Lots 1 through 14,
both inclusive, of “HAN’S A. CHRISTIANSEN’S SUBDIVISION” of part of P.C. 688 and
of Lot 21 plat of the Sub’n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the westerly part of P.C. 26,
Village of St. Clair Heights, Township of Grosse Pointe, (now City of Detroit) Wayne
County, Michigan as recorded In Liber 30 of Plats, Page 71, Wayne County Records; part of
Lots 1 through 7, both inclusive, of “SELLING AND MAY’S SUBDIVISION” of N. 1/2 of
Lot 20 Plat of the Sub'n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the westerly part of P.C. 26,
City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 46 of Plats, Page 1, Wayne
County Records; part of Lot l of “SCHEPKE SUBDIVISION” of N.1/2 of N.1/2 of S.1/2 of
Lot 20 Plat of the Sub’n. of the St. Jean Farm, being the westerly part of P.C. 26, Village of
St. Clair Heights, Township of Gratiot, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 34 of
Plats, Page 78, Wayne County Records; part of Lot 1 of “MORAN SUBDIVISION” of S.1/2
of N.1/2 of S.1/2 of Lot 20 Plat of the Sub'n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the
westerly part of P.C. 26, Village of St. Clair Heights, Township of Gratiot, Wayne County
Records, as recorded In Liber 35 of Plats, Page 27, Wayne County Records; part of Lots 1
through 3, both inclusive, of “BEAUFAIT’S SUBDIVISION” of S.1/2 of S.1/2 of Lot 20
Subdivision of the westerly part of St. Jean Farm, P.C. 26, T.1S., R.12 E. St. Clair Heights,
Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 30, of Plats, Page 4, Wayne County Records;
part of Lot 19 of “PLAT OF THE SUBDIVISION OF THE ST. JEAN FARM (SO
CALLED)” being the westerly part of private claim 26, In the Township Grosse Pointe,
Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 1 of Plats, Page 214, Wayne County Records,
lying southerly of and adjacent to Lot 1 of said “BEAUFAIT’S SUBDIVISION” and lying
northerly of and adjacent to Lot 14 of “FINN'S SUB. OF PART OF LOT 19” St. Jean Farm,
P.C. 26, T.S., R.12E., Saint Clair Heights, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 29
of Plats, Page 72, Wayne County Records; Lots 1 through 14 both inclusive of said “FINN’S
SUB. OF LOT 19”, of St. Jean Farm, P.C. 26, T.1.S., R.11E.,Saint Clair Heights, Wayne
County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 29 of Plats, on Page 72, Wayne County Records;
part of Lots 11 through 14, both inclusive, of “FINN’S SUB. OF LOT 18” on the St. Jean
Farm, Private Claim 26 T.1S., R.11E Village of St Clair Heights (Now Detroit) as
recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records, and being more
particularly described as:
Beginning at the Intersection of the southerly line of Warren Ave. (105 ft. wd.)
and the westerly line of St. Jean Ave. (66 ft. wd.); Thence S25°55'32"E along the
westerly line of said St. Jean Ave. 1613.51 feet to the northerly line of Canfield Ave. (60
Exhibits – Page 13 of 21

 ft. wd.); Thence S65°38'18"W along the northerly line of said Canfield Ave. 17.01 feet;
Thence N25°55'32"W 1608.04 feet; Thence N70°56'12"W 7.07 feet to the southerly line
of said Warren Ave.; Thence N64°0326"E along the southerly line of said Warren Ave.
22.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
2) St. Jean Widening on the west side of St. Jean from south line of Canfield Avenue, 60
feet wide, to the north line of Mack Avenue, variable width, being land in the City of
Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: part of Lots 1 through 8, both inclusive,
"Finn's Subdivision of Lot 18 on the St Jean Farm P.C. 26 Village of St. Clair Heights
(Now Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records; and
part of Lots 1 through 14, both inclusive "Finn's Subdivision of Lot 17 on the St Jean
Farm P.C. 26, T.1S, R.12E. Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)" as recorded in
Liber 27, Page 83 of Plats, Wayne County Records; and part of Lots 1 and 65, and alley
adjoining, and Lots 66 through 88, both inclusive "Lieberman's Homedale Subdivision of
McCracken's Subdivision of Lots 15 and 16, St Jean Farm P.C. 26, T.1S, R.12E. Village
of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 28, Page 75 of Plats, Wayne
County Records; and being more particularly described as follows:
3) Beginning at the intersection of the of the westerly line of St. Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide,
and the southerly line of Canfield Avenue, 60 feet wide; Thence S25°51'28"E along the
westerly line of said St. Jean, 1526.80 feet to the northerly line of Mack Avenue, variable
width; Thence S58°14'44"W along the northerly line of said Mack Avenue 25.89 feet;
Thence N25°46'33"W 107.57 feet; Thence N64°04'07"E 8.60 feet; Thence N25°51'28"W
1422.29 feet to the southerly line of said Canfield Avenue; Thence N65°38'18"E along
the southerly line of said Canfield Avenue, 17.01 feet to the Point Of Beginning.
4) Land dedicated for road purposes at the northeast corner of Mack, variable width and St
Jean, variable width, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan
described as: part of Lots 1 through 6, both inclusive, part of Lot 53 and part of vacated
alley adjoining "Gladwin Park Subdivision of Part of P.C. 26, North of Mack Avenue,
Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 55 of Plats,
Wayne County Records; being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwesterly corner of said Lot; Thence N25°51'28"W (N25°W
record) along the easterly line of St. Jean, 66 feet wide, 123.09 feet to a non-tangent point
of curve; Thence along a curve to the left having an arc length of 166.26 feet, a radius of
87.00 feet, a central angle of 109°29'30", a chord bearing of S80°36'16"E, and a chord
distance of 142.09 feet to a non-tangent point, also being a point on the northerly line of
Mack Avenue, variable width; Thence S44°38'55"W along the said northerly line of
Mack Avenue, 123.09 feet to the Point of Beginning.
4) Canfield Avenue, 60 feet wide from east line of St. Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide as platted,
to the east line of the north-south alley, 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean Avenue, being
land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: Lots 9 and 10 "Finn's
Exhibits – Page 14 of 21

 Subdivision of Lot 18 on the St Jean Farm P.C. 26 Village of St. Clair Heights (Now
Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records.
5) Goethe Avenue, variable width, from east line of St Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide as platted,
to the east line of the north-south alley, 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean Avenue, being
land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: Lot 36 and the south
2.83 feet on the east line, being the south 2.16 feet on the west line of Lot 11 “Larned’s
Subdivision of Lot 12 of the St. Jean Farm, Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)” as
recorded in Liber 27, Page 40 of Plats, Wayne County Records.
6) Charlevoix Avenue, 60 feet wide, from east line of St. Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide as
platted, to the east line of the north-south alley, 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean
Avenue¸ being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: all of
Lot 37, and the north 25.06 feet on the east line, being the north 25.62 feet on the west
line of Lot 36, and the south 4.94 feet on the east line being the south 4.38 feet on the
west line of Lot 38 “Dwyer, Scullen & O'Neil Subdivision of Lots J, L, and M of Richard
Lemay Est. P.C. 26 and 688, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)” as recorded in Liber 24,
Page 96 of Plats, Wayne County Records.
7) East Vernor Highway, 60 feet wide, from east line of St. Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide as
platted, to the east line of the north-south alley, 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean
Avenue, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: all of
Lot 4, and the north 6.60 feet on the east line, being the north 7.19 feet on the west line of
Lot 5, and the South 23.40 feet on the east line, being the south 22.81 feet on the west
line of Lot 3 “Dwyer, Scullen & O'Neil Subdivision of Lots J, L, and M of Richard
Lemay Est. P.C. 26 and 688, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)” as recorded in Liber 24,
Page 96 of Plats, Wayne County Records.
8) East 19 feet of east-west alley, 18 feet wide in the block bounded by Kercheval Avenue,
80 feet wide, Vernor Highway, 60 feet wide, Beniteau Avenue, 70 feet wide, and St Jean
Avenue, 66 feet wide being, land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan
described as: east 19 feet of east-west alley, 18 feet wide lying north of and adjoining the
north line of the east 19 feet of Lot 8 and lying south of and adjoining the south line of
the east 19 feet of Lot 7 “Hutton & Nall’s Subdivision of Lot 5 except School Lot, of the
Subdivision of the St. Jean Farm, part of P.C. 26, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)” as
recorded in Liber 23, Page 82 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Exhibits – Page 15 of 21

 EXHIBIT A-8

(See inserted map.)

Exhibits Page 16 of 21

Parcel
Vacation
Multifamily housing
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacation
Multifamily housing
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 26 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
To be vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
DTE Sliver
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
To be vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated
Building
Rail

Proposed Vacation
Phase 1
Phase 2

Current Footprint
Version of 25 April 2019

 EXHIBIT 
City Council Resolution

[See attached]

Exhibits Page 17 of 21

EXHIBIT C
Form of Deed
QUIT CLAIM DEED
That the City of Detroit, a Michigan public body corporate, the address of which is 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226, quit claims to City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan public authority and body corporate (the “DBRA”), the
address of which is 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, Michigan 48226, the premises
located in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described on Exhibit A attached hereto
and made a part hereof (the “Land”) for the sum of Five Hundred Thousand and 00/100
Dollars ($500,000.00), together with all appurtenances thereon together with all reversionary
interests in adjoining rights-of-way, streets, alleys and public easements, and subject to
easements and building and use restrictions of record and to the Land Agreement described
below.
This deed is given subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of Land Agreement
dated _________, entered into by the parties hereto and which is incorporated herein by
reference, none of the terms, covenants and conditions of which shall be deemed merged in this
Deed. The covenants therein recited to be covenants running with the land are hereby declared
to be covenants running with the land enforceable by the DBRA as therein set forth.
The following language is included pursuant to MCL 560.109(3) and 560.109(4), added
by 1996 PA 591, and applies only to the portion of the Property that is not platted: The Grantor
grants to the Grantee the right to make all divisions under Section 108 of the Land Division Act,
Act No 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended. This property may be located within the
vicinity of farmland or a farm operation. Generally accepted agricultural and management
practices which may generate noise, dust, odors, and other associated conditions may be used
and are protected by the Michigan Right to Farm Act.
This Deed is dated as of ________________________.
[Signatures Follow]

Exhibits – Page 18 of 21

 Grantor:
CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation
By: _____________________________
Maurice Cox
Director, Planning and Development
Department
Acknowledged before me in
County, Michigan, on
, 2017,
by Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development Department, on behalf of said municipal
corporation.
.
Notary's
Notary's
Stamp
Signature
Acting in _____________ County, Michigan

Approved by Corporation Counsel pursuant to §7.5206 of the 2012 Charter of the City of Detroit:
___________________________________
Corporation Counsel
In accordance with §18-5-4 of the Detroit City
Code, I hereby certify that proper and fair
consideration has been received by the City
pursuant to this contract.
___________________________________
Finance Director
Drafted by and return to: Rebecca A. Navin, Esq., 500 Griswold, Ste. 2200, Detroit, MI 48226
Exempt from transfer tax pursuant to MCL 207.505(h)(i) and 207.526(h)(i).

Exhibits – Page 19 of 21

 EXHIBIT A

(See Exhibit A to Land Transfer Agreement.)

Exhibits Page 20 of 21

Exhibit C
Sources of Funds
City Funding:
• Thirty-Three Million and Ninety Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($33,090,000.00) for land
assembly and site preparation activities
• Twenty Million and 00/100 Dollars ($20,000,000.00) for land assembly contingency
• Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($7,500,000.00) non-recourse
loan payable solely from TIR over for a period not to exceed thirty (30) years, at a rate of
interest not less than one percent (1%) per annum on the outstanding amount thereof (the
“City Loan”), expected to be one and sixteen one-hundredths percent (1.16%).
MSF Funding:
•

•

Grant of Thirty-Five Million 00/100 Dollars ($35,000,000.00) generally restricted to site
preparation activities and soft costs, with limited flexibility to use portions on land
acquisition with MSF approval; to be disbursed in two tranches of Fifteen Million and
00/100 Dollars ($15,000,000.00) and a third tranche of Five Million and 00/100 Dollars
($5,000,000.00), based on the satisfaction of certain milestones related to the commitment
and expenditure of funds.
Twenty Million and 00/100 Dollars ($20,000,000.00) non-recourse loan payable solely
from TIR over for a period not to exceed thirty (30) years, at a rate of interest expected to
be one and sixteen one-hundredths percent (1.16%), which will be subordinate to the City
Loan.

 CODE DBRA 19-05-262-20
LAND ASSEMBLY
TRANSACTIONS

PROJECT:

AUTHORIZATION

TO

ENTER

INTO

PURCHASE

WHEREAS, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the City
of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit (the
“City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the City
relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant (“JNAP”), located
at Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs.

WHEREAS, in order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately 200
acres of market-ready land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Project-related activities
such as employee parking, trailer marshalling, and finished vehicle storage; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff has negotiated agreements for the acquisition of nearly 215 acres
of property near the Project site, as shown on Exhibit A hereto; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff has negotiated a second set of land transactions to acquire
additional parcels required for the Project, the parties and key terms of which are described on
Exhibits B thru D and any cash consideration and diligence and other acquisition costs will be
payable from funds made available by the City to the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to negotiate and execute purchase
agreements and/or other appropriate documentation relating to the transactions described on
described on Exhibits B thru D in support of the Project; and;
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the DBRA’s purposes of promoting the
revitalization and reuse of certain properties and is otherwise consistent with its powers and
purposes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the DBRA to negotiate and execute purchase agreements and/or other appropriate
documentation relating to the transactions described on described on Exhibits B thru D in support
of the Project and not inconsistent with the terms described thereon.

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors approves DBRA’s
actions required to be undertaken in connection with the transactions set forth on Exhibits B thru
D, as well as actions reasonably required to conduct due diligence on and clear title to the
properties to be acquired pursuant thereto.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other
actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on
behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
Authorized Agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
May 8, 2019

 Exhibit A
Proiect Sites

 

MV 

9% 3W3

 

Current 5mm,
Parcels

Buildung

Rail

 

East Warren Ave





 

 







Had 

Wench 

 

 

 

MUG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hop-Id 

IA Employ" Parking

I Padang

4 Temporary Parking
Temporary Parking

7A2 Emlayu 

7C traitor Firkin;

8 Trailer Parking

8A Stormwxer Ont-noon

88 Tntler Panda;

l0 Vehxde Logiuru

I2 Vohdc Logistics

0 0.25 0.5 ml

 

 

Exhibit B
Site 6
Seller: Conner St Plaza LLC (Margarit Yahiahan)
Property: 4801 Conner (approx. 8.1 acres)
Agreement: Purchase and Sale Agreement between Seller and SIG DET LLC (DBRA to take
assignment from SIG DET LLC)
Purchase Price: $3.0 Million
Deposit: $35,000, $25,000 of which is non-refundable and may be used by Seller to offset costs
of relocating existing parking area for State of Michigan employees to neighboring property
Inspection Period: 60 days
Closing: Within 30 days following expiration of Inspection Period
Additional approvals: N/A
Other:
•
•

Property will be transferred directly to FCA
Seller to install fence boundary between remaining property owned by Seller and subject
property

 Exhibit C
Site 4
Seller: Fodale Group & Associates (Sam Foldale and Tony Soave)
Property: 12001 Mack and 12017 Mack
Agreement: Series of 3 Agreements with Seller and entities associated with Fodale, for which a
summary is attached as follows:
•
•
•

Property Exchange Agreement among DBRA, City, and Fodale (Exhibit C-1)
Property Exchange Agreement among DBRA, The Economic Development Corporation
of the City of Detroit and Trident Huber LLC (Exhibit C-2)
Purchase and Sale Agreement among DBRA, City of Detroit and Lynch Road Land LLC
(Exhibit C-3)

 Exhibit C-1
Summary of Property Exchange Agreement
With Fodale Group & Associates
Parties: City, DBRA, Fodale Group & Associates (“Fodale”)
Exchange Properties:
• Fodale Property to be acquired by DBRA:
o 12001 Mack and 12017 Mack (a/k/a Site 4 on Exhibit A for transfer to FCA)
• City Property:
o Parcels owned by City and DLBA in the area bounded by Lynch Road, Van
Dyke, Jordan, and Eldon (See Exhibit C-4)
Consideration:
• Fodale Property: $100,000
• City Property: $380,000
• QTA Cap: DBRA to cover costs of up to $50,000 to for quiet title actions on City
Property
Site Prep Escrow:
• Net sale proceeds from sale of City Property to be deposited in Site Prep Escrow at
Closing to be used as follows:
o By Fodale (for 3 years following last in time closing of the 3 related transactions
with Fodale, Lynch Road Land, LLC and Trident Huber LLC):
▪ Cost of eligible activities under the Brownfield Act, above $150,000 for
any of the 3 purchase areas
▪ Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000 total
▪ Quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (described below)
o By the City:
▪ Up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State Parcel under
Lynch Road Land Agreement
▪ Any remaining funds in escrow at the expiration of the escrow period to
be disbursed prorata to City, DBRA and EDC for sale of properties owned
by them

 Exhibit C-2
(Summary of Trident Huber Property Exchange)
Parties: The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit (“EDC”), City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, Trident Huber L.L.C. (“Trident Huber”)
Exchange Properties:
• City Property:
o Parcels located in “Area 6” of the EDC I-94 Industrial Area, as shown as Exhibit
C-4 (EDC Trident Properties)
o Subject to further negotiation and approvals, the Huber Access Property, as
shown on Exhibit C-4
• Trident Huber Property to be acquired by DBRA:
o Huber Yard Corners as shown in Exhibit B-2 (for transfer to City)
Consideration:
• $80,000/acre, estimated as follows:
o EDC Property (approximately 13.14 acres): $1,051,200
o Trident Huber Property (approximately 2.51 acres): $200,800
Site Prep Escrow:
• Net sale proceeds from sale of City Property from each of the transactions with Fodale,
Trident Huber and Lynch Road Land to be deposited in Site Prep Escrow at Closing to
be used as follows:
o By any of Fodale, Trident Huber and Lynch Road Land (for 3 years following last
in time closing of the 3 Transaction):
▪ Cost of eligible activities under the Brownfield Act, above $150,000 for
any of the 3 assembly areas
▪ Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000 total for the Fodale
assemblage area
▪ Quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (described below)
o By the City:
▪ Up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State Parcel under
Lynch Road Land Agreement
▪ Any remaining funds in escrow at the expiration of the escrow period to
be disbursed prorata to City, DBRA and EDC for sale of properties owned
by them
Other:
• DBRA to cover costs of up to $100,000 to for quiet title actions on City Property.
• In the event that the Huber Access Property is not included in the transaction, Trident
Huber shall not be obligated to transfer the Trident Huber Property, but shall have the
right to acquire the EDC Property for the above purchase price.
• EDC shall have a right of first offer on the EDC Property for five (5) years following
closing in the event Trident Huber elects to market the EDC Property for sale.

 Exhibit C-3
Summary of Purchase and Sale Agreement with
Lynch Road Land LLC
Parties: City of Detroit (“City”), DBRA, Lynch Road Land LLC (“Lynch”)
Properties to be conveyed (See Exhibit C-5):
o City owned property located at 10644 Gratiot (part of the parcel Ward 19 Item
001582.003L, consisting of existing concrete parking area and entry way off of
Conner) and 10600 Gratiot (Ward 19 Item 001584)
o To the extent acquired by DBRA, a portion of the property currently owned by the
State of Michigan located at 10780 Gratiot (Ward 19 Item 001582.002) (the
“State Parcel”)
Consideration:
• City owned property: $60,000/acre, estimated at $642,000
• State Parcel: net purchase price paid by DBRA to State to acquire the property
Site Prep Escrow:
• Net sale proceeds from sale of City Property to be deposited in Site Prep Escrow at
Closing to be used as follows:
o By the Lynch (for 3 years following last in time closing of the 3 related
transactions with Lynch, Fodale Group & Associates and Trident Huber LLC):
▪ Cost of eligible activities under the Brownfield Act, above $150,000 for
any of the 3 purchase areas
▪ Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000 total for the Fodale purchase
area
▪ Quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (described below)
o By the City:
▪ Up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State Parcel under
Lynch Road Land Agreement
▪ Any remaining funds in escrow at the expiration of the escrow period to
be disbursed prorata to City, DBRA and EDC for sale of properties owned
by them
Other:
QTA Cap: DBRA to cover costs of up to $50,000, plus any funds not expended for quiet title
actions under the Fodale Agreement to for quiet title actions on City Property

 Exhibit C-4
Exchange Properties

(Fodale and Trident)

 

 

TED FIN 150 ?i 

 

 

 

 

 

Trident: Huber Yard
Parcelgi t0 City

 

 

 

g?pii'godali 
rope les 0
.132.fo Fodaie

loan - an ac. .. 
Wham? I:
"Emu.? 1. on:
u:
LEGEVJ

must} urn Hummer-Inn Human m" 

min-"? - 
Ema?"z. i: :11:
1: i
4 If?: 1r It
. 
i' Fi?- . Trident: EDC Preperties
. Gar to Trident
Dill-Imagnum uni:

 


Trident: Huber Access Road to
Trident {if agreed)

 

 

 

mun- arm-m-

 

 

Exhibit C-5
Sale Properties

Road Land[?40
(SWOT

 

EXHIBIT D
Site 10
Parties: City, DBRA and Crown Enterprises, Inc. (“Crown”)
Description
The DBRA is acquiring the 82-acre site of the former the Budd Plant (the “Budd Plant Property”)
from Crown. The $54 million purchase price would be funded by a combination of $43.5 million
in cash consideration and other City-owned land valued at up to $10.5 million. If the swap
properties are not acceptable through due diligence, etc., the DBRA will replace the land with the
cash value identified for each property. The purchase price is subject to a $21 million increase in
the event certain conditions are not met, a portion of which may be payable by the City and DBRA
according to the terms of the development agreement with FCA.
The acquired Budd Plant Property will be used by FCA for finished vehicle parking for the new
Mack facility and JNAP.
DBRA Receives from Crown
Property
Budd Plant Property
* Subject to certain conditions.

General Address
12141 Charlevoix

Acres
82.2

Value
$54,000,000*

Crown Receives from the DBRA
City Property

General Address

Bridge area 1 & 2 near St. Anne St

Acres
1.06

Land Value
38,521

I-94 Industrial Park - Area 2

9240 Mt. Elliott

14.53

1,265,854

I-94 Industrial Park - Area 3

6445 Miller

9.74

848,549

Jefferson Conner Freud - Lycaste & Edlie

696 Hart

4.77

500,000

Trombley Triangle - Hamtramck Drive

7529 St. Aubin

4.02

325,000

18th Street Lots & Fort St

2001 W Fort St

0.84

110,000

West Grand Blvd & Toledo

3600 Toledo

3.09

310,000

Area near Lycaste/Edlie

1201 Terminal

0.25

32,670

Area near Triple Barrels

925 Clairpointe

0.24

31,363

Springwells Industrial Park

1420 Springwells Ct

28.45

2,600,000

UTS McNichols

17140 Mitchell

2.68

233,482

Van Dyke Airport Area - Industrial Land

11111 French Rd

45.58

3,970,930

12121 Mack near project area

12121 Mack

1.35

117,612

Total
See City properties as depicted on Exhibit D-1.

116.60

10,483,980

 Key Crown Enterprise deal terms
• The Budd Plant Property is being conveyed directly to FCA.
• This agreement becomes effective 7 days following the City Council and DBRA Board
Approval. There is a 75 day inspection period; closing is 30 days following the
completion of the inspection period.
• Crown has the option to purchase property at market value in the UTS McNichols area.
• Crown has 6 months to bring to correct non-compliant conditions on the half of the
acquired parcels, and 1 year to bring all parcels into the compliance. During this year,
the City reserves the right to act ensure dangerous conditions are addressed. Three of
the parcels include structures currently on the demolition list and Crown has agreed to
demolish those structures within 6 months of closing
Key City of Detroit deal terms
• The City or DBRA will provide the land swap properties to Crown.
• The Springwells Property will be conveyed in 2025 when the current lease expires.
• The City will provide an expedited approval process for Crown’s intended development
of property for FCA’s projects.

 Exhibit D-1
City Properties

See attached.

1. Bridge Areas 1 2 near St. Anne St

I519

I435
HISI


I445
I430
I435

I409
Porter 51;
34:5
31% 
342I
I222
I
252 02
I255 .E:

I250 
I245 22
42
E4
?3?1
4?

Key

 

0 Transfer Area
City property

Rail

 

4252
303i
PORTER
I255
WEI-1 1137
I052 I050
BGII 305]
34000v

2050 3550
3353 333I 33I23305
910 305?
342 93!
934
330 51'

 

 

I54I
I533
ISJI
I525
Isn
35:5
I502 ff




H45
1-53?
I43I
I423
I4I2
I402
301530?
I045
I025
I0I2
3025
5II
303
295
255

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

3005

184'}.


1323
5322
 3 b


I54I I433
. I538
IS3: 165 2545 253I I455
I422
I5I9 ?525
I423
I5I5 I45I
2620 2552 2552
I503 I452
I455 25 
IHI ustln St I453
I443
23:41 1657
2039 1522 ?33
I422
I4II
3520
I395 I405 1653 2545 2534 I435
I403
Porter 5:
131' I335
I329
167  255}- '33?
I325 254' 151?
I323
lilo I3II
2552 2530 2520
'29: I309 I302 I303
I303 Cromwell St '293
'125 I255 I255
2653
'185 '214 2539 2529
I252 I222
I225
2525
r4ovvnan .155 156U1556 164a 2530 I252
I245 ,245
I240
Iu5 San1pson St
I243 31 I233
5' 2555 2532
 233 I114 1'53]
I223 (n 
I230 
I2I3 
1222 23 1553 2553 2535 2524 I202


3053
ICISD H355

IDSI

I033
I000
 013 '03? 2535 '02?
I 0
01 none
I0I1 I033
I005
I000 '0'5
18H.
I003
West Lafayette Bd
505 1
. -515
50? 295
235 252
2
30 255

    

    
  
 

     

 



I404
I49I
4454
I48I
I424
I453
I455
I45I
I454
I444 I445
'433 I443
I432
I425
Porter 51:
Porter 5:
I324 15'5? ?3
.C
13I5 I3II 44
r-
I304 ?05

:r I300

r1
I250I52H
ST
1.:


225 54
PH

1502
I498


I 486

I-If-"l
I462

I453


I433

?23
HUB

1414':
Porter St
l3]!

I316


ST

Howard St

 

2. 1-94 Industrial Park Area 2

 

 

 

 

GIDII 5:3; SISII SIS: 

plan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIDS 5  I5 Elli ?3-5 EIS ale 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Hedge St
?04 6  I1 Elli El]! ?42 5154515: H71 ?84 
WEI EIDI in? H2 SIJII il? SHE BIBS 
Marcus St
5004 A NW me ?41 5  M56 
H30 H25 FAME LIES 

 

 

 

Domine St
3987
and ?loan3933
8973
OQJIHT
ELLIOTT
ill? "15 ?4 I53 "Fl 
Ke SEDI
Dodge St
0 Transfer Area mm
lift: "81 ?33
I City property 3321
Ball
INIS

 

 

 

 

Huber St

 

 

 

 

 

15 asead

 

 

 

Marcus St

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Richardson St

 



 

 

 

am j_m141 I was

?Is
659qu

 

 

ms

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. 1-94 Industrial Park - Area 3

8610

5735 3" 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6330
6386
639!

 

 

 

 

6425

 

540l

 

 

 

 

Key

 

 

0 Transfer Area

I City property

I US Ecology Property
Rail

Heinu St

 

 

 

 

Debuel St 

as Ulla-Imo?




3

C)
u.

Miller St 

 

 

 

6462

 

 

 

65? 5503 am 5522 6530 5514 

 

Girardin St

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TFoster?St

 

6612

 

6623

 

?636

 

 

 

as poomaqg 

 

 

 

 

E7D4

 

6712

 

67I6

 

?720

 

6718

 

6?34

 

 

Concord St

4. Jefferson Conner Freud - Lycaste & Edlie

Key

Transfer Area
City property
Rail

 

8. Area near Lycaste/Edlie

 

9. Area near Triple Barrels

  

5. Trombley Triangle - Hamtramck Drive

Hartwick St

Clay St

 

 

Iii?: CLAY
t'f?f'
-
If; I 
7332
If"
. 
.. 1. 12m

.11" 

.J 
r' 
a
GRAND ZEIIJDE
BLVD GRAND
BLVD

Key
0 Transfer Area
City property 15m 

- 
Rall

 

 


GRAND
BLVD
'5


2155H340

  

   

INS 
I975 

2 .4
.chf Qi?
-- 
. .- 6%
?23,
 966 

1'41? 51'

AUBIH

Cl ?31,112.11ng

39.90 

1'5 
GRAND
BLVD

99. Put? 1523

6. 18th Street Lots Fort St

IDSI
lazy
I023
IUIH
IGIS

?1113


tr}
(I) .1:
i?l
5 r-
7'le
352
74:.
r4n
1504
?600

_i

3 I 1535 
iels 50 
.1
I?ll}?

:sza ??50

Key

0 Transfer Area
City property
Rail

 

 

 

 

3355

l?th St

13-00 V?r





West Lafayette Bd



.C
1.:
Ln
TIED

ISth St


t?n" 



me- 
Howmm HOWARD al-



mm 

rd
22cc '4
I300

1000 1115
JIDI
2mm WED
JUSI
215.11 Ema
lean 1039
66'
Fort StWest 

1..


.
law?
(I) 
:mw mm 
33:5 ?l
mu
West jefferson Ave
- -- - Tia-5'


Inlrw


 

7. West Grand Toledo

 

 

    

 

591 


3
a 4:
43. 9.
Kai?- 
- 576 2425 14m
a. -.. 5T
.


23:1
wraewocu .
-- 
1330 1564
FDLEDO 22?
ED

rt
:3 IB 
.5
23? Balk 
CL
130? 3523 CD
13m] 3332 '1
2303
TaIedo St
'5 503 a
?35 3 3515 Ll3?
3953 ?45 Jim 3925 1'19 3 555 em
0 2125
0 an} 500 21:5
1.9; 1H5 CL 1120141}:
599 595 Illh 5T
55'? 2  II
has 115-? 34TH
593 5m 2105 ST
2mm
7 1 zluz 1m
JR - ml sen 535 109;. 20-3-1
ey
?095 1091 537 53-: man
585 2093
0 Transfer Area 532 1034
103: gal
sra 
It), Property 2014 5:5 5t 1965
. A
Rall 20m 532 2063 ?22!
5:3

 

 

1D61

 

10. Springwells Industrial Park

    
   
   

  
     
 

   
 
     
     
  

   
 

 

 

 


I
v, swonw
i JEFFERSON
?325 T?i354 II 
I
Medina 51: i

1955 I
I
F856 17m 
JEFFERSON
I
mrIr

Mu 

i


I
II
It
I-nn
spamswan
CT
. I440
I
ITETL mm 
JI SPRINGWELLS
. I 
I I-IEU
5' I500 EFRINGWELLS
'0 SPRINGWELLS tr
CT
3 .
45y.
sf? 
$0

-- Key 
0 Transfer Area 

Clty Property IEIE I415 
SPRING-WELLS I
Rail CT I I

Conant 51 

EISEI






illil



SPlil
I5IEI
E?ldl
SDCII



LIZEI

l?Ell



0151:
5151:
5151:
1951:
5551:

FSSEI
?g?fl

998f 

?151: BEHEI
9151:

1191:

LESEI

5551:

5951:

EEBEI

'935' 1151:

EEBEI

SIHEI

I)
la! kabq?:h??f
:3

95:1:


51:1:
91:1:
11:1:
51:1:
55:1:
55:1:
55:1:

b1l1:
Bllil
55:1:
95:1:
"95:1:
1511:
5:11:

9111:
9111:



9131'
9111:
{Bill
SSILI
5511:



BGILI

Moran St

?153
I15.

HII1I
Fllil
61:1:
9?1?l
15:1:

15 

59:1:

51:1:

I5I1I

15:1: 1951

15:1:

55:1:

SOIEI

II11I

5:11:

5111:

:111:

Klinger St

ESIZI

quil
1111:
5111:



l?Ell

9IELI


9151:
1151:
5151:
1:51:
5551:
9551:
1951:
9951:
5151:

9551:
1551:


9U?il

GUPE

Newbern St



OHOWAVD
EQPF

{I?il

EEHEI
BCBEI
Si?il
IESEI
658M
EQSEI
5951:
ELSEI
:551:

1551:

EGSEI

1:51:

EEGEI

[09!

655E

Dl?il
Qi?fl


RESEI

055u
1551:
1951:
5991:
5151:



5551:
1551:
DIBEI
9:51:
1151:
5151:

9:51:

Gallagher St

15:1:
55:1:

91:1: 
91Iu
51:1:
51:1:
55:1:
05:1:
95l?l
19:1:
59:1:
Pilil
55:1:
95:1:
15:11
95:1:
5511:
9:11:

9111:
91:1:
1111:
5111:

5511:



 





1191 

5511:
1911:
5911:
1111:
5311:
5511:
5511:
QEEII

35V awmaf

5151 11515551

5

?5
l9E?l 'l?l'ELl at?
1951: 5511: 
Eitil U9EL
fulfil lg?:
5351: ?ifil
IEELI bqill
LQEII



ifE?1

9511:

IOEE

153
1'1-
31"-

lb 5
?1

1111:

5111:

cu 

SEIE 



:151:
5151:
5151:
5131:
5:51:
1551:
1551:
1951:
5951:
5151:
I551:
155::
1551:
5551:
5551:
ll?El
1:51:
1151:
5151:
5151:

595::

5151:
9151:
1151:
SEEM
1:51:
5551:
9551:
1951:
5951:
9151:
0551:
9551:
1551:
5551:
6551:
0:51:
9:51:





9h?El

0:11




LIILI




51:1:
lilil
51:1:
15:1:
55:1:
59:1:



11:1:
15:1:
55:1:
55:1:
:511:
1511:


5111:
I111:

LEELI

1511:

:11: 1011:

1:11:
5111:

01111

IIZE


Ellil
51:1:
51:1:


15:1:
59:1:
59I1I

51:1:

55:1:
95:1:
1011]
9511-:
kltil

QEILI

lEIf IUIF

Charest St

I151: 9191:
1:31. 9151:
1151: 9151:
5151: 5151:
5551: 1:51:
:551: 0551:
1551: 9551:
1951: 1951:
EQEEI BQBEI
5135' 9181:
:551:

1551: 9551:
1551: 1551:
5551: 5551:
5551: 1551:
llaEI HGEEI
1:51: 9:51:
I151I 1151:
{ibil Bl?il
5151: +151:
9:50
1951: 9151:
1551: 1551:
Bibfl

5151: 5151:
51:5 . 5551:
9551:




1ZL1I 
11:1: 
6El?l 311;:
FZILI


LSILI 95:1:
- 19:1:

5rI1:
Silil l?S g 
09 g 
99:1:

U?lil

6631! pg1g1

McDougall SI:

3
(5
.
i?g? 1521:

5&9

IZBEI

1151:
5151:
9151:
I551:
1551:
EHBEI

B9BEI

I551:
5551:
1581:
5551:
5951:
ll?il
1:51:
I151:
5151:
5151:

SPGEI



5151:
I551:
5551:
I551:




5:11:
?llil




51:1:
55:1:




silt:

I5I1I

L?lil

SIDE 


1111:

9bI?l
9?Z?l

IUUE

QEEII

5151:
9151:

.1151:

5151:
9:51:
555m
9551:
1951:
5951:
5151:
5551:
9551:
1551
5551:
9551:
5:51:
9:51:
1151:
5151:

UPEEI

QPEEI

Bi?il

1151:
5551:
9551:
15511
5551:
505::
Ul?il
5591

55:1:


11:1:
55:1:
91:1:



Zhlil

{9 "353115:

41:
6111:


5511:

Mitchell St

5161

?561

I151:
1151:
1151:
5151:
5:51:
I551:
1.581:
1951:
5951:
5151:
I551:

5151:

5551:
I551:
5551:
5551:
llUil

IEOPI

5551






1155:
1151:
1151:
5151:
5551:
I551:
1551:
1951:
5951:
5151:

Reynolds St

nvuurwa

55511

1151:
Ei?il

Il?ll

Reynolds Ave

Ii?rl

i962

?9?kl



15 awOJaI'

DZBEI

Ii?il

1951:
5551:

5551:
C551:

DGEEI

9Db?l
bl?il

116E:


9909:

050::

1161 {?62 5151 E061

Elitl

If

U?ltl

UGELT

Elttl

Gkidl

IEILI



EDEII

LIELI

Joseph Campau St



ISBEI

I151:

 

115:
9151
1151
515:
115:
555:
955

 

019

1131:
OEBEI
9551:
1551:
H??il

GIGEI

1151:
Bl?il
tf?il
Uh?fl


1551:

5551:

5151:
9151:
1551:
5551:
1551:
555::
9555:
1:59:
5:55:

1151:




615::

IOEI

6*l1l



EIBE

59:1:

UBILI

9E ?l





5?

9'1


.55

Anglin St

503!

69111

l?lfl

?511:

[i?il
?iBIl

IGSEI
i?EEl

6l?El
5:51:
ll?fl
1151:

5E6EI
5151:
ISGEI
LSEEI

6?6El
515E:
I??il
?Rbil
f??El
5551:
?551:

1:59:
ft??l
5109:

lh?bl
155::
1559:

59??l
li?fl


[(343
99JV 
159,.

5151:
0881:
9551:
1551:

1551:
5051:
5:51:
1:151:
9Ebf 
1151:
5151:
9r5? 
1551:
5551:
5951:
5951:
hi?El
5551:
9551:
5551:
5551:

0:51:
9:51:
1101:
15:1:
501::
5115:
511::
911::
111::
5111:
511::
551::

as uomv


65:1:

IE1:

Maine 51

Dilil

till1



?ilil lb

:111:
95:1:

a,

rip



5151:
1551:
1551:
5551:
5551:

1:51:
1151:
5151:
1151:
515m
5151:
1551:
5551:
1951:
5951:
1151:
:551:
1551:
1551:
5551:
555::
II51I


561::
Ellil
I115:


5119:

I519:
151::

GEIEI



[Flil





 

12. Van Dyke Airport Area - Industrial Land

'7 2le
2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

45V 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13. 12121 Mack near project area

IICIEII

Iran
I 1: MACK

Transfer Area
City property
Rail

 

 

Mack Station Drive

1505

CDHNER

IZHJI
HACK

 

12:?
MACH.

ilili


15f?

East Can?eld St
4416

1400
.l-lfll
COP-INLH



ITIIES
HACK

1351i
CUHNEF:

Mack Service Drive

Exhibit E
Sites 1, 8A and 8B
(Modifications to DLBA and Michael Kelly)
Seller: Detroit Land Bank Authority
Agreement: Amendment to Land Transfer Agreement between DBRA and DLBA
Property:
• Amendment adds additional “Exchange Properties” as follows:
21062541.
21062537.
21062527.
21062519.
21062518.
09010643.
09010074.
09010476.
09010086.
09010070.
09010891.
09010890.
09010069.
09010631.
10000094.
12007625.
12007628.
10008097.
10008461.
10008460.
12007621.
10000139.001
10007134-9

419 ASHLAND
435 ASHLAND
475 ASHLAND
511 ASHLAND
517 ASHLAND
17107 MCDOUGALL
17136 CHAREST
17106 MCDOUGALL
17208 CHAREST
17114 CHAREST
17130 MITCHELL
17122 MITCHELL
17104 CHAREST
17179 MCDOUGALL
2703 HOWARD
1419 20TH ST
1401 20TH ST
1029 ST ANNE
1448 20TH ST
1442 20TH ST
1449 20TH ST
2721 PORTER
734 18TH ST
***********

Seller: Michael Kelly and affiliated entities
Agreement: Modification to previously approved transaction to add additional property to be
acquired from Seller: 6394 Richardson

 