Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, April 18, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Mike
Koetting (Substitute Member) and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (Substitute
Member) (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director David Ernesto Munar

Telephonically
Present:
Absent:

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (Non-Director Member)
Directors Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH and Layla P. Suleiman
Gonzalez, PhD, JD (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Linda Follenweider – Chief Operating Officer,
Correctional Health
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan – General Counsel
Iliana Mora – Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory
Services

II.

John O’Brien, MD – Chair, Department of
Professional Education
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided a brief update on regulatory and accreditation matters.
He stated that he attended the Annual Leadership Forum at The Joint Commission yesterday. At the
Forum, they focused on leadership, specifically relating to professionalism, and sterile processing.
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
C. Diabetes Care Update (deferred to May)

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were none presented for the Committee’s consideration.
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #2)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, provided
his report. He stated that, at the recent EMS meeting, they received presentations from
Obstetrics/Gynecology and the Operating Room Committee.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting. The Committee considered the proposed Provident Hospital medical staff actions
presented for their consideration.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for Provident Hospital
of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, March 22, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of March 22,
2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI
V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Strategic Planning Discussion:
•

Graduate Education (Attachment #3)
- Approve proposed clinical training affiliation agreements (Attachment #4)

Dr. John O’Brien, Chair of the Department of Professional Education, provided an overview of the
presentation on Graduate Education and related action items, which included information on the
following items:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 3

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Strategic Planning Discussion (continued)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Overview of the Department of Professional Education
Impact 2020 Update – Status and Results
History of Medical Training in the U.S.
Moving Away from a Service-Based Residency Model
Final Deliverables
Recruit Outstanding Medical Students
Origin of Medical Students for the Incoming Class
Train in High Quality Residencies
Train in High Quality Fellowships
Retention of Graduates
Retention of Graduates in the Last Three Years
Rotator Programs
Cost Analysis
FY2020-2022 – The Future
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
FY2020-2022 Strategic Planning Recommendations
Action Items – Agreements for Review and Approval

During the review of the information relating to staffing, Dr. Shannon noted that Dr. O’Brien is the
Designated Institutional Official for the organization’s training programs. Each of those training
programs has a physician program director and supports within them. Director Richardson-Lowry
requested a chart reflecting the positions within the Department of Professional Education and related
training programs.
During the discussion of the information regarding the origin of medical students, it was stated that 40%
of the primary care physicians are from outside of the U.S. Director Richardson-Lowry requested
information on the breakdown and how the organization compares to comparably sized institutions with
similar focus.
Director Richardson-Lowry suggested that, with regard to the work being done by staff to secure visas for
residents, perhaps the administration should look into potential internal or external resources to assist.
•

Primary Care / Maternal Child Care (Attachment #5)

Iliana Mora, Chief Operating Officer of Ambulatory Services, provided an overview of the presentation
on Primary Care / Maternal Child Care, which included information on the following items:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Overview of Ambulatory Health Centers
FY2018 Overview of Cook County Health (CCH) Patients Demographics
FY2018 Primary Care Visits
FY2018 Specialty / Diagnostic / Procedure Visit Volume
Impact 2020 Update – Status and Results
FY2020-2022: The Future – Environmental Scan of Market, Best Practices and Trends
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
FY2020-2022 Strategic Planning Recommendations

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 4

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Strategic Planning Discussion (continued)
During the review of the information, Director Richardson-Lowry requested that a map be provided that
includes a clear legend that reflects where CCH clinics and Federally-Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs)
are located, and include the categories of services provided by CCH clinics versus the FQHCs. This will
help the Board as they think strategically about where to move or not, and where there might be synergy
or not. It will also inform their thinking with respect to marketing strategies, as well as any potentials
around mergers and forecasting.
Additionally, Director Richardson-Lowry stated that, with respect to the nomenclature relating to the
maternal infant mortality rate, particularly amongst African Americans, the term “project,” was used.
Project by definition has a start and an end. In an earlier conversation, Chair Gugenheim noted that, by
having the mentality of it being a project, the organization did not get to the point where the systemic
issues were addressed.
As the organization moves towards addressing the systemic issues and
maximizing the opportunities, she requested that the term “project” not be used.
With regard to slide 34 of the presentation, in the category of Opportunities within the SWOT Analysis,
Director Richardson-Lowry requested that the word “maternal” be included with the bullet on prenatal
and pediatric patient base.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to approve the
proposed clinical training affiliation agreements. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
D. Quality and Patient Safety Report
Director Koetting, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to recess
the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or
dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to
determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and
is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body
finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the
finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of
claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees
Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim
might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 5

VI.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
management information, records, data, advice or communications from or
with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk
management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a
member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care
professionals, or for the discussion of matters protected under the federal
Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, including 42 C.F.R. Part 3 (73 FR 70732), or the
federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, including 45 C.F.R. Parts 160, 162, and
164, by a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated
by the public body.”
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed
into a closed meeting.
Chair Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

The

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/follow-up:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 6

Request:

A request was made for a chart reflecting the positions within the Department of Professional
Education and related training programs. Page 3

Request:

With regard to the statement that 40% of CCH primary care physicians are from outside of the
U.S., a request was made for a breakdown and how the organization compares to comparably
sized institutions with similar focus. Page 3

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made, with regard to the work being done by staff to secure visas for residents,
that perhaps the administration should look into potential internal or external resources to assist.
Page 3

Request:

A request was made for a map that includes a clear legend that reflects where CCH clinics and
Federally-Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) are located, and include the categories of services
provided by CCH clinics versus the FQHCs. Page 4

Request:

With regard to slide 34 of the presentation, in the category of Opportunities within the SWOT
Analysis, a request was made that the word “maternal” be included with the bullet on prenatal
and pediatric patient base. Page 4

 