    

sue Griswotd, Suite 2299
Detroit, MI 48226

CODE EDC 19-05-02-313
(As Amended at Table)

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MAY 9, 2019 SPECIAL MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Special meeting of May 9, 2019 are hereby approved,
with revisions that include a summary and the essence of the discussion that occurred, and 
actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are hereby
in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic Development Corporation.

May 14, 2019

 

  

couomc ?ayixov?tuv quasar-ids"
500 Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 9, 2019 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

(As Amended on 5114/1 9)

Marsha Bruhn
Kimberly Clayson
Damon Hodge
Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Matthew Roling
Jonathan Quarles
Thomas Stallworth

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
Linda Forte
John Naglick (Ex?Officio)

None

Marvin Thomas (l-94 lndustrial Park Project)
Raebum King (Springwells industrial Park Project)

Anthony Adams (Marine Adams Law PC)
Nick Allen 

Amy Amador (Hubbard Farms Neighborhood Assoc.)
Sarah Ande (Ml Radio)

Lisa Berglund (Dalhousie Univ.)

Kai Bowman (Mayor?s Office)

Marc Brazeau (FCA)

Kenyetta Bridges 

Raquel Castaneda-Lopez (City Council)
Basil Cherian (Mayor?s Office)

Monique Field Foster (WNG)

Whitley Granberry (DJC)

Amanda Hanlin (DEGC)

Gay Hilger 

Arthur Jamison (Mayor?s Office)

Malinda Jensen 

Damon Jordan 

Paul Kako 

Jennifer Kanalos 

  

I . . naeaatto?i
509 Griewotd, Suite 2209
Detroit, MI 48226

(OTHERS PRESENT CONT.)

May 9, 2019

 

Dave Krzezenski (Resident)

Michaet Koehler (Resident)

Tom Lewand (Mayor?s Office)

Gian Long 

Nicholas Marsh 

Miller (Senator Stephanie Chang)
Erika Mobiey (FCA)

Ben Monacetli (FCA)

Rebacca Navin 

Nicole Pagan (Wayne State University)
Sarah Pavetko (DEGC)

Martha Potere (DEGC)

Greg Rose (FCA)

Simone Sagovac

Nevan Shokar (DEGC)

Ron Staltworth (FCA)

Jessica Trevino (Hubbard Richard Resident Assoc. VP)
Matt Waiters (Mayor?s Office)

Eric Williams (Detroit Justice Center)
Virginia Zetgter (Hubbard Farms)

 

Detroit, hit-18228

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL MEETING

TUESDAY, MAY 9, 2019

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 A.M.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Vice Chair Queries caiied the Special meeting of the Economic
Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:42 am.

GENERAL

Aggrovai of Minutes

Mr. Quarles asked if there were any additions, deietions or corrections to the minutes of the April
23, 2019 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Roling, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC 19-05-02-312
was unanimously approved.

PROJECTS
l-94 Industrial Park - Land Exchange with US Ecoloqv. Inc.

Mr. Jordan reported that US Ecology Inc. Ecology?), a leading North American provider of
environmental services to commercial and government entities, has an existing waste treatment
center located within lm94 industrial Park at 6520 Georgia, as shown on Exhibit A hereto. The
EDC owns the following parcels that are contiguous to US Ecology?s current operation and facility
that US Ecology proposes to acquire: 6441, 6459, 6471, 6475 6479 Debuel St. 8708, 8706 
8676 Girardin St. 8611 Sherwood St, also shown on Exhibit A (coitectively, the Parcels?).

US Ecology owns the following parcels as further depicted on Exhibit A: 6446, 6470 6476
Debuel St. 8524 Girardin St 1 8605 Sherwood (coilectivety, the Ecology Parcels?).

US Ecology proposes to transfer to the EDC the US Ecology Parcels in exchange for the EDC
Parcels (the and Exchange?). The Land Exchange wiil aliow the EDC to offer contiguous
acreage to developers and potential businesses coming into l?94 Industrial Park. The exchange
will aiso ailow US Ecoiogy expansion space as they grow.

Representatives from the EDC and US Ecology have negotiated the terms of a Land Exchange
Agreement (the ?Agreement?), pursuant to which the EDC will convey the EDC Parcels to US

May 9, 2019

    

500 Geriatric-id, Suite 2200
Detroit, 95148226

Ecology in exchange for US Ecology?s Parcels to the EDC. Each party will accept the parcels on
an as~is, where-is basis.

As part of this Land Exchange, the EDC has agreed to cause the conveyance of the eastern 1/2 of
vacated Sherwood and repave all of vacated Sherwood adjacent to US Ecology?s facility, as
indicated in Exhibit B, at an estimated cost of seven hundred thousand ($700,000) dollars. The
EDC will use its customary bidding process to select a contractor for the pavement work and the
most responsive bidder will be presented to the EDC Board of Directors for final approval and
authorization for EDC staff to enter into the necessary agreements required for such work.
Funding for this work will come from the l~94 industrial Park Project Plan budget.

Staff requested the Board?s approval to execute the Agreement in substantially the form which
was inciuded in the material as Exhibit and to consummate the terms thereof.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Ms. Clayson made a motion, which was seconded by Ms. Bruhn, to hear Public Comment
after the Board discussion and before voting on the items. The Board unanimousiy agreed
to the motion.

Ms. Clayson asked for access to the community benefits agreement and the process for that.

Ms. Navin advised that this agenda item is not directly related to the FCA project. This swap is
something that has been in discussions for over five years and is just now coming to fruition. We
will do a full presentation on the next item and we do have printouts of the community benefits
report that we can circulate to Board members.

Mr. Roling asked if this was completely independent from the FCA project. Ms. Navin replied that
it is a swap that needs to be done irrespective of the FCA planned expansion and the next item
because regardless who the ultimate user is of Area 3 in l?94, in order to provide any user with
contiguous acreage at the site, we need to do this swap.

Ms. Nevin stated that the one other piece of land included in this deal is on Sherwood Avenue. It
was vacated several years ago, and we?ve been in discussions with US Ecology for some time
regarding us paving portions of Sherwood Avenue. There is no cash exchanged but we would
agree to repave a section of Sherwood Avenue next to their facility. The estimate for that is about
$700,000 and it would be bid out in accordance with our normal procedures.

Mr. Jackson mention that an earlier Board meeting, the Board requested information on the
bidding procedures that are used and just wanted to remind staff. Ms. Navin stated that staff will
ensure that the Board will receive information on the full RFP process and bidding procedures
before this contract will be bid out later in the summer. The EDC bidding process should be
consistent with how contracting procedures are managed at the City and/or DBA. Staff will
provide full information on how project was bid out, scoring etc.

May 9, 2019

  

. at or. is
506 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Bill 48228

 

PUBLIC COMMENT

Mr. Queries opened the floor to public comments specifically as it relates to this l-94 industrial
Project and advised that each person would have two minutes each.

The following individual made public comment:

Raquel Castaneda?Lopez (Detroit City Council) - does this project support the further expansion
of US Ecology and if so, was there a community engagement process as it relates to these
parcels. US Ecology will use the parcels for employee parking. And to our knowledge there was
no community engagement process facilitated by EDC staff. She recommended that there be
additional landscaping requirements if this project is next to any residential areas.

Mr. Roling requested additional details about the gross acreage of the land swap for this project.
Ms. Navin discussed the location of the former residential parcels and the parcels that wili be
transferred to EDC. These parcels would allow US Ecology to square off their property.

Subsequent to the Board?s discussion and the public comment, the Board took the following
action: 

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Ms. Ciayson, Resolution Code EDC 19-05-13-
54 was unanimously approved.

FCA Land Assembly Project: Property Exchange Agreements (l-94 Project Plan,
Springwells Industrial Park Project Plan, East Side Revitalization Project)

Ms. Navin advised that in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority at the request of the City of Detroit
(the ?City?,) on February 27, 2019, the DBRA approved that certain Memorandum of
Understanding by and between FCA US LLC DBRA and the City (the relating to
the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the ?Project"):

. Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located at
Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full?time jobs; and

. invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant, located at
Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time jobs.

In order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately 200 acres of market-ready
land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Project-?related activities such as employee
parking, trailer marshailing, and finished vehicle storage. Thus, in the MOU, DBRA and the City
agreed, among other things, to execute binding agreements to deliver title to sufficient acreage
adjacent to or in close proximity to the Project site to meet expansion needs.

May 9, 2019

    

son answers. Suite 2230
Detroit, Mi 48226

To date, DBRA and/or the City have negotiated agreements for the acquisition of nearly 215 acres
of property near the Project site, as shown on Exhibit A included in the Board materiai. Where
possible, the City and DBRA have attempted to ieverage existing publicly~owned land assets,
including land owned or controlled by The Economic Development Corporation of the City of
Detroit (the as full or partial consideration for the property required for the Project.

In particular, the EDC is being asked to convey properties in connection with the 
acquisition of the below described parcels for the Project.

. Site 4 (owned by Fodale Group and Associates (?Fodale?)) will be acquired by the DBRA
pursuant to a series of related transactions with Fodale and its affiliates Road Land
LLC and Trident Huber, LLC (?Trident Huber?). EDC is being asked to enter into a Property
Exchange Agreement with the DBRA and Trident Huber upon the terms described in
Exhibit 84 included in the Board material for the sale of the EDC?controlled properties
described in Exhibit 8-2 (the Trident Properties") also included in the Board
material.

 

. Site 10 (owned by Crown Enterprises, inc. (?Crown?)) will be acquired by the DBRA
pursuant to a Property Exchange Agreement by and among DBRA, the City and Crown,
summary of which was included in the Board material as Exhibit 0-1. In the event Crown
elects to take title to certain EDC-controlied properties included in the Board materiai as
Exhibit 0-2 (the Crown Properties?) as an offset to the purchase price, the EDC is
being asked to convey the EDC Crown Properties to Crown.

ln recognition of the benefits conferred by the Project to the City and its residents and taxpayers,
EDC staff recommended the Board?s approval of the foliowing: execution of a Property
Exchange Agreement with DBRA and Trident Huber for the sale of the EDC Trident Huber
Properties and (ii) conveyance of any or all of EDC Crown Properties to Crown, upon Crown?s
election to take title to same in accordance with the Property Exchange Agreement by and among
the City, DBRA and Crown. A resolution was inciuded for the Board?s consideration.

Following Ms. Navin's introduction of the project, Ms. Bridges and the City development team
gave a PowerPoint presentation and introduced the FCA team to further describe the project in
detail and answer Board members? questions. Mr. Ron Staiiworth, FCA governmental relations
representative gave an overview of the expansion project and what will be manufactured at the
facilities. Additionally, Mr. Stallworth gave an overview of the community benefits process and
recommendations. Mr. Basil Cherian, Mayor?s office provided a detailed overview of the
comprehensive reai estate deal to ensure that EDC Board understands the context of the EDC
land transfer agenda items as a part of a larger real estate transaction. Ms. Bridges gave an
overview on the proposed incentives and workforce strategy.

Board Member Questions

May 9, 2019

 

Detroit, MI 43228

Mr. Roling what?s the net present value of the incentive package (incentive/land) and why didn't
the staff discount the value?

Staff Response: There was further discussion about what the city is contributing versus what the
city will receive over 30 years. Discussion expanded to the value of state incentives? Taxpayers
across the state will be impacted. State will need to run its own calcuius.

Ms. Clayson inquired about the parcel that FCA is leasing from Crown. Why can?t FCA continue
to lease the property.
Staff Response: FCA would like to own its real estate, there are business and function reasons
to convey ownership.

Ms. Clayson inquired about the valuation formula used to determine value of all land transfers.
Why is the Crown property so much higher than the per acre value of the other transfers?

Staff Response: No formal appraisal conducted, the parcel is essential to the FCA expansion
project.

Mr. Jackson appreciates the FCA commitment to the city and the importance of having good jobs
and the CBA will direct the jobs to Detroiters. Who is going to build the facility and how will DBE
contractors be engaged. And who will be the suppiiers to this project? How wilt Tier 1, Tier 2
minority suppliers be encouraged to bid on the future opportunities?

FCA Response: Mr. Stallworth noted that average salary will be $58,000. Suppliers have
expressed an interest in being relatively close to the facility. And there?s a multiplier effect that
will create additional jobs.

Additionai suppliers can create up to 2,500 jobs to support this expansion and one of the primary
drivers to increasing the number of industrial parcels.

Mr. Jackson reiterated who is going to build this facility?

FCA Response: FCA has retained two primary contractors: Walbridge and Barton Malow. FCA
is preparing to award a cement contract to a DBE, roughly 15% of the work. The primary
contractors have been given the directive to seek Detroit based contractors for this project.

Mr Jackson had further questions about real estate strategy and what?s to prevent the owners
that are receiving public tends to not use this land to create a future deal that would require city
or EDC to swap land again for the ?next deal".

Mr. Lewand responded and stated that this is why we are developing land to increase competition
and this strategy as it stands today wilt avoid the scenario from occurring.

Mr. Roling asks if FCA hiring practices allow for the hiring of returning citizens or functionally
iliiterate people.

FCA Response: One of primary objectives is to focus on returning citizens as supported
by Council Member Ayers. Much of the training dollars will be to address work readiness skills.

May 9, 2019

  

. snowstorm?: Communion
5m} Griswoid, Suite 3203
Detroit, hit 43226

 

Mr. Roling further discussed his concerns that many of the larger development projects are not
meeting the hiring targets and he's struggling with identifying people ready to work. City
investment is going to average $60,000 per job, how does this compare to other FCA projects
across the country.

FCA reps indicated that this is not an issue anywhere else that they do business. The incentives
make Detroit competitive as compared to other communities. This project is receiving far less
than what?s given in other communities.

Mr. Stallworth asks if FCA is prepared to support policies/reforms to criminal record expungement.
FCA rep af?rmed yes and confirmed that there are many returning citizens at JNAP.

Ms. Clayson asked if this is a done deal and can FCA select another location? No legislative
approvals are required. Tell us more about site and what makes it attractive?

FCA Response: FCA rep explained its location and adjacency to highways and they own property
in the immediate area for potential expansion.

Ms. Clayson asks what are the order of events and when does check get released for land
transfers.

Staff Response: Agreements must be approved by City Council and Michigan Strategic Fund
before development agreement and related land transfers go into effect subject to required due
diligence period.

Ms. Bruhn had further questions about two of the parcels being transferred to Crown (Toledo/W
Grand map). The parcels are adjacent to Crown property yet how is this occurring since the
City led a comprehensive neighborhood framework plan for multi-family housing? Grant it, it's
part of a long term not a short?term strategy for the area. So, it may or may not happen. Has the
community been notified that this parcel will be subject to transfer to Crown for potential industrial
use? This is a iBO?degree shift by the City and what are the implications.

Mr. Jamison said that this is new public information and he was involved with the planning for this
site and community benefits process. This land agreement must be reviewed by City Council.
This site is necessary to move this project forward. We understand that there is a cost but if this
site were to be removed from the negotiations, Crown could respond, no deal. Further Mr. Walters
reiterated that there have been several counter proposals including all cash, all land or a hybrid
of both. If this parcel were to be removed, the deal will be torpedoed with Crown and ultimately
with FCA.

Ms. Bruhn followed up with how much does the community know qbout this?
Staff responded - this hasn?t been shared with community.

Ms. Bruhn has a real concern because this parcel could lead to the development of more industrial
uses with increased traffic in southwest Detroit including bridge related and other industrial uses,

May 9, 2019

    

I see Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Mi 48226

but she is not comfortable with the lack of communication. This is a very good project with good
jobs which is important. It?s incredible with what?s been done in a two month plus process but at
the same time, the city has an obligation to be truthful with the community.

Mr. Walters responded in agreement with the need for transparency and with a very aggressive
and intense process, information has been shared once the deal was finalized.

Mr. Quaries asked the board members to stay focused on the land transfer agenda items that are
being presented to the EDC Board for review and approval.

Also, what the status of St. Anne Street and what does Crown plan to do with this particular site.
its adjacent to the bridge toil ptaza and there?s no contempiated closure of St Anne.

Mr. Oswie wanted to discuss the true cost of this project, it?s unclear when the city factors in the
costs tied to the community benefits agreement, land value, incentives. lt seems as if we are
spending more than what the project will return. Further discussion about the various sources 
city, state that will contribute to the totai cost of the project.

Ms Clayson asks for the current use of one parcel adjacent to the bridge foot print in the Springwell
district project plan.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Mr. Queries advised that there were several individuals present that had requested to make public
comment and stated that they would be given two minutes each. The following individuals made
public comment:

Jessica Trevino (Hubbard Richard Residents Association V.P.)

Her organization works very hard to keep their neighborhood nice. Ambassador Bridge
has decimated their housing stock. Despite the property vaiues are increasing and they
are very proud of the heritage of the community. Ambassador Bridge has not been a good
neighbor and its as a result of their activity that this area cannot be declared a historic
district like Corktown. Ambassador Bridge wants to connect ail their properties and it?s
destroying the neighborhood.

Raquel Castaneda?Lopez (Detroit City Council)

She asked the EDC to deny or postpone the vote. Like the EDC, they just received all of
these documents two days ago. She talked about the development agreement and other
documents that are not being presented to the EDC Board for review and approval.
Administration toid her that she missed the window to negotiate and some council
members were involved but not alt of them were involved. There is not enough notice
given to properly engage the community. She also wanted the EDC to review additional

May 9, 2019

    

599 Griswoid?, Suite 22
Ustroit, Mi 48228

legal documents. No clear legal definition of the number of jobs that will be held for Detroit
residents; only that these applications will be prioritized. And its just production jobs, not
skilled or professional jobs.

Amy Amador

Appreciate bringing jobs to Detroit and as a former member of the Hubbard
Richard CDC, none of this would have happened this way. She lives very close to the
potential land swap parcels. They were informed that the parcel in question was going to
be down?zoned. There was also discussion about the closure of St. Anne Street and there
has been vocal opposition to this. Marouns are bad actors in this community he closed
streets and fenced in property owned by the city without permission. He develops property
without the use of permits or to code. if they want to change their image and be a strong
community partner, the City needs to go back to the drawing board to get the a deal that
removes these critical issues that are impacting residential communities.

Virginia Zeigler (Hubbard Farms Neighborhood Association and Messiah Church)

She is part of a family and likes their cars. She?s a member of this neighborhood
association and Messiah Church which is across from the Toledo parcel. She?s unclear
why the city wanted to add multi-family to this area because trucking and industry is too
close to residential. The parcel would be better used for buffering between the industry
and the neighborhood. There?s too much truck traffic in the neighborhood and it impacts
police and fire routes.

Michael Koehler (1735 St. Anne Street)

He?s lived on this street for 25 years and bought it from the city. The bridge has not been
a good neighbor. The bridge has bulldozed good houses and now it?s just vacant land.
Trucks are on Toledo day and night which is in a residential area. He asks the board to
not approve this.

Francis Grunow

He?s not a resident of the area but serves in the capacity of the Chair of the NAC in arena
district. He?s aware of big projects and incentives on public discourse. He supports FCA
and applauds the city forthe speed in which this deal has been negotiated; however there
hasn?t been enough time for public deliberations. How does this feel as a body to make
these decisions, there is not enough time in the process. This is a windfall for
Crown/Marouns. Public wasn?t aware of the parcels under consideration, there should be
more discussion on the clawbacks tied to these parcels. So, he urges the board to delay
or vote no on the agenda items.

May 9, 2019

  

. bonnet-suites maisonette-n
500 Griswold, Suite 2209
Detroit, titt- 48226

 

Dave Krzezenski (Purchasing properties at 18th and Fort and Bridge 1st and 

He pointed to the map and located where he lives. He wants to know the intent of the
purchaser. What?s the purchaser going to do with this property. I hear that it?s going to
be noisy, smelly and congested.

Mr. Roiing ask if there was a representative from Crown at the meeting? No.

Jariynn Milier

Representing Representative Chang?s office. Her of?ce requests that the board slow
down. it?s not fair to the community and there is not enough information on the land deal
to make an informed decision. Let the community be informed, due process is key. No
one knew about the land swaps until two days ago. Just slow down.

Historical account was given on a proposed proposal for St. Annes to be used for
employee parking.

Ms.Ciayson asks if there has been any discussion with state of Michigan, Bridge Authority,
Canadians about the land swap adjacent to the proposed footprint of the bridge.

Staff Response: Ms. Navin spoke with the attorney for the Detroit Windsor Bridge
Authority and she gave an overview of the land swap and current lease on these properties
which will end in 2025 with the Bridge Authority. Parcels are currently being used for
construction laydown. Upon termination of the tease, Crown will determine if they want
the properties and deed will be released from escrow. Crown not be the landiord for
these properties. EDC wiil continue to receive the revenue stream which is a pass through
to the city to fund a neighborhood program.

Mr. Quarles thanked the public for their comments.

Subsequent to the public comment and the Board?s discussion on the project, the Board
took the following action:

Mr. Roling made a motion, which was seconded by Ms. Clayson, to spiit the Soave and
the Crown transactions and vote on each transaction individually. That motion was
unanimously approved.

Soave Transaction

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Mr. Roiing, Resolution Code E00 19-05-13-
55 and Code EDC 19-05-6940 was approved, with Ms. Clayson opposing.

May 9, 2019

  

is
5430 Griswold. Suite 2200
Detroit, till 48228

 

Crown Enterprises, Inc. Transaction

On a motion by Ms. Bruhn, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 19?054 3?56 and
Code EDC 19-05-6941 was tabled, with Ms. Ciayson opposing, to be brought back at the
next Board meeting scheduled for May 14, 2019.

Staff was requested to provide additions! information on the project and responses to Board
Members? questions before the May 14, 2019 meeting to allow board members to be rigorous and
disciplined in their review process while respecting the concerns that have been raised by the
community.

Administration confirmed that by delaying the vote for one week shouid be ok as the project has
to be reviewed and approved by the PED Committee and City Council on or before May 21, 2019.
Therefore, EDC Board must take a vote on or before this date.

EDC Board has asked the City to be available to continue to address the concerns of the
community before the vote.

Ms. Clayson asked that the staff provide responses to the existing questions that were sent and
further stated that what is being asked of this Board and of city residents is incredibiy unfair. The
Board is being asked to make big decisions about the economic future of the city on the backs of
a neighborhood is incredibly unfair. All other aspects of the deal are fine but to make this decision
in such a short period of time is unfair.

Mr. Roling further indicated that the staff is working very hard to bring this project to Detroit and
the community is working very hard to defend the needs of the community. has made
$58 in profits and you are asking the City that went through the largest municipal bankruptcy in
US history to approve incentives worth How can you look approve this? You are pitting the Executive branch against the Legislative branch and we both
iose.

EDC Board reiterated that the staff should provide answers to the questions and meet with the
community before the next meeting.

ADMINISTRATION
OTHER MATTERS
ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, on a motion by Mr. Stailworth,
seconded by Mr. Osei, Mr. Queries adjourned the meeting at 10:47 am.

May 9, 2019




Rename Dwuovmmtovmmou
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48228

    

CODE EDC 19-05-02-312

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF APRIL 23. ?019 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regutar meeting of April 23, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic Development
Corporation.

May 9, 2019

 Ecoxourc b?uaidmicmomsg
. 500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

    

CODE EDC 19-05-13-55
(Amended at Table)

FCA LAND ASSEMBLY PROJECT: PROPERTY EXCHANGE AGREEMENT "?94 PROJECT


WHEREAS, in connection with the industrial [and assembly project undertaken by the City
of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority at the request of the City of Detroit (the
"City"), FCA US LLC DBRA and the City have executed that certain Memorandum of
Understanding (the relating to proposed investment at the Mack Engine Plant and
Jefferson North Assembly Plant (the "Project?): and 

WHEREAS, in the MOU, DBRA and the City agreed, among other things, to execute
binding agreements to deliver title to approximately 215 acres of land adjacent to or in close
proximity to the Project site, as shown in Exhibit and

WHEREAS, in order for DBRA and the City to deliver to FCA the acreage necessary for
the Project, the EDC is being asked-to convey properties in connection with the 
acquisition of the below described parcel:

. Site 4 (owned by Fodale Group and Associates (?Fodale?)) will be acquired by the DBRA
pursuant to a series of related transactions with Fodale and its affiliates Road Land
LLC and Trident Huber, LLC (?Trident Huber?). EDC is being asked to enter into a Property
Exchange Agreement with the DBRA and Trident Huber upon the terms described in
Exhibit 8-1 attached hereto for the sale of the EDC-controlled properties described in
Exhibit 8-2 (the Trident Properties?).

 

WHEREAS, in recognition of the benefits conferred by the Project to the City and its
residents and taxpayers, EDC staff recommends the Board?s approval of the execution of a
Preperty Exchange Agreement with DBRA and Trident Huber for the sale of the EDC Trident
Huber Properties; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the terms of the proposed
transactions as described above and in the exhibits attached hereto are reasonable and
consistent with the statutory purposes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the EDC hereby
authorizes the execution of a Property Exchange Agreement with DBRA and Trident Huber,
consistent with the terms described in Exhibit 8-1, together with such terms and conditions
deemed reasonable by counsel and Authorized Agents.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes any two
of the Of?cers or any two of the designated Authorized Agents or any combination thereof to

  

accuser: otsiror?mrc'okno?non
500 Griswold, Suite 2209

Detroit, Mi 48226

 

execute any and all documents and take any and all actions necessary or appropriate to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE lT FINALLY RESOVLED that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name of the EDC and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 9, 2019

    

500 Griswoid, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

CODE EDC 19-05-13-54-

l-94 INDUSTRIAL PARK: LAND EXCHANGE WITH US ECOLOGY, INC.

WHEREAS, US Ecology inc. Ecology?) has an existing waste treatment center
located within the project area at 6520 Georgia, as shown on Exhibit A hereto; and

WHERAS, the EDC owns the following parcels that are contiguous to US Ecology?s
current operation and facility that US Ecology proposes to acquire: 6441, 6459, 6471, 6475 
6479 Debuel St. 1 8708, 8706 8676 Girardin St. 8611 Sherwood St, also shown on Exhibit A
(collectively, the Parcels?); and

WHEREAS, US Ecology owns the following parcels as further depicted on Exhibit A:
6446, 6470 6476 Debuel St. 8524 Girardin St 8605 Sherwood (collectively, the Ecology
Parcels?); and

WHEREAS, representatives from the EDC and US Ecology have negotiated the terms of
a Land Exchange Agreement (the pursuant to which the EDC will convey the
EDC Parcels to US Ecology in exchange for US Ecology's conveyance of US Ecology?s Parcels
to the EDC, (ii) each party will accept the parcels on an as-is, where-is basis; 
following closing, US Ecology will hire a contractor to remove all the debris from the EDC Parcels
and maintain the minimum setback of 10 feet from the rightuof-way at Sherwood Street; and

WHEREAS, as part of this Land Exchange, the EDC has agreed to cause the conveyance
of the eastern V2 of vacated Sherwood and repave all of vacated Sherwood adjacent to US
Ecology?s facility, as indicated in Exhibit B, at an estimated cost of seven hundred thousand
dollars which work will be contracted using customary bidding process and will
be funded from the l?94 industrial Park Project Plan budget; and

WHEREAS, upon review of the proposed terms of the Agreement, in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit C, the EDC Board has determined that the Agreement as proposed is consistent
with the statutory purposes and otherwise in the best interests of the EDC and the l~94
industrial Park Project.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board hereby authorizes any two of
its Of?cers, or any two of its Authorized Agents, or one Of?cer and any one Authorized Agent to
execute the Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, together with such
other terms and conditions not materially inconsistent with this resolution and deemed reasonable
by counsel and Authorized Agents.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board hereby authorizes any two of its
Officers or any two of its Authorized Agents or one Of?cer and any one Authorized Agent to take
any other actions and execute any other documents necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution. A

 

Econ-oats bivia?uimis?an??i
500 Griswoid. Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

    

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resotutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

May 9, 2019

