MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday May 16th, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:02 a.m.
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Quorum established at 9:15 am
Michael Curis
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Brad Dick
Motioned by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Sommer Woods
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Bud Denker
Sommer Woods
Bryan Barnhill
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to Approve Minutes for April 18th, 2018
Motioned by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Sommer Woods

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – May 16, 2019
1

 General Updates
DNR Chief Ron Olson: 5/14/19 Attended City Council Meeting for the 2018 year in review
that outlines some of the key investments made and improvements that have occurred and will
occur.
Michelle Hodges: The Detroit City Council was welcoming and our relationship with them is
maturing nicely. Some of our other members were there including Bud Denker, Rev. Peek and
Sommer Woods and it was a great presentation. Thank you to the DNR and our partners for
helping us to leverage the grants and the money allotted to us, and to the City Council for
enabling us to continue that partnership as well.
Bud Denker: Would also like to recognize Karis Floyd; felt that his articulation of the work
being done on Belle Isle was very well received. It helped to contribute to the understanding of
the value that the DNR is providing to this park daily.
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Sgt. Todd Szyska
• Will start summer staffing
• Operations as normal
• No big enforcement issues
• Would like to remind park goers to conserve your speed to 25 mph on the island
Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
• Most of the bathrooms are open though they have had some plumbing issues. They have
been experiencing low water pressure due to the City doing work. Porta johns have been
placed strategically to accommodate guests.
• Interviewing the potential candidates for the 4 ranger positions
• The community garden is about 60 percent complete
• They have hired the outdoor Explorer for Belle Isle Park
• Still seeking summer staff; please call (313) 821-9844 for opportunities. Need to be 18
years old. No driver’s license required.
Bud Denker: Were there any surprises over the winter in terms of water main breaks?
Jacob Brown: Yes, we had about 5. We have been working hand and hand with the City of
Detroit Water Department to get those taken care of. One of those breaks is over by Woodside
and because of the placement of the water main break it will be a more difficult project.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – May 16, 2019
2

 Bryan Barnhill: Would like to offer encouragement and thanks to the staff that continues to do
an excellent job maintaining the park and keeping it clean in spite of the infrastructure challenges
and flooding etc. Keep up the good work.
DNR Director, Dan Eichinger was introduced.
Friends of the Detroit River - Update on Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration Project
Sam Lovell
• In 1997 the Detroit River was recognized as an area of concern. It is known as an
international area of concern because we share the river with Canada. They are working
together to resolve the issues.
• In 2014 they compiled a plan of 14 projects to aid in removing the fish and wildlife
impairments.
• All of those projects are already completed or in a state of progress.
• An intensive study was done in advance to assess that the hydrology of the island would
support the work to be done in the Lake Okonoka Project.
• The benefits of the habitat project include the preservation of the mesic wetlands, providing
more acreage for spawning and nursery habitat for the wildlife and also 400 ft. of restored
Great Lakes shoreline along the south side of Belle Isle.
• The lake levels are at an unusual high, contributing to the current flooding on the island.
• When the culvert is built The Strand is going to be raised about 18 inches.
• Will be filling in some low areas to help with the leveling of certain areas.
Bud Denker: You mentioned raising the Strand up 18 inches. What is the time frame for that
and the culvert? If the water levels continue as they are what risk does this pose to your plans?
Sam Lovell: It wasn’t until just last week that we were able to get approval for that culvert, so it
would likely be late August before that culvert is ready to be installed. It will only take a few
short weeks to do it. The bridge will be completed in June. Though there have been challenges
and delays I think we are going to have it all wrapped up by the end of the summer. The issue of
the water levels was an unusual situation but there are plans to remediate the blockage situation.
We don’t anticipate that this will be a forever thing but if climate change is the issue, we will all
have to make an adjustment.
Q: Was there consideration for a dam? Because essentially it would have prevented this
flooding.
A: If we had a dam it would not allow fish in for spawning and nursery habitat for the wildlife.
Q: What is your explanation for the failure to regulate the flow of the river into Lake Okonoka
this oversight has caused flooding, damage to trees and also for greenspace to be unusable on the
park for park visitors. A tree has fallen on the road as a result of this negligence.
A: These projects are going to make a big difference in helping to save potentially a million
species in this next decade.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – May 16, 2019
3

 Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell
(See attached)
Outreach and Upcoming Events
Michael Terrell: The year of 2020 is almost completely booked for both the Flynn Pavilion and
the Casino.
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Michelle Hodges
• Koi Festival was very successful with the help of the youth
• The Grand Prixmiere May 31st
• Deeper Dive is June 27th featuring the Cuban Gar
• Keep Belle Isle Beautiful Initiative June 29th
• Metro Detroit Youth Day July 10th
• Kite fest July 14th
• Polish the Jewel October 10th
PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Sommer Woods:

Detroit Jet Ski where are you guys operating out of now? Are there
rules or regulations regarding jet skis? This goes back to a previous
conversation about small Detroit based businesses and them being
afforded an opportunity.

Mr. Turner:

Del Ray fishing pier.

Ron Olson:

I’m not sure who it was sent to initially, but this is something we can
review and see what’s possible and follow up on it.

Bud Denker:

I just wanted to qualify that it’s a job well done by the DNR with
capital improvements, grants and partnership initiatives. This is very
hard and difficult work so I just want to thank the staff and wish the
park a happy 100th birthday.

Michelle Hodges:

I reached out to the Auto Show in the interest of transparency, to
discuss if there are any plans for Belle Isle in association with the
Auto Show. It was stated at that time that they do not have an interest
currently. In year one they intend to stay close to their immediate
campus which would be Cobo and Hart Plaza. With that said, they
would be open to conversations about how Belle Isle can be utilized
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – May 16, 2019
4

 during the Auto Show season. We expressed our interest in having
conversations about them because we do want to be a part of that
Detroit ecosystem. If there is an important opportunity for Belle Isle
to be a part of an appropriately scaled event, we would want that.
With that said, however, I would caution everyone to please not lump
the Auto Show into the same category of any large-scale event,
meaning the Grand Prix. It is not the same thing and we would never
allow anything of that scale to come. But we do need to be open to
opportunities that make sense for the island. I hope that dispels some
of the rumors that are out there at the moment that there are NO plans
for Belle Isle. With the passing of Judge Damon Keith, I think it’s
important to outline that his values are an important part of our
history and foundation. We are very aware of the significance of
being empowered and that it can’t be squandered. We are here to do
good work. We mourn the loss of Judge Keith and we will honor him
by continuing to keep his life’s work alive.
Motion to Adjourn: No Quorum
Moved by:
Seconded by:
Meeting Concluded: 11:08 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
June 20th , 2019
Nature Center
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.
Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – May 16, 2019
5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

BELLE ISLE PARK
INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATE

Internal Affairs Building

New Belle Isle Park Headquarters

James Scott Memorial Fountain

Masonry Repairs

DNR is now moved into the new Headquarters.
Ranger staff will be working out of the White
House until the maintenance operations are
moved to the site behind new headquarters
building.

ADA Accessible walk:

Phase 2, DNR and DTMB are reviewing pricing
to complete garage work. The construction
period is 60 days.

Masonry and Structural Repairs:

The consultant is will provide draft site design
for DNR/DTMB review. Construction is
scheduled for June/July. Construction period is
estimated at 60 days.
DNR is working with Arboriculture Society of
Michigan Foundation to mill oak timbers from
the Wet-Mesic Flatwoods for seat walls at the
new office.

Belle Ilse Advisory Commit

Masonry work will be complete May 20th.
WCI has been installing Marble the last two
weeks.

$150,000 of the $400,000 raised at the 2018
Grand Prixmiere event for Fountain repairs
will fund masonry and water proofing repairs
to the fountain, cascades and concrete weir
floor.
Engineering technical writer will be retained
to complete maintenance manual for Scott
Fountain start-up and maintenance. Robert
Carpenter, DTE, has been instrumental in
starting up the fountain for the last 10 years,
this will be his last year before retirement.
DNR and BIC ensure his institutional
knowledge is documented.

1

 May 16, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

BELLE ISLE TRAILS

James Scott Memorial Fountain

ADA Accessible Walk, Substantially Complete

IRON BELLE TRAILHEAD
& IRON BELL LOOP TRAIL
The DNR and BIC are
reviewing map and
interpretive panels for
Trailhead kiosks and trail
wayfinding signs.
Funding for Phase 1 Trail
(Trailhead to Bridge) and
The Ralph C. Wilson, Jr.
Foundation has awarded
$2.6 million to construction
phase 2 of the trailhead and
phase 1 of the trail. The
Michigan Fitness
Foundation is the fiduciary
for this trail grant. To align
all funding grants for phase
one of the trail, anticipated
start date is Spring 2020.

Contractor is installing marble curbs. Punch list walkthrough scheduled for May 20th.

Phase 2 for the Trailhead
will include - The restroom
building, plaza area and
amenities.
DNR staff met with Erik
Nordin, local Detroit
sculptor to review design
scope of work for the
trailhead sculpture. The
design will include a
coordinating design at the
Ironwood trailhead on the
north terminus of the trail.
The sculpture will be funded
through the generous
support of the Ralph C.
Wilson, Jr. Foundation.

2

 May 16, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Repairs

Panoramic view of iron workers progressing with final painting of the upper truss replacement truss sections

Progress update:
•

All Steel work is complete

•

Final Painting of upper truss work is underway.
Scaffolding down 5/21/19
Tentatively next Monday for mil thickness to be
confirmed. The A/E will coordinate with DNR
for last walk through on scaffolding.

•

Electrician will be on site next week to repower – Ideal estimates less than one week will
be required. Electrical fixtures to be installed.

•

Plumbing to misters is scheduled for Monday

•

Cleanup and base grouting will occur following
scaffolding removal. Scaffolding/Shoring will
be removed the first week of June.

•

Grout Base Plates

•

Re-install Electrical

•

Re-install Mechanical Covers\

•

The dumpster of the truss sections was
removed from the site last week.

Upper truss replacement section and primer paint
coating installed.

Tension ring steel anchor bolts installed
and primer coat painted.

3

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

Belle Isle Aquarium and Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS FUNDED BY THE WILLIAM DAVISON FOUNDATION ARE UNDERWAY

1. Belle Isle Aquarium and Conservatory Drainage Study
• Contractor completed preliminary investigative work. Plumbing repairs have
been identified and drain lines that require further investigation.
2. Belle Isle Aquarium Geothermal System Feasibility Assessment
• Engineers are reviewing proposals for boring tests.
• DNR will schedule meeting with DTE and engineering consultants to review
power upgrade to Belle Isle and coordinate future power needs of facility as
needed.
3. Cost Comparison Evaluation of the original1904 Conservatory Design vs. the current
1950 design to guide future improvements of the Conservatory glazing design and
vestibule renovation
• Final report has been submitted to DNR and BIC for review.
4. Aquatic life support system evaluation
• Final report has been submitted to the DNR and BIC.

4

 May 16, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

The Detroit River
Boating Access Study

Study

• OHM has provided final draft for
DNR review.
• Draft Report has been shared with
City of Detroit GSD for review.
GSD has noted that comments will
be provided by the end of this week.
• DNR anticipates that final
comments will be submitted to OHM
by the end of the month.

Athletic Complex Handball Courts•
•
•

Architect has submitted the mesh ceiling to replace the existing ceiling. Installation of
mesh will provide for play on 4th plane.
Plans have been submitted to contractor for pricing.
Once cost estimates have been provided, plans will be submitted to DLARA for review.

Lake Okonoka Shelter and Playground Improvements –
•
•

Contractor has excavated for shelter and playground footings.
Shelter construction has been delayed due to wet weather conditions.

North Shoreline fishing:
•
•

Preconstruction meeting is scheduled for the first week in June.
Scope of work will expand to include the relocation of the kayak launch from the west side
of the canal behind the DYC to the parking area for the North Shoreline fishing area.

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS
Belle Isle Boat House – Friends of Detroit Rowing (FODR)
Physical Assessment and Facility Master Plan

• Consultant has been selected for the Boathouse master plan and physical assessment and
FODR is working to complete project contract.
DTE – Gas
• The contract is still in negotiations.
DTE – Gas
• Quinn Evans will finalize draft and incorporate results of water mainline pressure test when
complete.
5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Contd.
DTE Boring – Electric Upgrade
1. Work is completed and the DTE will finish restoring the site on the Belle Isle side of the bridge.
The boring site will be applied next week.
DTE – Electric –
1. DTE will install underground conduit, transformers and stations around island in 2019. DTE
and DNR have coordinated utility layout and work schedule. Work has already begun on
Central Ave and is anticipated to continue through October 2019.
2. DTE has installed underground conduit along Central and will be starting along the beach area
and work their way towards the south end of the island.
3. DTE will provide new service connections to facilities next in 2020.

DTE Gas
DTE Energy’s Scope of Work includes reestablishment of a permanent natural gas connection
between Belle Isle and the Main land Gas system. The new main has replaced the temporary main
currently running on the MacArthur Bridge. The temporary main has been removed and the
permanent line is complete.

6

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Cont’d.
BIC – ADA Access to the Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Garden
• The Belle Isle Conservancy has raised funds for design of ADA
access to the garden from the east and west entrances.
• Consultants have been invited to walk-through site, May 23rd.
• Contract expected to be awarded the beginning of June.
• Plans expected to be complete for Fall Garden Party.

BIC and The Arboriculture Society of Michigan Foundation – Sawmill Roof
Replacement
•
•

Quinn Evans and Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. are the architecture and structural
engineering consultants providing engineering plans to replace the Sawmill roof.
Roof Construction is to be complete this year.

McArthur Bridge Maintenance
Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)
•

Construction team will remobilize to complete sidewalk work on the bridge when DTE
permanent gas line repairs are complete.

Oudolf Garden Detroit - Piet Oudolf Garden –
Site Construction is expected to begin June 11 t h , 2019. Irrigation and planting are
scheduled for fall, 2019. The second phase of planting is anticipated for spring 2020.
The DNR is currently reviewing the perennials planting plan for the fall 2019 planting.
OGD will submit spring 2020 planting list for the wetland and stormwater planting
areas when finalized.

7

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Contd.
BIC - Belle Isle Beach Revitalization
•

Quinn Evans will finalize draft of assessment and facility and schematic. Future water mainline
pressure test will be incorporated into results of when complete.

BIC – Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Garden ADA Access
• The Belle Isle Conservancy has raised funds for engineering plans to provide ADA access to
•

the West and East end of the formal garden.
The engineering plans will be completed for the Fall Garden party Fundraising event.

8

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Contd.
Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration
- Friends of The Detroit River
The new opening of Lake Okonoka to the Detroit River has been created during a
period of the highest water level seen in the Detroit River in the last 40 years –
approaching 100-year flood level – which would have inundated the low area
around Lake Okonoka, even without the new opening. Realizing water levels go up
and down in the Detroit River, this end of the island is now expected to see natural
change as water elevations in the river fluctuate. Various measures will be
incorporated into the Lake Okonoka project during the final stage of work to
safeguard existing pathways and road infrastructure during extreme conditions like
we are now experiencing, that include;
•

The lowland section of Woodside Drive will be removed to improve hydrologic
flow between the flatwoods and Lake Okononka. This is the road that is
currently experiencing the shallow flooding that occurs on windy days. The
East and West ends of Woodside will be reconstructed to provide access to two
new picnic shelters and a play structure (funded by Michigan Natural Resource
Trust Fund.)

•

Foot paths will be raised to ensure that they will not be flooded except under
extreme conditions.

•

Additional fill is being considered in a couple locations to raise grade along the
north side of the Strand.

•

The project is anticipated to be complete in early fall 2019. The Fish Passage
Box Culvert has been approved by MDOT.

•

The box culvert fabrication will take over 2 weeks and anticipated completion
date for culvert work is now September.

Habitat Structures
at the outlet of the
future culvert. The
top of the stone
structures are at the
100 year flood
elevation

9

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

May 16, 2019

FY 2019 UPCOMING PROJECTS
1 (SAW) Stormwater, Asset Management, and Wastewater• DNR reviewing scope of work provided by DWSD for stormwater and municipal water
assessments.
• DNR and GSD will coordinate with DWSD to have work completed under existing DWSD
contract.
2. Engineering, Athletic Shelter Roof Replacement
Work ordered issued May 13th.
3. Engineering, Maintenance and Operations barn and site improvements
Work ordered issued May 13th.
4. Belle Isle Park Transportation Planning Study. The DNR will coordinate with MDOT to refine
scope of work for study.

10

 