S T A T E S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N
State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, March 19, 2019
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner-Elect Mark Anderson
Commissioner Greg Cameron (via phone)
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner-Elect Eric Finnegan
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner-Elect LaVerne Morris
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner-Elect Andrea Schwartz
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner Anne Voshel

Hines
Joffrey Ballet
AmTrust Corp.
CIM Group
ABC7
20 North State Street Condos
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Macy’s
Acadia
Department of Streets & Sanitation
AVA Consultants

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner David Reifman

DCASE
Palmer House
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)

Others Present
Michael Edwards
Laura Jones
Commander Michael Pigott
Abel Rodriguez
Sukmeke Watkins

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Police Department
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
CTA

Call to Order

SSA#1-2015 Chair Idler called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM. Introductions were made around the table.
Commissioner Cameron joined the group via phone.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

A motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, January 15, 2019 State Street Commission meeting was
made by Commissioner Voshel and seconded by Commissioner Scheinfeld. The motion carried
unanimously.
IV.

Financial Statements as of February 28, 2019

1

 Abel Rodriguez led the group through the Budget Summary in meeting packets, noting that since much of
the first installment of the SSA money has been received, he will cover the period through March 15, 2019:






As of March 15th, 42% of the 2019 SSA funding had been received, so it is likely we will have 50%
of the total funding before the second installment comes due in August.
On the revenue side, we budgeted $110,000 for the carry over line, however, the audit determined
that figure was actually $103,000 so we’re short $7,000. This means we will have to be mindful
through the year that there is less money in the budget than we planned.
SSA late collections and interest are similar to last year. DPD says that we should be receiving the
$36,674 that we budgeted last year during this year. However, what is actually happening is that
people are contesting their taxes and getting refunds. We’re not getting money, we’re losing it.
Currently, we are at a negative $19,000 – another reason to keep a careful eye on budget expenditures
this year.
Expenses at this point are routine. We haven’t gotten into much of our maintenance work yet.

Rodriguez called for questions. There were none. A motion to accept the financial statement was made by
Commissioner Voshel and seconded by Commissioner Scheinfeld. The motion passed unanimously.
V.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues


CDOT: Commissioner Scheinfeld’s report included:
- There is a banner crop of potholes this year. Please tell your constituencies to use the new
311 interface powered by Sales Force to report them. CDOT has 40 crews on the streets
attempting to keep up with requests.
- Paving season will be here by late April. IDOT may fund repaving of Michigan Avenue.
Fortunately, there are no big utility projects this year.
- CDOT is working with DCASE to coordinate lots of river walk activities. Plans are
continuing to extend the river walk to Ping Tom Park in Chinatown, which will include
coordination with the owners of private sections of property.
- The State/Lake El Station timeline is progressing. CDOT is finalizing an agreement with a
“major global architecture firm.” They have not forgotten about the community engagement
component we want to be involved with; they are just not ready yet. $75 million has been
banked for this project; more will be needed.
- Momentum is building around the pedway. For 2 years now, the Environmental Law &
Policy Center (ELPC) has worked in conjunction with CLA to lead an effort to get all of the
entities involved around a table to discuss pedway maintenance and way-finding. It’s a
tragedy of the commons – everyone benefits but no one takes care of it. ELPC commissioned
an engineering firm to do a study, which determined $10-15 million is needed for
improvements. CDOT is working on a CMAP application to fund some of the capital
investments. A 20% match is required (CDOT is holding talks with some of the private
property owners to come up with this sum.) There is also legislation moving through City
Council which would authorize CDOT Commissioner Scheinfeld and DPD Commissioner
Reifman to enter into legal agreements with these owners and Alderman Moreno is working
on formalizing hours and operations. The idea is that we will move toward forming a
pedway committee, chaired by Alderman Reilly. (Commissioner-Elect Schwartz asked if the
CMAP funding would or could be used for security in addition to capital investment and
wayfinding. Commissioner Scheinfeld replied that security was more of an issue of
coordination between private property owners and it was an ongoing Chicago Police
Department issue. We need a single entity to take control. It would be great to have an SSA
for the pedway but getting to that place takes a lot of work.)

2

 









Security: CPD’s Commander Piggot stated that in 2018 the First District finished the year with a
25% decrease in robberies, a 28% decrease in burglaries and a 3% decrease in thefts. Finishing up
the 1st Quarter of 2019, we’re at a 37% decrease in robberies in addition to that 25% from 2018,
burglaries are down 45%, but thefts are up 17%. What we’re seeing out there that explains this is that
most people walk into businesses or restaurants or bars with their cell phones and they put them down
on a counter or table. Kids with flyers come up to them and place the flyer over the phone, asking
them to “donate to their charity.” It’s a phony charity, and when the kids pick up the flyers, they also
pick up the phone and they are gone. Commander Piggot said CPD has tweeted about this and
issued community alerts. He asked everyone at the meeting today to spread the word about this scam
to ask many people possible. An iPhone goes for about $100 cash on the street; an iPhone X is worth
$200. They are then shipped overseas to be sold. There’s also a huge issue with thefts in private
parking garages. People leave their keys, backpacks and computers in unlocked cars. Kids are going
through these garages taking what they can. There’s no security or cameras videotaping them.
Again, spread the word. Finally, the festival season is starting. St. Patrick’s Day festivities went well,
although Michigan Avenue was shut down for longer than CPD would have liked. The river walk
was closed until after the dying to keep the crowd safe.
DCASE: No one from the Department of Cultural Affairs & Special Events was at the meeting to
give a report.
DPD: No one from the Department of Planning & Development was at the meeting to give a report.
Streets & Sanitation: Commissioner Tully said we’re rolling into parade season. The department
now has 4 new street sweepers. Regarding the Big Belly replacements, the new trash cans will be on
the street soon. April 27th has been designated as the citywide Clean and Green day. Streets &
Sanitation will tap into neighborhood groups and assist with their efforts to do spring clean-up and
planting.
CTA: Sukmeke Watkins said that per Commissioner Voshel’s comment at the last meeting (that it
looks horrible when the CTA keeps chaining and padlocking subway kiosk gates closed) the CTA
went back and changed the padlocks to a more attractive built-in lock on the gates, similar to that
which was used for the original State Street Renovation Project installation. She said she had no
news, however, about the repair of the escalators and opening of the two subway entrances south of
State and Madison. Laura Jones asked if the escalators behind the closed entrances on the north side
of State and Madison could be cannibalized for parts. These entrances were closed to facilitate the
construction of the CTA super station below block 37, not because the escalators needed parts.
Watkins said she would check.
Sole Service Provider: Michael Edwards pointed out the summary in meeting packets regarding the
RFP for SSA#1-2015 pressure washing services. Laura Jones went through the timeline of the
process and reported that the committee formed by the Commission to review the applicants had
recommended that the contract be awarded to Pressure Washing Systems because their bid was the
lowest and because they are a minority owned business which is experienced with providing services
in the Loop. A motion to award the contract to Pressure Washing Systems was made by
Commissioner Voshel and seconded by Chairman Idler. The motion passed unanimously. Edwards
then went over some other items:
- At the end of the CLA President’s Report in meeting packets is a list of the types of situations that
our HLSA off-duty officers/trained security guards encounter in SSA#1-2105 including issues
brought up during business checks and thwarting or detaining shoplifters. HLSA is out on the
street 3 days a week, which costs us about $100,000 per year. Commander Piggot asked if it
would be possible to do some outreach to State Street merchants. CPD is seeing an increase in
merchants, their security guards or their agents physically engaging with retail theft offenders,
and it’s escalating the theft into a robbery because people are getting punched, shoved or pepper
sprayed. In the Lids on State, management tried to lock the offenders in, but they were pushed
down and injured in the process. Maybe you can come up with some kind of recommendation to
the effect that if you don’t have a policy or trained security, don’t fight back.
3

 - Also, in the packets is a list of meeting dates for the rest of the year, a list with contact information
for all Commissioners (if anything needs to be corrected, please let CLA know), and a copy of the
Illinois Open Meetings Act.
- CLA is doing a Loop Economic Profile Update, which will be completed shortly. You will all be
receiving a hard copy.
- Another update: as many of you know, the GSA buildings on State Street were in disrepair, the
GSA did not have the budget to fix them, and so the GSA went through a disposal process which
ended with the buildings being transferred to the city. The city then went through their own
process to look for a developer. CA Ventures, a company who has redeveloped other Loop
properties, was chosen. They immediately began to stabilize the buildings. However, they have
run into a snag, which CLA was told about by the GSA themselves. A federal judge in a nearby
building does not want to see the project to go forward due to security concerns, in spite of the
fact CA Ventures has done everything they can to alleviate his concerns. The judge would prefer
that the buildings be razed and has even begun fundraising to do so. Apparently, the legal
property transfer is not complete, so the federal government still owns the buildings, the city
could walk away, and the next step would be to put the buildings up for auction or to demolish
them. Edwards asked Commissioners what, if anything, they would like their sole service
provider to do. They continue to devalue surrounding property and State Street as a whole, and
the federal government does not pay into the SSA. Commissioners discussed varied approaches,
but ultimately because the GSA still owns the property and City Hall is in transition with the
upcoming election, the decision was made that we should keep watching the situation for the time
being and that Edwards should talk to Alderman Reilly.
VI.

Other Business

The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, April 16, 2019 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7. The agenda includes a presentation on the 2018 Audit, which Commissioners must vote to accept
or reject. It is an SSA requirement that an approved audit must be sent to the city no later than May 1st.
Please plan on attending this meeting. We need a quorum to conduct this business.
VII.

Adjournment

A motion to adjourn the meeting was made at 2:50 PM by Commissioner Voshel.
Respectfully Submitted,

Ryan Segal
Secretary

4

 