Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, June 5, 2019

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-3845
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 05/22/2019
19-3602
Sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), JOHN P. DALEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO RULES CONCERNING CREATION
OF COMMISSIONS, TASK FORCES AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES

AND

AUTHORITY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Administration,

Page 1 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 5, 2019

Article 3, County Board, Division 2, Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-71 and 2-112 are
hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-71. - Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in Article III, County Board of the Cook County
Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
(a) Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Clerk means the Clerk of the County Board, appointed by the County Clerk.
(c) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed Cook County Board Commissioner, and
means the same as "member" of the Board.

Commission means any commission, task force, advisory committee authorized by the Cook County
Board pursuant to Sec. 2-112 to address an issue of concern to the County relevant to a Standing
Committee, but shall not include the Human Rights Commission, the Economic Development Advisory
Committee, the Justice Advisory Council, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board, or other
Commissions that are authorized to be permanent in nature.
(d) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special
committee and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.
(e)
division.

Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this

(f) Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a
question.
(g) Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by
law to be elected to the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Commissioners actually
serving in office. So long as 17 Commissioners are entitled to be elected to the Board, a vote of a
"majority of those elected" shall mean nine affirmative votes.
(h) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which
a higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of
Commissioners voting on a question.
(i) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Page 2 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 5, 2019

(j) Quorum means a majority of those elected (nine Commissioners when board is comprised of 17
members) shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board or a meeting of a committee of the whole.
A majority of Commissioners appointed to any committee, other than a committee of the whole, shall
constitute a quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.
(k) Secretary means the Secretary to the Board, duly appointed by the President.
Standing Committee means the standing committees provided in Sec. 2-109(i).
(l) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the
Commissioners.
****
Sec. 2-112. Commissions

(a) Effective in FY 2019 and each year thereafter, the County Board shall have the authority by
ordinance or resolution to create Commissions to address issues related or relevant to a Standing
Committee of the County Board.
(b) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee relevant to the Commission must
serve as the Chair of the Commission.
(c) Commissions shall be temporary in nature and shall not exceed 12 months in duration unless
otherwise approved by the Board.
(d) Commissions shall be staffed by the Chair of the Commission with existing resources.
(e) Commissions shall issue their reports or findings to the applicable Standing Committee.
(f) The authorizing ordinance or resolution for a Commission shall explicitly state:
(1) The purpose for which the Commission is being created;
(2) The Standing Committee to which the Commission is applicable;
(3) The number of members of the Commission and method by which they will be selected or
appointed.
(4) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee shall be the Chair of the
Commission;
(5) The date by which the work of the Commission will be completed, which shall not exceed 12

Page 3 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 5, 2019

months in duration.
(6) The length of service of the members of the Commission;
(7) The frequency the Commission shall meet which shall not be more than one time per month;
(8) That meetings of the Commission will be open to the public and comply with the requirements of
the Open Meetings Act and Freedom of Information Act;
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.
Legislative History :

5/23/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims

Page 4 of 4

 