STATE STREET COMMISSION

 

State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, January 15, 2019

 

2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present

Commissioner Greg Cameron offrey Ballet

Commissioner Paul Fitzpatrick
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner Anne Voshel

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Mark Davids
Commissioner Scott David Greenberg
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner David Reifman
Commissioner Rebekah Scheinfeld
Commissioner Jennifer Williams

Others Present
Anthony G. Ciaravino
Michael Edwards
Eric Finnegan
Judie Green

Karl Guider
Laura Jones
Connie Kalble
Robert Kearney
Torn Carney

Paul Reise

Abel Rodriguez
Mark Roschen
Andrea Schwartz
Cole Stallard
Sukmeke Watkins

I. Call to Order

11 East Partners LLC

Palmer House

Acadia

Department of Streets Sanitation
AVA Consultants

AmTrust Corp.

the 

ABC7

DCASE

Department of Flaming Development (DPD)
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Macy?s

Chicago Police Department

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)

C.I.M.

Auditorium Theatre

Chicago Public Library

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)

C.I.M.

42nd Ward

CDOT

Department of Flaming Development (DPD)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)

Department of Flaming Development (DPD)
Macy?s

Department of Streets Sanitation

CTA

Chair Anne Voshel called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM. Introductions were made around the

table.

11. Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.

 Approval of Minutes

A motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, October 16, 2018 State Street Commission meeting was
made by Commissioner Fitzpatrick and seconded by Commissioner Segal. The motion carried unanimously.
A second motion to approve the minutes from the Tuesday, October 16, 2018 Public Meeting was made by
Commissioner Fitzpatrick and seconded by Commissioner Lane. The motion passed unanimously.

IV. Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018
Abel Rodriguez led the group through the documents in meeting packets:

2018 Budget Summary as of 12/31/18: The ?rst column of this document contains what we budgeted. The
second column details actuals to date. The third column is what we completed and the amount we may be
over or under. It?s important to note that all of today?s documents are unaudited ?nancial statements. But if
the audit concurs with our numbers, we will end the year with approximately $114,000 in carry over.
Rodriguez noted that we received 99% of the levy, falling short by $25,000. The Department of Planning 
Development (DPD) placed an estimated loss collection of $34,960 in our original budget. We do not add this
amount to our budget, we just subtract it.

In July 2017, we budgeted a carry-over of 1 90,000. We ended the year with $177,000 and adjusted the budget
internally to make sure we did not go over the carry-over. Going down to the Allowance for Loss Collection,
$34,960 was the amount we did not receive in 2017. We expected to receive this amount in 2018 as late
collections and interest. However, we not receive the $34,960 and the city took $10,000 more. So, we ended
up losing approximately $118,000 that we budgeted to receive but did not receive.

Rodriguez said that he was not going to go through every line item, but he noted that every category ?came
under the budgeted expense amount except for personnel, where we were over by $7,900 because when the
2017 budget was created, we had not budgeted for a full-time PR person. However, by bringing PR in house,
we did not spend the $26,000 budgeted for a PR ?rm retainer, thus we saved $18,000.

Commissioner Fitzpatrick inquired as to why we were under the budgeted amount on the safety program.
Rodriguez replied that we had planned on hiring two more full-time ambassadors, but that money was re-
allocated to the off?duty guard/of?cer program. Also, there was some turn-over on the team and hiring the
right replacements take time.

Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018: This is a summary of the previous document. At the end of the
year, had $328,629.13 cash on hand and our payables were $214,443.63 (what the SSA owes
CLA, the sole service provider, which will be paid by the end of the week). We started the year with a carry-
over of $177,719.73. We used $63,000 of that so we should end the year with $114,185.50 in carry-over (this
is an unaudited ?gure). Rodriguez called for questions. Michael Edwards interjected an explanation for the
bene?t of Commissioners-Elect in attendance, that the SSA reimburses CLA for paying expenses. Other SSAs
have a dedicated account and invoices are paid directly from that account. However, it should be noted that
our of?cers get a list of all invoices to be paid and must approve them before they are paid.

A motion to approve the Financial Statements was made by Commissioner Segal and seconded by
Commissioner Fitzpatrick. The motion passed unanimously.

2018 Fourth Quarter Performance Metrics: All voting Commissioners received an emailed copy of these
documents prior to their inclusion in meeting packets. DPD requires sole service providers to report on line
items including the budget amounts, how much of that was spent, the vendor used, and how the sole service
provider measures the outcome or success of the program. Mark Roschen commented that this was all part of
the annual review the city does, and a lot of city departments look at these numbers. Rodriguez added that it

2

was a red ?ag for the city if more money was requested but less results were reported. A motion to approve
the Fourth Quarter metrics was made by Commissioner Lane and seconded by Commissioner Fitzpatrick. The
motion passed unanimously.

Pro?t Loss Budget vs. Actual: This packet document reconciles the budget. Time was allotted for
individuals to read the document. There were no questions. A motion to approve the Pro?t Loss Budget
vs. Actual January through December 2018 statement was made by Commissioner Cameron and seconded by
Commissioner Lane. The motion passed unanimously.

Contractor Af?davit: This document veri?es that Commissioners agree that the sole service provider,
Chicago Loop Alliance, did what they were mandated to do in 2018. A motion to attest that the work was
done was made by Commissioner Fitzpatrick and seconded by Commissioner Segal. The motion passed
unanimously. The document will be signed by both the SSA chair and the CLA CEO President and then

notarized.

New Auditor Contract: In early December, a Request for Proposals (RFP) for an SSA auditor was sent out
to 17 ?rms. The RFP was for a three-year term. CLA only received one proposal back, from our current
auditor, the A.C.T. group, who has provided this service for us for the last 12 years. bid came in
lower ($3,900 per year) than it has been in previous years. The lack of response may have been
because some ?rms had too much work currently to take on any more.

Commissioners debated the pros and cons of a one year versus a multi-year auditing contract. It takes time
and effort to issue an RFP, but it would also be good to have a new ?rm look at the numbers with fresh eyes.
Mark Roschen said that DPD doesn?t recommend vendors, but A.C.T. does the audits of multiple SSAs.
Regarding multi-year contracts, the city prefers options.

Chair Voshel called for a motion to approve A.C.T. as our audit vendor for a one-year renewable contract.
That motion was made by Commissioner Segal and seconded by Commissioner Fitzpatrick. The motion
passed unanimously.

Landscaping Contract: An RFP was also issued for landscaping. Four proposals were received, from the
incumbent Brightview and from City Escape, Christy Weber, and Moore Landscaping. A committee was
formed that included SSA Commissioners to see presentations from each company. Numbers were crunched.
The committee recommends awarding the three?year contract to City Escape, who exhibited great creativity
and came in under our budget numbers. A motion to hire City Escape was made by Commissioner Lane and
seconded by Commissioner Cameron. The motion passed unanimously.

V. Nomination of New Commissioners

Michael Edwards stated that as sole service provider, CLA is managing the process of nominating returning
and new individuals to serve 3-year private sector terms on the State Street Commission, which includes
collecting applications, ethics statements, and letters of support from our Aldermen. Nominating these
stakeholders has been discussed previously, a hard copy of a document containing biographical information
about them was included in today?s meeting packets. Commissioners re-nominated for another term include:

Dean Lane, General Manager, Palmer House

John Idler, President General Manager, ABC7 Chicago

Ann Voshel, Principal, Darn Charitable Foundation/Marc Realty
Greg Cameron, Executive Director, offrey Ballet

Ryan Segal, Senior Regional Property Manager, Acadia

New Nominees to the Commission include:

Eric Finnegan, General Manager, Block 

Mark Anderson, CPM, Property Manager, Hines (Citadel Building)
LaVeme Morris, Residential Property Owner, 20 North State Street
Andrea Schwartz, Vice President Media Relations, Macy?s

Those Commissioners not returning for another term include:

Mark Davids, General Manager, AmTrust Realty Corp.
Paul Fitzpatrick, Principal, 11 East Partners

Scott David Greenberg, President, ECD Company
Jennifer Williams, Vice President, Macy?s

Edwards said that we applaud everything that our non-retuming Commissioners have done for the SSA.
(Meeting attendees gave them a literal round of applause.) A change in seats represents a shift in major 
2015 property ownership. A motion to re-nominate the previously con?rmed Commissioners listed and to
nominate the new Commissioners listed was made by Commissioner Cameron and seconded by Commissioner
Lane. The motion passed unanimously.

Terms for of?cers are also up. Commissioners nominated to serve include:

John Idler, Chair

Anne Voshel, Vice Chair
Greg Cameron, Treasurer
Ryan Segal, Secretary

A motion to elect this slate of of?cers was made by Commissioner Segal and seconded by Commissioner Lane.
The motion passed unanimously. Before moving on to the next agenda items, Edwards pointed out the
schedule of upcoming meeting dates and city deadlines contained in meeting packets. Please
block out time on your calendars.

VI.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues

Security: Tony Ciaravino stated that the department had ended the year strong. Several action
plans were implemented, including enhanced security for the Christkindle Market, the Michigan
Avenue Lights Parade, the tree lighting ceremony in Millennium Park, Black Friday, and other events.
Extra hands were needed. New Years Eve brought a new ?reworks event on the river, poor weather
contained crowds for CPD but didn?t help tourism. There was not one incident at the river, but there
were a few at hotels, primarily between 1 and 3 AM, due to intoxication. Upcoming events include the
Jason Van Dyke sentencing this Friday. A CPD action plan takes effect on Thursday; all days off are
cancelled and units from other districts will be coming in for 5 consecutive days. There is no
intelligence that any gathering to potentially protest the sentence is being planned. On the subject of
marches and protests, fewer than 50 people have been involved in recent protests regarding a variety
of subjects, a de?nite difference from last year and having less of an impact on theatres, retailers, and
others. Commander Pigott?s 2019 theme is ?doubling down.? The First District will try to lower our
statistics further by putting robust strategies in place and doing the best we can with quality of life and
homeless issues.

DCASE: No one from DCASE was present to give a report.

Streets Sanitation: Commissioner Tully turned the report over to Cole Stallard, who reported that
the replacement trash receptacles had arrived. A few may pop up here and there, but the plan is to put
23 sets of them out in the spring to replace the Big Bellies. (Michael Edwards inquired about the bag
size for the new receptacles.) The cold winter season started with the department utilizing vehicles for
safety barricades for parades and other events in October/November. They are now preparing for 4 

4

VII.

10? of snow predicted for this Friday through Saturday, with possibly additional lake effect snowfall
on Sunday. Regarding recent pedway media attention, Fleet Facilities Management painted some
areas grey and patched the ?oor. There is a male who smoking in the pedway, and a female who tears
apart and empties garbage cans. They?ve been working with Macy?s on a group of issues. The pedway
is getting better. (Andrea Schwartz added that Macy?s has been doing some LED re-lamping to make
the area brighter. Previously, E.B. Smith, who donated the stained-glass museum, had asked for a
lower light level. Macy?s moved their Fashion Incubator to the pedway, but it is currently underutilized
because participants stopped coming after being followed. Streets Sanitation and the police are
working on this issue. The CTA is on board with pedway improvements, and hopefully with everyone
working together, there will be positive results.)

CTA: Sukmeke Watkins said there was nothing new to report. They are doing their usual pressure
washing and monitoring the stairwell near the Renaissance Hotel where there had been problems.
Escalator repairs on State Street are still too costly at this moment. Chair Voshel commented that the
CTA keeps chaining and padlocking subway kiosk gates closed, which looks horrible. She asked that
the CTA go back to using the more attractive built-in locks on the gates.

CDOT: In the absence of Commissioner Scheinfeld, Tom Carney updated the group on the State/ Lake
El Station project. The design team has been selected, but the contract is still being ?nalized so there
has been no of?cial announcement. $75 million in funding has been secured, and CDOT is still looking
to secure $25 million more. Michael Edwards conveyed to the group that it is our hope to be invited
to design charrettes in the future. This is a very visible location and aesthetics and architecture are key
considerations. He asked Carney to touch on why re-doing that station was so important; it will be a
major disruption to stakeholders. Carney cited three main reasons: because of the age of the structure,
to give it handicap accessibility, and to put it on par with other new or improved stations. Chair Voshel
asked if property owners will need to give CDOT basement access as they did with the
Wabash/Washington construction project. Carney said that was a reasonable assumption. Laura Jones
asked for an update on bollards in the Loop. Carney said that CDOT along with police, ?re, and OEMC
reps, were on a Vehicular Terrorism Task Force established by City Council. They have been working
to gather information, looking at infrastructure, and terrorism events occurring world-wide. Festivals
have been targets. They are trying to ?nd a balance between hardening security and protecting people
while being thoughtful about results by focusing on one area, you may just be moving terrorism to
another location. The city recently identi?ed a portable bollard system. They bought about 30 of them
to test at events; maybe they would be useful in a parkway instead of using a Streets Sanitation
spreader to block off an area. Identifying possible solutions is an ongoing effort of the committee.
Sole Service Provider: Michael Edwards asked Commissioners to look at the President?s Report in
their meeting packets, especially the security patrol?s section on the last pages. It is important to get a
sense of what occurs on the street and how the patrol responds. He also pointed out the Springboard
annual report. Pedestrian counts are down. In 2017, we saw 91 million people whereas in 2018 the
count was 86 million. Several factors could have contributed to the lower number, including weather
and construction. Block face reports are sent to property owners up and down the street. Finally,
volunteers are needed to serve on a committee to review the RFP replies for our pressure washing
contract. (Eric Finnegan, Connie Kable, and Cole Stallard offered to serve.) The deadline to submit
proposals to CLA is February 22, 2019. The Commission will award the contract at their March 19th
meeting.

Other Business

New Commissioners are reminded to attend the New Commissioner Training at Harold Washington Library
on February 20th from 9:00 AM to 12 Noon. Topics include the roles and responsibilities of the SSA
Commission Service Provider and the Service Provider Board, as well as DPD policies and Ethics guidelines.

The Annual Meeting will be held on Thursday, February 14, 2019 at the Hilton Chicago,
beginning at 7:00 AM. Commissioner Cameron distributed a ?yer on the February 13th 24th performances
of the offrey Ballet?s Anna Karenina

The next SSA #1 -201 5 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 19, 2019 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7.

Adjournment
A motion to adjourn the meeting was made at 3:01 PM by Commissioner Fitzpatrick.
ReSpectfully Submitted,

Ryan Sega!
Secretary

  

