STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on April 14, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of
the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to
the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MARCH 10, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the March 10, 2009 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from March 1 through March 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. L-RC-09-012
Chicago Joint Board, Local 200, Retail, Wholesale, Department Store Union/County of Cook

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a Decision and Order
on February 20, 2009, directing an election, and the Employer, County of Cook, filed an appeal. Acting
General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and recommended that the Board
uphold the Executive Director's order. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to reject the direction of
election and reopen the investigation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. Member Anderson and
Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a voice vote. Chairman Gallagher opposed.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher observed that the agency's Senate budget hearing was scheduled for April 28; she
updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency, and distributed the fiscal
report. The Chair and Members of the Board discussed the pending legislation and the fiscal report.
Member Anderson made a motion to leave open session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson made a motion to go into executive
session to discuss personnel issues. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Anderson made a
motion to leave executive session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson then made a motion to return to open session. Member
Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 5th day of May, 2009.

 