STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on March 13, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. The Board
welcomed Thomas Allen to its staff.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 7, 2012

Chairman Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the February 7, 2012 meeting. Member Sadlowski
moved to approve the minutes of the February 7, 2012 meeting. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from February 1 to February 28, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-12-016
Mathew George/County of Cook

Chairman Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post noted that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal
on November 17, 2011, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the
appeal. General Counsel Post recommended the Executive Director's dismissal be affirmed because Charging Party
showed no error in the Executive Director's reasoning. After discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to
accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-12-010
Deborah Ann Threlkeld/American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post noted that on December 29, 2011, Executive Director
Brosnan dismissed the charge which alleged a breach of the duty of fair representation. General Counsel Post
stated that Charging Party's appeal had failed to demonstrate intentional misconduct by Respondent, and he
therefore recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member
Anderson made a motion to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency.
Chairman Gierut then summarized the agency's efforts on behalf of the FY 2013 budget, in hearings before the
House and Senate appropriations committees, on March 6 and 7. After a short discussion regarding whether there
was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of April, 2012.

 