MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 14, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Friday, October 14, 2005 Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle
for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler, and James Sullivan.
The meeting convened at 9:45 A.M.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:50 P.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe announced that Representative Lou Lang was present to appear before the
Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that Representative Lang works with legislation surrounding
gaming in the State of Illinois. Chairman Jaffe stated that Representative Lang had been the
sponsor for the Board’s House Bill for independence.
Board Policy Items
Representative Lou Lang was present to discuss his view of the history of gaming in Illinois.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the legislature passed a budget last year for the Gaming Board,
which is less than “bare bones.” Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has had a difficult time
getting additional staff. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board needs more agents on the
casinos. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board only has three lawyers on staff and is also in
need of additional auditors. Chairman Jaffe stated that every agency of government
expresses their support, but saying they support the Board is not enough. Chairman Jaffe
stated that those agencies are going to have to step up and give the Board the ability to
regulate the industry. Chairman Jaffe stated that as long as the Board does not have the
bodies to regulate the industry, the Board is doing a disservice to the industry and the people
of the State of Illinois.
Representative Lang stated that he would do his best to be helpful. Representative Lang
stated that there a lots of agencies that spend a lot of money, but this Board oversees the
bringing in of a lot of money and to not have the staff that it needs to carry out its function is
simply wrong.

 Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the Board would conduct its next meeting in
Rock Island on October 18th and would take a tour of Casino Rock Island, the proposed new
site, the Big River Conservancy project and on October 19th would tour the Par-A-Dice
Casino in East Peoria.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the November 10, 2005 meeting has been
rescheduled to November 4, 2005.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Jacquelin Bernadine, who is the audit
supervisor, has announced her resignation from the Board after many years of service.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that all Staff would sorely miss Ms. Bernadine. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that Ms. Bernadine has been invaluable in helping to maintain
the integrity of audits of the casinos.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been working with the Social Investment
Policy with Member Moore.
Member Moore stated that the Gaming Board considers the many components of the Social
Investment Strategy very important. Member Moore provided the public and owner
licensees with the components of the Social Investment Policy, which included (1) employee
based diversity plan, (2) community outreach plan, (3) employee volunteer program, (4)
supplier diversity plan, (5) partnering up with local colleges to provide job opportunities or
internships, and (6) employee tuition reimbursement.
Gene O’Shea, Acting Self-Exclusion Program Director, provided the Board with an update
on the Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. O’Shea stated that there are currently 2,808 persons
enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. O’Shea stated that there has been 396 incidents
where people have returned to the casinos after being self-excluded resulting in 70 arrests.
Mr. O’Shea reported that there are two new enrollment sites. Mr. O’Shea stated that there are
now 25 sites throughout the State of Illinois.

Owner Licensee Items
Casino Queen- Request to Relocate off of Mississippi River – Tom Monahagn, General
Manager, and Jeff Watson, General Counsel, were present on behalf of Casino Queen to
request to relocate off of the Mississippi River.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve the Request by Casino Queen to Relocate off of the Mississippi River to
a location in the Southwest portion of its current parking facility as described in its
September 19, 2005 request for final approval. Member Gardner seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
2

 Hollywood Casino – License Renewal – Rodney Phillipe, General Counsel, and Pat
Medchill, General Manager, were present on behalf of Hollywood Casino to request approval
for license renewal.
Member Winkler expressed his concerns in the lack of involvement that Hollywood Casino
has in the surrounding communities and the small donations made to charitable
organizations. Member Winkler stated that the dollar amount of donations made to the
community is ridiculous considering the profits that the Hollywood Casino makes.
Mr. Medchill stated that the information that the Board has does not include all of the
spending that is done at the end of the year. Mr. Medchill stated that Hollywood’s budget is
and always has been for approximately $200,000, and Hollywood plans to meet that budget
by the end of the year. Mr. Medchill stated that the donations that Member Winkler is
referring to are only Hollywood’s cash contributions. Mr. Medchill stated that there are
many other things that Hollywood participates in. Mr. Medchill stated that he believes that
Hollywood is the largest contributor in the City of Aurora.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve the renewal of the Owner's License of Hollywood Casino – Aurora, Inc.
for a term of 2 years commencing retroactively to December 2004, expiring on
December 31, 2006. I move that the Board impose the following conditions:
1. Until further notice HCA shall submit to the Administrator
monthly affidavits, which confirm that HCA has downloaded any
additions and or corrections from the Illinois Gaming Board and
that these additions and corrections have been incorporated into
HCA’s master in house self-exclusion list and that all-relevant
departments within HCA have a copy of the updated self-exclusion
list.
2. HCA is required to submit to the Administrator documentation
of the retraining of managers on incidents of hostile work
environment. In addition, HCA is required to
submit quarterly reports regarding incidents of hostile work
environment and reports of manager and employee dating
relationships.
3. HCA will ensure adequate representation of females and
minority persons at all levels, including at the senior management
level, to reflect the diversity of the communities in which it
operates.
4. Within 60 days, HCA shall provide a comprehensive social
investment plan that is approved by the Board.
3

 5. HCA will report to the Illinois Gaming Board on a quarterly
basis on the progress of its social investment plan until further
notice.
Further, the Board designates and approves the following entities, positions, and
persons as Key Persons:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Penn National Gaming, Inc.;
Argosy Gaming Company, Inc.;
Director(s) of Alton Gaming Company;
Director(s) of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation;
President of Alton Gaming Company;
President of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation;
Executive Vice President of Operations of Penn National
Gaming;
8. Regional Director/Internal Audit – Midwest Region;
9. Peter M. Carlino;
10. Kevin G. DeSanctis; and
11. Leonard M. DeAngelo.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Hollywood Casino –Aurora, Inc. - Rochelle G. Manolo, Internal Auditor – Level One –
Rodney Phillipe, Attorney, and Ms. Manolo were present to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Rochelle G. Manolo as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Hollywood Casino – Aurora, Inc. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Harrah’s Casino Joliet – Joseph A. Domenico, Senior Vice President and General Manager –
Level One – Tom Thanas, Attorney, and Joseph A. Domenico were present to request
approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Joseph A. Domenico as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Harrah’s Casino Joliet – Darren E. Vandover, Vice President of Operations – Level One –
Mr. Vandover was present on behalf of himself to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Darren E. Vandover as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
4

 Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Moore inquired about the number of Level One positions at Harrah’s Casino. Tom
Thanas, Attorney, stated that he believes that Harrah’s has approximately seven Level One
positions. Member Moore asked if minorities filled any of the Level One positions. Mr.
Thanas stated that none of the Level One positions are filled by minorities at Harrah’s Joliet.
Harrah’s Casino Joliet – Timothy W. Bryant, Vice President of Finance & Administration –
Level One - Mr. Bryant was present on behalf of himself to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Timothy W. Bryant as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Harrah’s Casino Joliet – Michael C. Ashum Jr., Senior Auditor – Level One – Tom Thanas,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Mr. Ashum to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Michael C. Ashum as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Gardner stated that he supports his fellow Board members and their concerns
regarding Harrah’s Level One management and its lack of diversity.

Supplier Licensee Item
Osborne Coinage Company – License Renewal – Thomas Stegman, CFO of Osborne Coinage
Company was present to request approval for license renewal.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve the Supplier’s license of Osborne Coinage Company for a term of 4 years
commencing retroactively to December 2004.
Osborne Coinage Company is granted approval to provide the following gaming
equipment to Illinois licensees:
1. Slot Tokens;
2. IDX Coin Acceptors; and
3. Table Game Chips.

5

 Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions and people as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

President;
Chief Executive Officer;
Thomas E. Stegman;
Jeffrey J. Stegman; and
Todd R. Stegman.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licenses Approvals & Denials
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 31 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 162 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• Angela Elmore, Security Guard

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Angela Elmore, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her conviction for Obstructing a Peace Officer.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Ms. Elmore’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Moore
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearing/ALJ Reports

• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Emerald Casino, Inc., DC-01-05 and In Re in The Matter
of the Denial of the Renewal of the Owner’s License of Emerald Casino, Inc., GL-01-01 Motion to Disqualify ALJ Abner Mikva
Member Gardner moved that the Board deny Emerald Casino, Inc.’s Motion to
Disqualify Administrative Law Judge, Abner J. Mikva and issue a written order
consistent therewith. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
6

 Public Commentary
Langdon D. Neal, Neal & Leroy, LLC was present to represent the statutory minority
investors. Mr. Neal read a prepared statement regarding the statutory applicants and their
position in protecting their interests by pursuing various legal options during the bankruptcy
proceedings. Mr. Neal stated that the position of the statutory applicants has been consistent
in that the 10th license should be transferred to a new ownership group in a location
acceptable to the Board. Mr. Neal respectfully suggested that it is in the interest of all
citizens of the State of Illinois that the Board act promptly to sell the license and allow it to
be used to produce critically needed revenue.
Board Policy Items (cont.)
Proposed Rulemaking: Digital Surveillance – Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff
would be sharing the digital surveillance proposed language with the owner licensees in a
draft form and would then come back to the Board for a vote before it is filed with the
Secretary of State.

At 3:15 P.M. Member Winkler moved that the Board reconvene into Closed session.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 3:40 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

7

 