MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
June 17, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on June 17, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Violet Clark, Gary Peterlin and William Dugan.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the June 17, 2003 Regular Meeting at 9:40 A.M. in the 3 rd
floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (June 17, 2003) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:10 P.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom stated that a few months ago several vendors made a presentation to
the Board regarding ticket vouchering technology. Chairman Higginbottom announced that
today (June 17, 2003) Jeannette Tamayo, Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, would announce
what Staff intends to have in place by the end of the summer. Chairman Higginbottom
encouraged the licensees to consider re-training employees whose positions may be directly
affected by the technology. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board hopes that the new
technology does not put people out of employment and that the licensees could help prevent
that by re-training their employees for other positions. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
the use of the technology would not be to strictly increase the profits of the licensee, but to
improve operations.

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is sure that the public is aware of the correspondence
that was sent to both the Governor’s Office and Attorney General Madigan’s office regarding
the Emerald Casino’s reorganization plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the plan that
was submitted on May 20, 2003 is a plan that is supported by the Board. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that as the legal process moves forward, the Board hopes to reach a
conclusion that will be positive for all of the citizens of the State of Illinois. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that throughout the entire process, the Board has adhered to its policy of
having this license sold in an open, competitive, and fair process with all of the communities
and stakeholders having an opportunity to bid for the 10th license.

Public Commentary
Wayne Burdick, President, Outreach Foundation, was present to update the Board on the
activities of the foundation. Mr. Burdick stated that the foundation has been reaching out
more to the senior citizen population.
Mr. Burdick thanked the Board for its Self-Exclusion Program and stressed the importance of
the program.
Mr. Burdick thanked Craig Travers, President, Casino Queen, for making it possible for the
foundation to conduct a Financial Pressure Release Seminar at Casino Queen. Mr. Burdick
stated that the seminar showed persons with gambling addictions how to get their finances
back in order.
Mr. Burdick discussed funding issues for the Outreach Foundation. Mr. Burdick stated that
the foundation has worked with HRDI and other people in the state to put a coalition together
and go out and seek appropriations out of the gaming funds.
Mr. Burdick stated that people are calling the Outreach Foundation for help, and that the
foundation distributes close to 100,000 pieces of literature. Mr. Burdick stated the
foundation has had the opportunity to help a lot of people.
Board Policy Items
Jeannette Tamayo, Deputy Chief Legal Counsel stated that since the ticket vouchering
technology was last addressed during Open Session, Staff have received public comments
from a number of suppliers, the Illinois Casino Gaming Association, and advocates who are
for and against the technology. Ms. Tamayo presented to the Board the comments received
from the public.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff believes that the technology that the Board currently authorizes
is technology that Staff could regulate, monitor, and enforce and that it needs the certification
of testing requirements. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff has also tried to make sure that there is

2

 no sole source, and that no supplier or casino operator is given preference, with regards to
what is available. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff is asking for authority to file the revised rule.
Member Peterlin stated that he appreciated all of the hard work that Ms. Tamayo performed.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that summarizing all of the public comments regarding the
technology was a very lengthy process. Chairman Higginbottom commended the Staff and
Ms. Tamayo on their hard work.
TICKET VOUCHERING TECHNOLOGY – SECOND NOTICE FILING – Member
Peterlin moved that the Board authorize staff to submit the following Board Rules for
Second Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review of the revisions discussed
today and approval by the Administrator: 3000.100, 3000.140, 3000.165, 3000.200,
3000.210, 3000.270, 3000.280, 3000.320, 3000.600, 3000.635, 3000.636, 3000.640, 3000.655,
3000.660, 3000.666, 3000.670, 3000.800, 3000.1010, 3000.1050, 3000.1060.
Member Peterlin further moved that the Board authorize staff to submit the following new
rules for Second Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review of the revisions
discussed today and approval by the Administrator: 3000.272, 3000.285, 3000.661,
3000.665, 3000.667, 3000.671. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

Ms. Tamayo stated that two bills were passed by the General Assembly but that neither, to date,
has been signed into law. Ms. Tamayo stated that depending on the timing of when it is signed
into law and the Governor’s decision to make it effective, Staff might need emergency
rulemaking authority. Ms. Tamayo stated that Senate Bill 1606 raises the admissions tax and
increase the gaming wagering taxes. Ms. Tamayo stated that Sentate Bill 1607 allows any
muncipality that borders the Mississippi River to move within five miles of the muncipality of
which its located; it sets up a new managers license and bidding procedure for a re-issued
license; and it modifies the admissions tax. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff does not yet know
which of the two bills the Governor is going to sign; however, Staff is asking for emergency
rule-making authority to adopt the wagering tax and the admission tax provisions so that they
become effective for whatever effective date the Governor deems appropriate. Ms. Tamayo
stated that Staff would come back before the Board in July with recommendations on how to
implement the substantive provisions.
S.B. 1607 AND 1606 – EMERGENCY RULEMAKING – Member Clark moved that the Board
authorize the adoption of rules on an emergency basis and concurrently authorize the First
Notice submission of proposed rules with the Secretary of State for publishing the
amendments to Board Rule 3000.1071 regarding admission and wagering tax upon S.B.
1606 and 1607 becoming law. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

3

 Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS CASINO – MARIA CATANIA, INTERNAL AUDITOR - LEVEL ONE – James
Butler, Corporate Counselor, and Maria Catania were present on behalf of Ms. Catania to request
approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board approve Maria Catania as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Empress Casino
Joliet Corporation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC. – Tom Thanas, Attorney, was present on behalf of
Charles H. Barry to request approval as a Key Person.
CHARLES H. BARRY, CORPORATE DIRECTOR OF INVESTIGATIONS AND SECURITY
MANAGEMENT – KEY PERSON - Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and
recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board approve Charles H. Barry as a Key
Person of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Supplier Licensee Items
ARISTOCRAT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. – REQUEST FOR RENEWAL – Donna More,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. to request approval for renewal
of Aristocrat’s supplier’s license.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve the Supplier’s license of Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. for a term of 4 years
expiring June 2007.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board certify and approve the following positions and entities as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chief Executive Officer;
Chief Operating Officer;
Aristocrat Leisure Limited; and
Aristocrat International Proprietary Limited.

Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. to
manufacture, sell or lease EGD’s to licensed riverboat casino’s in the State of Illinois,
pursuant to the requirements set out in the Board’s Adopted Rules. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

4

 Self-Exclusion List
NAZHA MOSALLAM – REQUEST REMOVAL FROM STATEWIDE EXCLUSION LIST –
Upon a showing of good cause and counsel’s recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board grant Nazha Mosallam’s request to be removed from the Statewide Exclusion List.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve 39 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 199 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to the following six applicants for Level 2 & 3 licenses, each of whom
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

James Blomberg;
Jeremy Basham;
Kathleen L. Kuykendall;
Myong S. Wieneke;
Lacey J. Woodall; and
Lisa Hargan.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
CARLOS BERRIOS – REQUEST TO RE-APPLY FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE
AFTER REVOCATION - Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Clark moved that the Board grant permission to Carlos Berrios to reapply for a license to
work on an Illinois Riverboat, subject to all the requirements of Board Rule 3000.245
and any other applicable rule or law. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
In Re The Disciplinary Action of William Malone

Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against William Malone, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to William Malone’s May 13, 1985 felony
conviction.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke William Malone ’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Andre Davis
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Andre Davis, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Andre Davis’ April 3, 2002 felony
conviction.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Andre Davis’ occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of James Willis
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against James Willis, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to James Willis’ March 7, 2000 theft
conviction.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke James Willis’ occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

6

 In Re The Disciplinary Action of Daisy Martin
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Daisy Martin, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted
Rules in relation to Daisy Martin’s March 11, 2002 theft conviction.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Daisy Martin’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Randolph Cherry
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Randolph Cherry, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Randolph Cherry’s October 5, 2002 act of
stealing $160 from the Alton Belle Casino hard-count room.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Randolph Cherry ’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Allison Dixon
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Allison Dixon, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Allison Dixon’s July 15, 2002 theft
conviction.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Allison Dixon’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Gregory Sweetin
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Gregory Sweetin, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and

7

 the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Gregory Sweetin’s November 8, 2002 theft
conviction.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Gregory Sweetin ’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Antonio Villafuerte
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Antonio Villafuerte, the holder of a Level 3
occupational license issued under the name Robert Perez, for failing to comply with the
Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Antonio
Villafuerte’s April 6, 2000 act of applying for an occupational license using false
identification.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke the occupational license issued to
Antonio Villafuerte under the name Robert Perez. Said action will take affect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee files an answer
within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Kerry Garmann
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Kerry Garmann, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted
Rules in relation to Kerry Garmann’s November 25, 2002 theft conviction.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Kerry Garmann’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Virginia Ritz
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Virginia Ritz, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Virginia Ritz’s February 16, 2002
admission that she appropriated $2000 from Grand Victoria Casino.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Virginia Ritz’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint

8

 unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

In Re the Disciplinary Action of Shannon South
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Shannon South, a Level 3 Occupational
License, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his theft of tip
monies from his employer, Harrah’s Joliet Casino.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Mr. Shannon’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
In Re the Disciplinary Action of Wayne Shevokas
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Wayne Shevokas, a Level 3 Occupational
License, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his theft of
monies from his employer, Harrah’s Joliet Casino.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Mr. Shevokas’ Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:06 P.M., Member Clark moved to adjourn. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 