MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 9, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 9, 2002 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Ira Rogal, Tobias Barry, Violet Clark, and Gary Peterlin.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the October 9, 2002 Regular Meeting at 9:32 A.M. in the
3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Rogal moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (October 9, 2002) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:10 P.M.

 Approval of Minutes
Member Rogal moved that the Board approve the following closed session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board:

• Closed Session Minutes:
-

Regular Meeting of September 4, 2002
Special Meeting of September 10, 2002

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Rogal moved that the Board approve the following open session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board:

• Open Session Minutes:
-

Regular Meeting of September 4, 2002
Special Meeting of September 10, 2002

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom offered his thanks to former Chairman Greg Jones for his fine work
while serving as Chairman for the Gaming Board. Chairman Higginbottom wished Mr.
Jones the best and stated that he, as well as the other Board members, were grateful for Mr.
Jones’ dedication to the Gaming Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Mr. Jones’
insight and guidance helped to direct the Gaming Board during a time that it faced complex
issues. Chairman Higginbottom ensured the public that Mr. Jones’ ideas and his high
standards would live on through the Board and members of the Board’s staff. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that he wanted the public and the gaming industry to know that the
Board would remain committed to the course that Mr. Jones set regarding the 10th license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board remains hopeful that Emerald would submit a
reorganization plan to the federal bankruptcy judge that is consistent with the settlement
agreement that the Board entered into with Emerald. Chairman Higginbottom further stated
that the Board remains committed to a fair and open competitive sales process regarding
Emerald’s license.

2

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that Mr. Jones was instrumental in creating the SelfExclusion Program, which allows problem gamblers to self-exclude themselves from Illinois
riverboat casinos. Chairman Higginbottom stated that, under Mr. Jones’ direction, the Board
adopted a rule creating the Self-Exclusion Program, which began July 1, 2002. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that over 60 people have enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program since
its implementation and that the Board expects that number to increase. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that each person who has enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program
represents a life that has taken a turn for the better. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
persons who have enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program, and the thousands more that are
expected to enroll, could thank Mr. Jones for his leadership in establishing the program and
advocating for the State’s support in funding programs that help problem gamblers.
Chairman Higginbottom applauded Mr. Jones’ dedication to the service of the people of the
State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom introduced a new Board member, Gary Peterlin, to the public.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Member Peterlin was appointed to the Board by
Governor Ryan on September 6, 2002. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Member Peterlin
is a former Illinois Assistant Attorney General and served as State’s Attorney for LaSalle
County for two terms (1980 – 1988). Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is looking
forward to working with Member Peterlin.
Administrator Parenti welcomed Chairman Higginbottom as the new Chairman.
Administrator Parenti stated that Chairman Higginbottom has been a longstanding Board
member who has been involved in the complex issues relating to the 10th license.
Administrator Parenti stated that Chairman Higginbottom’s business acumen would
contribute greatly to the Board.
Administrator Parenti welcomed Member Peterlin.
Board Policy Items
WEAPONS ON RIVERBOAT - Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette Tamayo, stated that
last year the Board authorized the filing of an amendment to Board Rule 3000.180, whereby
the words “security personnel licensed by the Board” were deleted, making it clear that only
Gaming Board agents would be authorized to carry weapons on riverboat casinos. Ms.
Tamayo stated that Board Rule 3000.180 went through First and Second Notice with no
objections filed, and Joint Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR) had issued
permission to file. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff is requesting permission to file a Certificate
of Adoption of an Amended Rule to include in a new rulemaking book that would be
published soon.
Second Notice having been filed, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize the final
adoption and publishing of the proposed Rule 3000.180 as revised. Member Barry
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

3

 TAX INCREASE – 2ND NOTICE FILING AND SUBSEQUENT ADOPTION – Ms.
Tamayo stated that Staff filed two rules in July 2002 regarding tax increase, one was an
emergency amendment to make the tax increase effective July 1, 2002, and the second filing
was the routine rulemaking process. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff is at a point where they
could file a Second Notice with the JCAR. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff did not receive
comments during the open comment period.
Ms. Tamayo stated that because of a timing issue, JCAR had moved their meeting from
November 12, 2002 to November 19, 2002, which is the same day as the Gaming Board’s
November 2002 Regular Board Meeting. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff is requesting
permission from the Board to file Second Notice, and assuming that there are no objections
from JCAR, Staff is also requesting permission to file for adoption of the rule immediately
thereafter. Ms. Tamayo stated that otherwise the rule would expire on November 26, 2002.
Member Clark moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.1071
as revised for Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Member Clark further moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing
of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made to this rule during
the Second Notice process. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
TICKET VOUCHERING TECHNOLOGY – DISCUSSION OF PROPOSED
RULEMAKING - Ms. Tamayo stated that at the November 19, 2002 Regular Board
Meeting, ticket vouchering would be placed on the agenda under public discussion. Ms.
Tamayo stated that in the future Staff would be seeking the Board’s permission to submit
proposed rules regarding ticket vouchering.
Ms. Tamayo gave a summary of the ticket vouchering technology. Ms. Tamayo explained
that the technology allowed a patron to retrieve either tokens from a slot machine or a printed
voucher. Ms. Tamayo stated that the printed voucher could be inserted into other slot
machines and converted into electronic credits or cashed out with a cage cashier. Ms.
Tamayo stated that the bill validators, which currently accept only U.S. currency, have the
capacity to receive the new vouchers and would be able to verify the voucher’s validity. Ms.
Tamayo stated that there is a barcode that contains significant information that would prevent
the voucher from being duplicated or paid out twice.
Ms. Tamayo stated that other jurisdictions have adopted ticket voucher technology and that
Illinois licensees requested it over a year ago. Ms. Tamayo stated that the licensees would
phase the new technology into their operations. Ms. Tamayo stated that the phase-in would
probably occur within the next year or so.
Ms. Tamayo stated that the ticket voucher technology would require significant changes to
Internal Control Systems, specifically a redeployment of casino staff as fewer casino staff
would be needed to perform hard drops and hard counts.
4

 Ms. Tamayo stated that because the technology changes the way the electronic gaming
devices operate, Staff would be requesting rule-making authority to (1) license Slot
Information Systems; (2) require electronic gaming devices’ computer systems to be certified
by independent laboratories, including all of the “back-of-the-house” computer functions;
and (3) enhance certification for computer security at each licensee.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff has been working on draft rules. Ms. Tamayo stated that some
of the changes are technical in nature and merely require adding the word “voucher” to
different sections of the Rules. Ms. Tamayo stated that other changes are significant and
require new rules that are specifically designed for ticket voucher technology. Ms. Tamayo
stated that Staff would be working with the Illinois Casino Gaming Association and its
ticketing committee to attempt to resolve any concerns that it may have with regards to the
rulemaking.
PROPOSED LEGISLATION - Ms. Tamayo stated that every year the Governor’s office
requests comments from the Gaming Board regarding proposed legislation. Ms. Tamayo
stated that the comments would also be included in the transition report for the incoming
Governor. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff is requesting permission to file the same legislative
proposals that Staff has filed with the Governor’s office for approximately the last 3 to 4
years.
Ms. Tamayo stated that there are sections in the proposed legislation that deal with
ownership interests, including (1) strengthening the provisions regarding the Board’s ability
to regulate ownership interests, (2) permitting the Board to force an individual owner to
relinquish the ownership interest as opposed to denying the license, (3) statutorily
authorizing fines in relation to undisclosed or unauthorized agreements or contracts, (4)
creating a Class 4 felony for violations of ownership disclosure, and (5) approval
requirements. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff was also seeking provisions dealing with owner
licensee contracts that would give the Board more authority to ensure contracts meet fair
market value.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff has adopted Rule 3000.238 regarding court appointed receivers.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would be asking for authority under the statute to strengthen the
Rule’s provisions.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would also like the authority to strengthen provisions on
denying access to persons under age 21 to the riverboat casinos, making it a petty offense
with a set fine for any violations. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would also like to prevent
employees under the age of 21 to work in the gaming area of the riverboat casinos.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would like to have a graduated fee schedule of no more than
$5,000 for the supplier licensees.

5

 Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would also like to amend the Riverboat Gambling Act to
include the Self-Exclusion Program and create a new trespass offense for entering a riverboat
operation after a person has been placed on the self-exclusion list. Ms. Tamayo stated that as
it relates to the Self-Exclusion Program, Staff would like to limit the liability to both the
Board and the owner licensees for compliance with enforcement provisions in the SelfExclusion Program.
Ms. Tamayo stated that other provisions that Staff is requesting that require changes in the
Riverboat Gambling Act involve (1) daily deposit times; (2) the application process; (3)
including local community colleges in establishing gaming trade programs; (4) clarifying
technicalities with regards to gaming equipment, and gaming supplies; (5) admission taxes;
and (6) appropriation of funds to the Board. Ms. Tamayo stated that it is Staff’s intentions to
submit the proposed legislation to the Governor’s office unless the Board has any objections.
Member Rogal asked if the Board currently has statutory authority to charge a license fee to
a person who is acquiring an owners license.
Ms. Tamayo stated that there is an initial application fee and a renewal fee, but there is not a
fee specifically for a person wanting to acquire a license through transfer. Ms. Tamayo
stated that Staff could recommend such a fee as part of the proposed legislation.
Member Rogal suggested that such a provision might be appropriate to submit for proposed
legislation.
Ms. Tamayo and Administrator Parenti discussed discretion with regards to occupational
licensees and, in particular, discretion with respect to disqualifying violations.
Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS CASINO – PROPOSED BARGE PROJECT – James Butler, General Counsel of
Argosy Gaming Company, was present on behalf of Empress Casino to request approval to
proceed with its proposed barge project.
Pursuant to Board Rule 3000.230(d), Member Rogal moved that the Board authorize
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation to proceed with its proposed barge project. The
approval of the proposed barge project is subject to Empress Casino Joliet Corporation
from time to time, as directed by staff, updating the Board on the progress of the
construction and Empress Casino Joliet Corporation obtaining final approval from the
Board of its barge construction when the project has been completed and Empress
Casino Joliet Corporation has obtained approval of its structure from the State Fire
Marshall, U.S. Coast Guard and other appropriate authorities. Member Barry seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

6

 Supplier Licensee Items
BALLY GAMING, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL – Cory Aronovitz, Attorney, and Mark
Lerner, General Counsel and Secretary of Alliance Gaming Corporation, were present on
behalf of Bally Gaming, Inc. to request approval for Bally’s license renewal.
Mr. Lerner addressed prior concerns that the Board had with Bally and stated that Bally takes
the concerns seriously. In particular, Mr. Lerner addressed the timeliness and accuracy of
quarterly reports.
Administrator Parenti noted Bally’s steps to correct its quarterly report filings.
Administrator Parenti inquired about Bally’s corporate status with the Illinois Secretary of
State.
Mr. Lerner stated that Bally’s filing status had been revoked in the past due to questions
concerning annual report filings. Mr. Lerner stated that the status has since been restored.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve a restricted Supplier’s license of Bally Gaming, Inc. for a term of 1 year
expiring October 2003 and impose the following conditions:
1. Bally Gaming, Inc. shall timely file and/or provide all
appropriate and required documents requested by the
Illinois Gaming Board.
2. Bally Gaming, Inc. shall also file all documents relevant to
its corporate status that are requested and required by the
Illinois Secretary of State.
In the event that Bally Gaming, Inc. fails to make an appropriate and timely request as
specified in Board Rule 3000.405 for a hearing within 5 days of delivery of the written
restriction of licensure, this action of the Board shall become the final action of the
Board restricting the Suppliers license application for one year.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board certify and approve the following entities, position and person as Key
Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Alliance Gaming Corporation;
Alliance Holding Company;
Bally Gaming International, Inc.;
Chief Executive Officer; and
Mr. Robert L. Miodunski.

7

 Member Peterlin further moved that the Board authorize Bally Gaming, Inc. to sell,
manufacture or lease the following products in the State of Illinois:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

All S6000 Slot Machines (slants and uprights);
All V7200 Video Poker Machines;
All EVO gaming machines;
All EVO hybrid machines; and
Mikohn progressive equipment (for near area progressives).

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Occupational Licensees

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 45 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 122 applications
for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Clark further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice
of Denial to the following applicant for Level 3 license, who previously received
notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or
provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.

Francisco Rosales

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF INTERNATIONAL GAMING TECHNOLOGY
– Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against International Gaming Technology
(“IGT”), a Supplier Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to IGT’s failure to meet an Administrator-mandated, 30-day
deadline to replace revoked IGT EPROMs.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board fine IGT $29,700.00. Said action to take
affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint unless the licensee
files an answer within that time period. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF BALLY GAMING, INC. – Based on a review of
staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint against Bally Gaming, Inc. (“Bally”), a Supplier Licensee, for
failing to comply with the Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Bally’s
failure to meet an Administrator-mandated, 30-day deadline to replace revoked Bally
EPROMs.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board fine Bally $8,600.00. Said action to take
affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint unless the licensee
files an answer within that time period. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:00 P.M., Member Rogal moved that the Board adjourn. Member Barry seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

9

 