STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on November 15, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.
PRESENT
Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director by telephone; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD October 11, 2012
III.
Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the October 11, 2012 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its highlights.
The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1. Case No. L-RC-11-003
Teamsters Local Union 700/ County of Cook, Oak Forest Hospital
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Alabi’s RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2. Case No. L-RC-11-019
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ County of Cook
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Bell’s RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3. Case No. L-UC-13-001
Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC/ County of Cook
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4. Case Nos. L-CA-11-059,064,065,071
Sherise Hogan/ Chicago Transit Authority
Chairman Gierut recused himself. General Counsel Post called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to
ALJ Bell’s RDO, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board
declined to do so.

 5. Case No. L-CB-10-014
Laura Foster/ Local 8A-28A, International Union of Painters & Allied Trades
Chairman Gierut recused himself. General Counsel Post called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to
ALJ Kazanjian’s RDO, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The
Board declined to do so.

6. Case No. L-CA-12-067
Karl Cook/ Chicago Transit Authority
Case No. L-CB-12-050
Karl Cook/ Amalgamated Transit Authority, Local 241
Chairman Gierut called the case, with the help of Counsel Steven’s memo, General Counsel Post presented the case
and stated that on June 18, 2012, the Executive Director dismissed two related unfair labor practice charges filed by
the Charging Party. The first charge, L-CA-12-067, alleged that the Employer was in violation of Section 10(a) of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. The second charge, L-CB-12-050, alleged that the Union, was in violation
of Section 10(b) of the Act. After presenting the issues in the appeal filed by the Charging Party, General Counsel
Post recommended that the Board accept the dismissals of the two charges. After discussion, Member Lewis moved
to accept the Executive Director’s dismissals. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
7. Case No. L-CB-13-007
Megan Curry/ Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
September 10, 2012, the Executive Director dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party, in which she alleges that
the Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. After presenting the issues of the
Charging Party’s appeal, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board reverse the dismissal and remand for
further investigation. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept General Counsel Post’s
recommendation to reverse the dismissal and remand for further investigation. Member Lewis seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.
OTHER BOARD MATTERS
After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
ADJOURNMENT
VII.
Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Lewis made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of December, 2012.

2

 