MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
October 18 and 19, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, October 18, 2010 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held at the Alton Gaming Corporation in Alton, Illinois.
On Monday, October 18, 2010 at approximately 1:00 P.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James
Sullivan. At 1:22 P.M. on Monday, October 18, 2010, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1. Personnel matters;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 2:53 P.M.
On Tuesday, October 19, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 9:02 A.M. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan
and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 9:30 A.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 10:00 A.M. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 15, 2010. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe thanked the staff at the Alton Gaming Corporation for welcoming the Board and
IGB staff. He commended the General Manager, Alton staff, and the IGB staff for a great
facility.

 ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski thanked the Alton Gaming Corporation for inviting the IGB to hold its
October meeting at the facility. The Administrator also stated that the Board will hold a Special
Meeting on October 25, 2010 referencing video gaming rules and other agenda items at the
Chicago, Illinois office.
The Administrator also stated that the November Regular Board meeting will be held on
November 15 and 16, 2010 at the Chicago offices.
The Administrator also stated that Western Money Systems, Inc. was removed from the agenda.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Alton Gaming Corporation, General Manager, Richard Laudon

Mr. Laudon welcomed the Board and staff. He went on to introduce the following;
John V. Finamore, Sr. Vice President, Regional Operations, Penn National Gaming;
James Gray, Chairman & President, NAACP – Alton Branch;
Missy Churchman, VP Illinois Region for United Way Greater St. Louis; and
Robin Summers, Executive Director, American Red Cross, S.W. Illinois Chapter.
Mr. Laudon also acknowledged the management staff of Argosy and asked them to stand.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Items for Initial Consideration –
●

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – RBLP Phase 1 Restructuring
Transaction

Mr. Ed Winkofsky of Greenberg Traurig appeared on behalf of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a
Grand Victoria Casino and requested initial consideration of the RBLP Phase 1 restructuring.
●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. – Transfer of Shares

Mr. Ed Winkofsky of Greenberg Traurig appeared on behalf of Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. and
requested initial consideration of the licensee’s request to transfer shares.
Items for Final Consideration –
●

Gregory Backstrom, Level 1- Alton Gaming Company – IT Manager
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Gregory Backstrom as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the

2

 position of IT Manager for Alton Gaming Company, in Alton, Illinois. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

Stacy Ann McGava, Level 1 –Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation – Senior Internal Auditor
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Stacy Ann McGava as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Senior Internal Auditor for Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation, in East
Peoria, Illinois. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
●

Ainsworth Game Technology, Ltd. – Supplier License Renewal

Ms. Tracy Eginton appeared before the Board on behalf of Ainsworth Game Technology, Ltd.
●

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that the Board renew Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (AGT) for a
supplier’s license, effective October, 2010 for a period of four years, expiring
in October, 2014.
Further Member Winkler moved that Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (AGT)
be authorized and approved to manufacture and sell electronic gaming
devices to licensed riverboat casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the
requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Winkler moved to designate
the following positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Executive Chairman;
Leonard H. Ainsworth;
Chief Executive Officer, and
Daniel E. Gladstone.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s –
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 38 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 109
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.

3

 Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to
issue a Notice of Denial to the following individual who received notice that
staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide
additional information to rebut the recommendation.
1. Robyn Faye Owens.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
At 10:15 A.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 