STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 10, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
and staff members. Sylvia Rios and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 6, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the January 6, 2009 meeting. Member Anderson
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from January 1 through January 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-RC-09-011
Nurse Alliance of SEIU Healthcare/County of Cook/National Nurses Organizing Committee,
California Nurses Association

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a Decision and Order on
January 5, 2009, directing an election, with an appeal filed, and further noted that Petitioner, Nurse Alliance
of SEIU Healthcare, had requested oral argument and had filed a motion to strike the January 21 response of
Incumbent, National Nurses Organizing Committee, California Nurses Association, as untimely. Acting
General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the motions and appeal, and recommended that the
Board deny the request for oral argument, deny the motion to strike, and uphold the Executive Director's
order. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to reject the request for oral argument. Chairman
Gallagher seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson
then moved to deny the motion to strike. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson moved to uphold the Executive Director's order.
Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-09-003
Olivia Biloche/County of Cook
Case No. L-CB-09-004
Olivia Biloche/American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on December
5, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson
moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that the fiscal outlook was somewhat uncertain given the overall economy, and
that although the legislature was in session, there were no bills affecting the agency as of yet. Thereafter, the
Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by Chairman Gallagher and Member Anderson of the Local Panel of the
Illinois Labor Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of March, 2009.

2

 