Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
March 7, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on March
7, 2018 in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Members Hector Alejandre, Dee
Robinson and Michael Hansen. Chairman Don Tracy attended via telephone from the Illinois
Gaming Board’s Springfield office due to employment reasons. Four of the five members of the
Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General
Counsel Agostino Lorenzini, Deputy General Counsel James Pellum, Deputy General Counsel
Sheera Hobfoll, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, License Coordinator Robert
Burke, Office Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project
Manager Mark Stevens, and Deputy Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Gaming
Operations Supervisor Jeff Gaida. Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim
Lopinski, Finance Manager Tammy Compton, Chief Financial Officer Kevin High, and
Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed attended via telephone from the Illinois Gaming Board’s
Springfield office. One member of the public was also present.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 9:15 AM. Member Alejandre immediately moved
that the Board retire to closed session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), (15)
and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss
the following subject matters:
1. Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
2. Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
3. Pending and Probable or Imminent Litigation Matters
4. Investigatory Matters
5. Closed Session Minutes
Member Hansen seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 9:53 AM, Member Hansen moved to adjourn the closed session and return to open session.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 9:56 AM, Member Hansen moved to recess open session to 2:30 PM that afternoon,
Wednesday, March 7, 2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.

 At 2:32 that afternoon, Wednesday March 7, 2018, the Board reconvened the Regular Meeting –
Riverboat –on the 5th floor of the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago. Present were the
following Members: Hector Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Michael Hansen. Chairman Tracy
attended via telephone from the Illinois Gaming Board Springfield office due to employment
reasons. Four of the five members of the Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of February 9, 2018. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Kathy Gilroy – Ms. Gilroy expressed her view that the Board did not properly follow the
requirements of the Open Meetings Act. The Board explained why its actions complied with the
Act.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration:
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Chitra Croker – Level 1

Member Hansen moved that the Board approve Chitra Croker as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Staff Internal Auditor II for Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Kristine Marie Bonchik – Level 1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Kristine Marie Bonchik as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as Staff Internal Auditor for Des Plaines Development
Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy
Casino Alton, and HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – Todd M.
George – Senior Vice President of Regional Operations for Penn National Gaming –
Key Person

Member Robinson moved that the Board find Todd M. George suitable as a Key Person for HC
Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton, and
HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora in his position as senior Vice President of

2

 Regional Operations for Penn National Gaming, Inc. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel,
and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino – Ernest Glidden – Vice President of Finance Operations – Key Person

Member Hansen moved that the Board find Ernest Glidden suitable as a Key Person for both Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, and Southern
Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino in his position as
Caesars Entertainment Corporation’s Senior Vice President of Finance Operations. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

SUZOHAPP Gaming Solutions, LLC – License Renewal

Member Hansen moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of SUZOHAPP Gaming
Solutions, LLC for a period of four years, expiring in March 2022, and find Matthew R. Brown
suitable as Key Person of the licensee. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board find suitable and approve 33 Level 2 occupational
licenses and 58 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:



Lauren Alexandra McNamee
Michelle Elaine Oxford

Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Alejandre moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Donna Rae
Pohlman who was terminated for her misconduct and violating casino policy; this action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is
properly filed within that time frame. Member Robison seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Genesis
Gaming Solutions, Inc., fining the licensee $5,000 for not filing in a timely manner and
providing inaccurate materials relating to its annual update, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed

3

 within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by voice vote.
At 2:50 PM, Member Hansen motioned to adjourn. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. All
members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Board

4

 