

STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL

Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 8, 2009

I. OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 North LaSalle Street. Suite S-400. Chicago, IL
II. PRESENT

acalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan and Sylvia Rios acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 10. 2009

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the November 10, 2009 meeting. Member
Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.

IV. ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan asked to defer until the next meeting, consideration of the State Panel
administrative actions report for the period of time from November 1 through November 30, 2009.
After consideration, the Board granted his request.

V. BOARD ACTIONS

1. Case No. 
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of 
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/Illinois State Employees Association,
Laborers Int'l Union, Local 2002 Service Employees Int'l Union, Local 73

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented
by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Harvey's Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ, except as to six of the
petitioned?for employees Whom he listed. He recommended that those six be added to the list of 74
employees as to whom the Employer established the existence of a question of law or fact necessitating
a hearing, bringing the total number of such employees to 80. He further recommended that since the
status of less than ten percent of the employees in the proposed bargaining unit remained in dispute, that
the Board direct that the impounded ballots be opened and counted in accordance with the instructions
provided by the ALJ. During the discussion which followed, Chairman Zimmerman noted that with
regard to certain of the employees as to whom the Employer established the existence of a question of
law or fact necessitating a hearing, but only as to one or two indicia, the ALJ limited the scope of
hearing to those indicia. Chairman Zimmerman stated. that under the circumstances of this case, the
imposition of such a limitation was inadvisable, and instead, proposed as to those employees, that the
Board direct a full hearing on the merits as to all applicable supervisory indicia. Member Hade moved
to accept both Chairman Zimmerman's proposal and the acting general counsel's recommendation.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 





2. Case No. S-UC-08-023
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 196/Village of Richmond

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, notng that no party ?led exceptions to ALJ Wells? RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

3. Case No. S-UC-08-144
International Union of Painters Allied Trades District Council No. 58/City of Roodhouse

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, notng that no party ?led exceptions to AU Rios' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

4. Case No. S-CA-09-220
Debra Baxton/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. 
Debra Baxton/Service Employees International Union, Local 880

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
September 23, 2009, with an appeal ?led. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented
by the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to uphold the executive director's order. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VI. OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board examined and discussed the fiscal report distributed by staff. Thereafter, the Board
concluded that there was no need for executive session.

VII. ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of February, 2010.

 

