MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 14 AND 15, 1993
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS AND TELE-CONFERENCE

A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on July 14 and 15,
1993. The meeting was called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and notice was
duly and timely given to each Board Member and the general public in conformity
with Illinois Open Meetings Act, Chapter 102, Paragraph 42.02, Illinois Revised
Statutes. The July 14, 1993 segment of the meeting was held via videoconferencing centers in Chicago and Springfield and the July 15, 1993 segment in
Chicago and telephone conference call.
Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. called the July 14, 1993 segment to order
at 12:57 P.M. Mr. Kunkle and Member J. Thomas Johnson were present in Chicago,
Member Gayl M. Pyatt was present via telephone from Rock Island, Illinois,
Member William J. Chamblin was present via telephone in Robinson, Illinois and
Member Robert F. Vickrey was present via telephone in Peru, Illinois.
Also in attendance were Administrator Morton E. Friedman; Deputy
Administrators Joseph McQuaid and J. Thomas Hutchison; Chief Legal Counsel Donna
B. More; members of the media and the general public.
Mr. Friedman requested the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
content of an investigation.
Mr. Chamblin moved that pursuant to Chapter 102, Paragraph 42 (g), (h),
and (k) the Board retire to Closed Session. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 12:58 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board resumed its Open Session at 2:50 P.M.
members of the Board were present.

All

Mr. Johnson moved that the Board recess its deliberations until 3:30 P.M.
on July 15, 1993. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board recessed
at 2:59 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened its recessed meeting on July 15,
1993. The following Board Members were present in Chicago: Chairman William J.
Kunkle, Jr. and J. Thomas Johnson. Member Gayl M. Pyatt was present via
telephone from Galena, Illinois, Member Robert F. Vickrey was present via
telephone from Peru, Illinois. Member Designate J. William Roberts was absent.
Also in attendance were Administrator Morton E. Friedman; Deputy
Administrators J. Thomas Hutchison, Joseph McQuaid and Marcy L. Wolf; Chief
Legal Counsel Donna B. More; members of the media and the general public.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Kunkle at 3:39 P.M.

 Ms. Pyatt moved that pursuant to Chapter 102, Paragraph 42 (g), (h) and
(k) that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss an investigation. Mr.
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 3:40 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board resumed its Open Session at 4:09 P.M.; Members
Kunkle, Johnson, Pyatt and Vickrey were in participation.
The first order of business concerned the issuance of a Complaint for
Disciplinary Action against Casino Cruises, Inc., Bernard Goldstein, and Irene
Goldstein. The Chairman summarized the complaint and read the recommended
sanctions and penalties.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, DC-93-1,
against Casino Cruises, Inc., Bernard Goldstein and Irene Goldstein be issued.
Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays by
oral roll call, to wit:
MR.
MS.
MR.
MR.

JOHNSON:
PYATT: Aye
VICKREY:
CHAIRMAN:

Aye
Aye
Aye

The motion was approved 4-0. The Chairman instructed the Administrator to
issue the Complaint for Disciplinary Actions, DC-93-1.
The next item of business concerned the published agenda for the Regular
Meeting of July 20, 1993.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Board postpone agenda items #4 and #11 to an
unspecified August Special Meeting date. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
Under discussion, Mr. Johnson stated that he believed the items should be
postponed in deference to Member Designate Roberts. He noted that Member
Roberts had indicated his inability to attend the scheduled July 20, 1993
hearing. Mr. Johnson also noted that he, as all other members of the Board, was
being inundated with information submissions by applicants and opponents. Mr.
Johnson stated that the Board needed to be fully informed of all information and
opinions concerning applications and that all members of the Board should be
present before issuing the tenth finding of suitability for an owner's license.
Chairman Kunkle stated that he disagreed with the motion. He said that
the Board had conducted several meetings where significant decisions had been
made in absence of all five members of the Board. He noted that the Riverboat
Gambling Act charged the Board with certain responsibilities and that the
precedent established by Member Johnson's motion was not advisable.
Member Pyatt stated that she was supportive of the motion. She noted that
she felt that additional time was necessary to review the significant amount of
submissions by applicants and that she also wished a staff briefing on the
process under which the Board had operated during previous application
presentations.
Mr. Vickrey stated he supported the motion as a courtesy to Member
Designate Roberts.

 There being no further discussion, the Chairman called for the yeas and
nays by oral roll call, to wit:
MR.
MS.
MR.
MR.

JOHNSON:
PYATT: Aye
VICKREY:
CHAIRMAN:

Aye
Aye
No

The motion to postpone agenda items #4 and #11 was approved 3-1.
Next, the Chairman announced that the Regular Meeting of July 20, 1993 was
cancelled at the prerogative of the Chair.
After discussion, Member Johnson moved that the Board hold a Special
Meeting on July 20, 1993 in Chicago, Illinois. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays by oral roll call, to wit:
MR.
MS.
MR.
MR.

JOHNSON:
PYATT: Aye
VICKREY:
CHAIRMAN:

Aye
Aye
No

The motion calling for a Special Meeting for July 20, 1993 in Chicago,
Illinois was approved 3-1.
Next, Mr. Paul Biebel, attorney for Casino Cruises, Inc., and Bernard and
Irene Goldstein sought recognition.
Mr. Biebel stated that as attorney for respondents in Disciplinary
Complaint DC-93-1, he was accepting process of delivery of the complaint. Mr.
Biebel then tendered cashiers checks to the Board from the respondents, as
follows:
Casino Cruises, Inc.:
Bernard Goldstein:
Irene Goldstein:

$250,000.00
5,000.00
5,000.00

Mr. Biebel stated that the fines were being tendered although Casino
Cruises, Inc., Bernard Goldstein and Irene Goldstein were not admitting to the
contents of the complaint. Mr. Biebel said the fines were being paid to avoid
prolonged and protracted litigation expenses.
The fines were accepted by the Chairman and ordered deposited into the
Educational Assistance Fund as required by Section 23 of the Riverboat Gambling
Act.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Johnson
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Gaming Board
adjourned at 4:25 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

  

James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

