STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on September 11, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 14, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the August 14, 2007 meeting. Member Anderson
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from August 1 through August 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for review,
and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-05-072
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/Service Employees International
Union, Local 73/County of Cook

Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Clifford's recommendation. After a short discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the
ALJ's recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-06-069
National Nurses Organizing Committee/County of Cook
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its
own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. L-RC-05-012
Service Employees International Union, Local 20/County of Cook
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that ALJ Rios issued an RDO granting a petition filed by Local
20 to represent a bargaining unit consisting of approximately one hundred twelve persons in the title of
Attending Physician, employed by the County in Provident Hospital. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation and direct an election in the petitioned-for unit. The Chairman and Board Members then
engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the
conclusion thereof, Member Sadlowski moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation.

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion. Chairman Gallagher and Member Sadlowski passed the motion
by a voice vote. Member Anderson opposed.
4.
Case No. L-RC-05-019
Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association, Unit 156/City of Chicago
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that ALJ Kazanjian issued an RDO dismissing the petition filed
by the Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association (PBPA). Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board not take up on its own
motion that portion of the case dealing with the confidential and managerial issues, as neither party had filed
exceptions thereto, and instead, allow it to stand as non-precedential, but final and binding on the parties to
this proceeding. The acting general counsel further recommended as to the disputed issue, that the Board
decline to accept the ALJ's recommendation that the PBPA was bound by the 1995 City/FOP stipulation
excluding the lieutenants petitioned-for herein, from the PBPA's unit, and instead, certify PBPA as the
exclusive representative of the twenty-seven petitioned-for lieutenants the ALJ determined public employees
pursuant to Section 3(n) of the Act. After a short discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the acting
general counsel's recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. L-CA-07-024
Tracie Garmon/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on June 14,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no issue of law or fact raised therein to
warrant an evidentiary hearing. Member Sadlowski moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
6.
Case Nos. L-CB-07-014 and L-CB-07-015
Ernestine L. Ali/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on July 20,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal. Member Sadlowski moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. L-CB-07-023
Costello Stokes/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on July 25,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no issue of law or fact raised therein to
warrant an evidentiary hearing. Member Sadlowski moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding either fiscal or legislative matters, but
pointed out that thus far, our budget was in good shape and that the veto session would be during the first
two weeks of October. The Board then discussed various aspects of the matters presented. Subsequently,
2

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS (Continued)

the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this
time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of October, 2007.

3

 