MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 22, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 22, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Violet Clark and William Dugan. Member Gary Peterlin was present telephonically.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the October 22, 2003 Regular Meeting at 9:30 A.M. in the
3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (October 22, 2003) agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:18 P.M. The following Board Members were
present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members Violet Clark and William Dugan.
Member Gary Peterlin was present telephonically. The speakerphone was audible to the
audience.
Minutes
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 9, 2003 and the open session minutes of its Regular Meetings of
August 12, 2003 and September 9, 2003. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has begun taping its Closed session meetings.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that effective January 1, 2004 all Boards and Commissions

 would be required to tape their meetings. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Illinois
Gaming Board is committed to the intention of the Open Meetings Act. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board’s Legal staff would keep all of the Closed session tapes
in a secure location.
Chairman Higginbottom announced the end of a 75-day contract for retired employees, Allan
McDonald and Mark Anderson. Chairman Higginbottom thanked Mr. McDonald and Mr.
Anderson for their many years of service and wished them both the best as they move on
toward their future endeavors.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that the Board would be taking action today to revise the
Board’s Code of Conduct. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the action is being taken to
further ensure the integrity of the regulatory process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
revised Code of Conduct holds the licensees to a higher standard and requires that the
licensees play a greater role in the Code of Conduct process.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he looked forward to the licensees’ presentation updating
the Board on their operational status. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board is very
concerned about the loss of revenue, which would affect the treasury of the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the some of the licensees have experienced a decline in
their revenue and that the licensees would be working hard in cooperating with the Board in
trying to regain lost revenue.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Jeannette Tamayo stated that in an effort to make sure that the Board
covers all issues and that everyone’s time is most efficient, Staff would be proposing a
meeting schedule for the Board to meet every two weeks. Interim Administrator Tamayo
stated that the first week would be a telephonic Closed session only meeting and the next
week would be both Closed and Open session.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that in terms of the items that were discussed today in
Closed session, most of the items will be presented in Open Session. Interim Administrator
stated that a number of items that were not discussed in Closed session, but would be
discussed in Open session. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that in terms of operations,
Staff continues to address its number one concern of inadequate supervision at the riverboats
in terms of staffing levels and trying to deal internally and externally with the budget and the
ability to manage the budget.
Public Commentary
Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on alcohol & Addiction Problems
was present to discuss 24-hour gambling and the negative impacts that it would have on the
community and compulsive gamblers. Ms. Bedell provided the Board with newspaper
clippings that illustrated the effects that gambling has on people who gamble for long hours.

2

 Ms. Bedell urged the Board to leave in place the last “safeguard” against compulsive
gambling and to deny the request for 24-hour gambling.
Kathy Gilroy, a member of the Northern Illinois Anti-Gambling Task Force, was present to
discuss the practices of licensees that are not in the best interest of Illinois and its citizens.
Ms. Gilroy stated that one of the reasons that Illinois introduced gambling and allowed
dockside gambling was to capture gambling revenues that were flowing to border states. Ms.
Gilroy stated that Harrah’s Casino Joliet, which was granted a license by the State of Illinois
to help solve that problem and keep the gambling revenues in Illinois, is actually
encouraging those gambling revenues to go to their Indiana property. Mr. Gilroy provided
the Board with several newspaper advertisements for Harrah’s that exclude the Illinois
property and only mention the Indiana property.
Ms. Gilroy expressed her concerns regarding how a casino is allowed to run a promotion
when the ad says “pending regulatory approval.” Ms. Gilroy asked if the licensee should
wait to run a promotion until given approval. Ms. Gilroy questioned if casinos should be
allowed to run promotions that she claimed attracted children. Ms. Gilroy stated that Grand
Victoria Casino offers a free buffet to children, which she feels is a promotion to entice
parents to bring their children to the casino.
Rev. Tom Grey, Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling was
present to discuss the Board’s role as regulators and the recent request by licensees to change
their hours of operation. Mr. Grey stated that he expects the Board to look at the “bottom
line” and the licensees reasoning to change their hours of operation. Mr. Grey urged the
Board to look carefully at Casino Queen’s request to increase its hours of operation to 24hours. Mr. Grey asked that the Board weigh Casino Queen’s request with the profitability of
the product. Mr. Grey stated that the public has faith that the Board will continue to do a
thorough job in weighing each of the requests that come in from the licensees.
Board Policy Items
LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS – Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff was asked
by the Governor’s office to submit legislative proposals for their consideration for the Spring
session. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff submitted proposals indicating that
there would be discussions during the Board meeting to entertain if any of the Board
members wanted to add to the proposals. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the
proposals are the same ones that were presented in the previous years with the exception of
one new proposal. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the new proposal is a request to
permit the Board to make discretionary determinations of fitness when confronted with
persons convicted more than 20 years ago of crimes involving dishonesty or moral turpitude.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the Board and the public on the other legislative
proposals that are being submitted again this year. Interim Administrator Tamayo asked the
Board if they had any additional proposals for submission to the Governor’s Office.

3

 Member Peterlin stated that he previously talked about the opportunity for child support
enforcement to be expanded into the gambling areas for people who are delinquent in paying
child support. Member Peterlin stated that the Department of Revenue intercepts tax refunds
from people who are delinquent in paying child support. Member Peterlin stated that he
would like to propose that the winnings of those who owe child support could be intercepted.
Member Peterlin stated that the technology and the information have to be available.
Member Peterlin stated that some might say that this might deter people from gambling at a
time when the industry is facing other challenges. Member Peterlin stated that people who
owe child support are the type of patrons who shouldn’t be gambling anyway. Member
Peterlin stated that if that type of program could be implemented, it would be very beneficial
to children who are owed child support.
CODE OF CONDUCT – Mike Fries, Acting Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, presented to the
Board and the public revisions to the current Code of Conduct and proposed rule-making to
add to the Code of Conduct. Mr. Fries stated that the revisions to the Code of Conduct and
the rules are the direct product of a lot of input from Staff, Office of the Inspector General,
and from the individual Members themselves. Mr. Fries stated that Staff believes that the
new code provisions are in large part consistent with the former Code of Conduct and that
the new provisions meet and or exceed the Governor’s recent order concerning ethics. Mr.
Fries stated that Staff is requesting that the Board adopt the new Code of Conduct and have it
supercede all prior codes. Mr. Fries stated that Staff has proposed 10 new rules that
correspond directly to the new code provisions and to the licensees, applicants, and affiliates.
Mr. Fries stated that Staff is requesting that the Board authorize Staff to submit the new rules
for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State.
Upon diligent review and consideration, Member Clark moved that the Board adopt the
Code of Conduct dated October 22, 2003 and to have it supersede all prior Codes of
Conduct.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Code of Conduct shall be effective and binding
upon all Board Members and employees of the Illinois Gaming Board as of November
3, 2003. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Clark moved that the Board authorize staff to submit the following new rules for
First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the
Administrator: 3000.1200, 3000.1205, 3000.1210, 3000.1215, 3000.1220, 3000.1225,
3000.1230, 3000.1235, 3000.1240, 3000.1245.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize staff to submit revisions to Board
Rule 3000.100 Definitions to add “Conflict of Interest” for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

4

 TICKET VOUCHERING RULES – CLARIFICATION OF RULES 3000.756(a) AND
3000.770(c) - Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that when the Board passed the Ticket
Vouchering rules, Staff had initially listed the Self-Exclusion rules - 3000.756(a) and
3000.770(c) in their own category. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that a question
came up as to whether they were part of Ticket Vouchering or Self-Exclusion. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that for purpose of clarification, Staff is requesting the Board to
adopt a specific motion clarifying the two.
First and Second Notice having been properly filed in the Illinois Register, Member Clark
moved that the Board adopt the revisions to Board Rules 3000.756(a) and 3000.770(c)
and (e), filed with the Secretary of State, as part of the Board’s ticket vouchering
technology amendments. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
2004 BOARD MEETING DATES - Member Clark moved that the board adopt the
following dates for its regulatory meeting agenda for the calendar year 2004.
January 15, 2004
February 5, 2004
March 11, 2004
April 8, 2004
May 13, 2004
June 10, 2004
July 8, 2004
August 12, 2004
September 9, 2004
October 7, 2004
November 4, 2004
December 2, 2004
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board adopt the following dates for closed session
telephonic meetings. No Board action will be taken at the telephonic meetings unless
prior notice of Open Session is provided pursuant to the Open Meetings Act.
January 8, 2004
January 22, 2004
February 19, 2004
March 25, 2004
April 22, 2004
May 27, 2004
June 24, 2004
July 22, 2004
August 26, 2004
September 23, 2004
October 21, 2004
5

 November 18, 2004
December 16, 2004
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Owner Licensee Items
ALTON BELLE CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGE STATUS – Rich Laudon, General
Manager, was present on behalf of Alton Belle Casino to provide the Board with the status of
Alton’s operational changes. Mr. Loudon briefed the Board on the continuing increase of
competition from Missouri, personnel issues, training programs, vendors and suppliers,
donations, and marketing.
EMPRESS CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Jeff Pfeiffer, Vice
President and General Manager, was present to provide the Board with an update on Empress
Casino’s operational changes. Mr. Pfeiffer stated that a confidential update was submitted to
Staff and the Board regarding Empress’ operational changes. Mr. Pfeiffer briefed the Board
with the status of Empress’ personnel status and marketing efforts. Mr. Pfeiffer stated that
Empress’ efforts would remain directed towards maintaining a long-term financial viability
of Empress Casino within the marketplace.
HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Michael St.
Pierre, General Manager, was present on behalf of Harrah’s Casino Joliet to provide the
Board with an update on Harrah’s operational changes. Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s
provided Staff and the Board with confidential documents summarizing the changes made
and an update on all operational changes since the last Board meeting (September 9, 2003).
Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s has no other material information to submit at this time.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Rodney Phillipe,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Hollywood Casino to provide the Board with an update
on Hollywood’s operational changes. Mr. Phillipe stated that since Hollywood’s last update
to the Board, there have been no material changes at the property. Mr. Phillipe stated that
Hollywood met with Staff to discuss a recent request to increase Hollywood’s weekend
hours to 5:00 A.M.. Mr. Phillipe stated that during the meeting, Hollywood addressed many
questions and concerns that Staff had.
PAR-A-DICE CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Chris Gibase, Vice
President and General Manager, was present to provide the Board with an update on Par-ADice’s operational changes. Mr. Gibase stated that Par-A-Dice submitted a confidential
memorandum highlighting any operational changes. Mr. Gibase stated that Par-A-Dice has
no significant changes since the last update at the September 9, 2003 Board meeting for
public disclosure.

6

 ALTON BELLE CASINO – LICENSE RENEWAL AND WAIVER OF TWO-MEETING
RULE REQUEST – Mr. James Butler, Corporate Counselor, was present on behalf of Alton
Belle Casino to seek renewal of its license. Mr. Butler requested that the Board waive the
two-meeting rule and allow Alton to request final consideration at today’s (October 22,
2003) meeting for renewal of Alton Belle Casino’s license. Mr. Butler advised the Board
that Alton Belle has worked diligently with Staff over the past several months. Mr. Bulter
stated Alton Belle Casino believes that it has complied with all information request deadlines
imposed by Staff. Mr. Butler asked that the Board would charitably forgive Alton’s
inadvertent oversight. Mr. Butler stated that Alton has established internal procedures to
ensure that they would not have to come before the Board again seeking a two-meeting rule
waiver.
Member Clark moved that the Board waive the requirement of Board Rule 3000.105(e)
and permit Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino to present for Board
approval its request for license renewal. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Rich Laudon, Vice President and General Manager, provided the Board with a brief
presentation highlighting personnel, employee training, career growth, diversity training,
gaming taxes to the City of Alton, suppliers, and community contributions and support.
Alton Mayor, Donald E. Sandage, was present to brief the Board on how Alton Belle Casino
has helped to rejuvenate the community.
James Grey, President of the NAACP Alton Branch was present to speak on behalf of the
African American community of Alton, Illinois, and Madison County. Mr. Grey stated that
Alton Belle Casino brought employment opportunity to the community. Mr. Grey stated that
Alton Belle Casino has joined in NAACP’s efforts with the Stay in School Program and has
supported all civic programs in the community of Alton. Mr. Grey stated that Alton and
been a great asset to the community and the renewal of their license is needed.
Member Peterlin stated that, as it relates to purchasing from Illinois vendors, after reviewing
the overall numbers in the report that Alton provided to the Board and Staff, he would like to
see the number of Illinois vendors increase. Member Peterlin requested that at a later date,
Alton Belle Casino share with Staff where there are deficiencies in the ability to purchase
more from Illinois vendors.
Mr. Laudon stated that Alton would provide Staff and the Board with that information. Mr.
Laudon stated that it is Alton’s intent to continuously increase the amount of purchases from
Illinois vendors.
Member Clark commended Alton Belle Casino for its work with the non for profit
organizations and giving back to the community.

7

 Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board renew the Owner’s License of Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle
Casino for a term of four years expiring October 2007. The Board also orders the
following:
1.

Until further notice, Alton Belle Casino must submit
documentation to the Administrator, on a quarterly basis,
which describes: (a) the training provided to all personnel,
especially slot department and security personnel, hired during
that quarter, (b) the discipline administered to all personnel,
especially slot department and security personnel; and (c) the
overall supervision of the slot department personnel by
management.

2.

The Compliance Manager will prepare quarterly reports and
will submit the reports to the Administrator until corrected or
token EGD’s are no longer used by the Alton Belle.

Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board certify the position of Chairman of the Board as a Key Person of the licensee.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board certify and approve the following entity, positions and persons as Key
Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Argosy Gaming Company;
President;
Director;
Regional Vice President of Operations North;
Vice President of Internal Audit;
Richard J. Glasier;
Brenda K. Bauer; and
Craig D. Robinson.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
CASINO QUEEN – REQUEST TO INCREASE HOURS OF OPERATION TO 24 HOURS
– Jeff Watts, General Counsel, was present on behalf of Casino Queen to seek approval to
increase its hours of operation to 24 hours.
Mike Gaughn, member of Board of Directors for Casino Queen, was present to express his
views as to why Casino Queen’s hours of operation should be increased to 24 hours per day.

8

 Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has expressed to Casino Queen that the
ability to staff the boats with two ten-hour shifts has been difficult. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated the Board does not have the staffing ability to accommodate three eight-hour
shifts, which is what would have to be implemented in order to have 24-hour gaming at any
facility. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that another issue is whether or not this would
be good policy. Interim Administrator stated that a volume of letters, expressing opposition
to the increase of hours, was provided in the Board meeting packet. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that Staff also received a volume of phone calls in opposition to 24-hour
gaming.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has deliberated over Casino Queen’s request to
increase its hours to 24-hours per day and has taken seriously all of the comments and letters
received regarding this issue.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board deny Casino Queen, Inc.’s request to increase hours of operation to 24 hours.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
PAR-A-DICE CASINO – CHRISTOPHER R. GIBASE, VICE PRESIDENT AND
GENERAL MANAGER – LEVEL ONE – Donna More, Attorney, and Christopher Gibase
were present on behalf of Mr. Gibase to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Christopher R. Gibase as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – VINCENT STOVALL, SURVEILLANCE MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Donna More was present on behalf of Vincent Stovall to request approval as
a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board deny Vincent Stovall as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Elgin
Riverboat Resorts.
Pursuant to Board Rule 3000.405, in the event that Vincent Stovall fails to make an
appropriate and timely request for a hearing within 5 days of delivery of the written
Notice of Denial, this action of the Board shall become the final action of the Board
denying the application for a Level 1 Occupational License. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

9

 HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC. – CAM M. COSTELLO, INTERNAL AUDIT
MANAGER – KEY PERSON – Thomas A. Thanas, Attorney, was present on behalf Cam
M. Costello to request approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Cam M. Costello as a Key Person of Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Suppler Licensee Items
BALLY GAMING, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL AND WAIVER OF TWO-MEETING
RULE REQUEST – Corey Aronovitz was present on behalf of Bally Gaming, Inc. to
request a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule and to request license renwal.
Member Clark moved that the Board waive the requirement of Board Rule 3000.105(e)
and permit Bally Gaming, Inc. to present for Board approval its request for license
renewal. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve the Supplier’s license of Bally Gaming, Inc. for a term of 4 years expiring
October 2007.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board certify and approve the following entities and person as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Alliance Gaming Corporation;
Alliance Holding Company;
Bally Gaming International, Inc.; and
Robert L. Miodunski.

Further, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize Bally Gaming, Inc. to sell,
manufacture or lease the following products in the State of Illinois:
1.
2.
3.
4.
4.
5.

All S6000 Slot Machines (slants and uprights);
All V7200 Video Poker Machines;
All V8700 Electronic Gaming Devices;
All EVO gaming machines;
All EVO hybrid machines; and
Slot data information systems.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
10

 ACRES GAMING, INC. – NEW SUPPLIER – Tracey Tricoci, Attorney, was present on
behalf of Acres Gaming, Inc. to request a suppliers license.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve the application of Acres Gaming, Inc. for a Supplier’s license for a period of
one year expiring October 2004.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize Acres Gaming, Inc. to provide
computer monitoring systems to casinos pursuant to the pending requirements set out
in the Adopted Rules of the Illinois Gaming Board.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions and persons as Key Persons of
the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chief Executive Officer;
President/Chief Operating Officer;
Floyd W. Glisson; and
Richard J. Schneider.

Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 71 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 205 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board direct the Interim Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to the following two applicants for Level 3 licenses, each of whom
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut the recommendation:
1.
2.

Calvin Meeks; and
Rogelio Castellanos.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

11

 Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of William Malone
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against William Malone, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to William Malone’s failure to disclose a July 9, 2002
arrest.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke William Malone’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Lorey Potter
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Lorey Potter, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to her theft of
money from her employer, Casino Rock Island.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Lorey Potter‘s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Benito Deluna
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Benito Deluna, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to disclose his June 29, 2001 conviction for Possession of a
Controlled Substance in violation of Section 9(d) of the Act and his failure to comply
with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his theft of tokens from an EGD located at
Casino Rock Island.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Mr. Deluna’s Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

12

 • In Re The Disciplinary Action of Beth Giovannoni
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Beth Giovannoni, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to her theft of
money from her employer, Hollywood Casino Aurora.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Ms. Giovannoni’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Katsuki Manabe and Sigma Game, Inc., DC-03-17
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board accept the
proposed settlement agreements pertaining to Katuski Manabe and Sigma Game, Inc.
and delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such agreements.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize legal counsel to present the
settlement agreements to Administrative Law Judge Jeffrey Stewart Shapiro for
disposition of this matter, in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreements.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Joshua McCarthy, No. DC-02-01 – Final Order
Based on a thorough review of the record and report of proceedings and evidence before
Administrative Law Judge Mary Kennedy in the Matter of Joshua McCarthy, DC-02-01,
Member Clark moved that the Board adopt and issue a Final Order denying the
revocation of Joshua McCarthy’s level 3 occupational license as the Board's Final
Administrative Decision in this matter.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board direct the Administrator to provide a copy
of the Board’s Final Order to the parties and the ALJ, and include therein a notice to
Mr. McCarthy of his right to appeal the Board’s Final Order to the circuit court within
35 days from the date said Final Order is served. Member Dugan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

13

 • In Re The Disciplinary Action of Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino,
DC-03-31
Based on the staff's recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board accept the
proposed settlement agreement between the Board and Alton Belle Casino and delegate
to the Administrator the authority to execute such agreement. Member Dugan seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

At 4:20 P.M., pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open Meetings
Act, Member Clark moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the following
subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 5:27 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board adjourn. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

14

 