MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
June 29, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Special Meeting on June 29, 2005 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the Michael A. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe and Members Gary
Peterlin, Eugene Winkler and William Dugan. Member Charles Gardner was present by
phone.

Chairman Jaffe convened the June 29, 2005 Special Meeting at 10:30 A.M. in the 3rd floor
Board Conference Room. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Winkler moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on
today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
At 1:15 P.M.Member Winkler moved that the Board reconvene into Open session.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Approval of Minutes
Member Dugan moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes from March
10, 2004 through and including August 26, 2004 and the open session minutes from
June 3, 2004 through and including March 15, 2005. The motion was not seconded. The
motion failed.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe announced that today would be Member Dugan’s last day to serve on the
Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that Member Dugan has served on the Board with a great deal
of dignity and has been an inspiration to the entire Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that

 Member Dugan is a hardworking and giving person. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board
regrets to see Member Dugan leave.
On behalf of the Board and Staff, Chairman Jaffe presented Member Dugan with a token of
appreciation for all of his hard work.
On behalf of Staff, Interim Administrator Tamayo thanked Member Dugan for his service,
and his willingness to speak his mind whether or not he and Staff agreed or disagreed on any
particular issue. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Member Dugan’s guidance and
commitment to helping carry out the work of the Board is much appreciated by Staff.
Member Peterlin stated that he appreciated working with Member Dugan. Member Peterlin
stated that Member Dugan treated him the same way whether he was agreeing or disagreeing
with Member Peterlin. Member Peterlin thanked Member Dugan for all of his hard work and
wished him well in his future endeavors.
Member Dugan read his letter of resignation.
Board Policy Items
2005 Board Meeting Dates (7/1/05 – 12/31/05) - Member Peterlin moved that the Board
adopt the following dates for regulatory meetings from July through December 2005.
July 26, 2005
August 25, 2005
September 15, 2005
October 13, 2005
November 10, 2005
December 8, 2005

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Owner Licensee Items
Emerald Casino – License Renewal – See the attached resolution.
Grand Victoria Casino – License Renewal – Donna More, Attorney, and Randy Roberts,
General Manager, were present on behalf of Grand Victoria Casino.
Ms. More stated that since Grand Victoria’s last presentation before the Board, Grand
Victoria has submitted to Staff and the Board responses to various questions posed by the
Board.

2

 Member Winkler expressed the Board’s concerns regarding the membership of the Board of
the Grand Victoria Foundation.
Ms. More stated that Grand Victoria has had meetings with Staff and has agreed that the
lines of communication need to be improved. Ms. More stated that Grand Victoria would be
scheduling routine meetings with Staff on the Foundation’s behalf so that Staff will be
updated on what the Foundation is doing.
Member Peterlin stated that the Board believes that the Foundation’s board should be more
inclusive of community representation. Member Peterlin stated that the Foundation should
choose someone from the community that would be reflective of the people that the
Foundation serves.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve the Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino for a term of 4
years commencing retroactively from October 2004.
Further, the Board designates and approves the following persons and entities as Key
Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Daniel Azark;
Martha A. Sabol;
RGB, LP;
RGB Investors LP;
PG Investors LP;
Nicholas J. Pritzker;
Thomas J. Pritzker;
Marshall E. Eisenberg; and
HCCA Corp.

Further, the Board designates the following entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Peter M. Ligouri;
John Redmond;
Gary N. Jacobs;
Hyatt Gaming Management, Inc.;
Tracinda Corporation;
Kirk Kerkorian; and
MGM Mirage,

subject to further review of any management changes resulting from the merger of
Elgin Riverboat Resort and MGM Mirage. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

3

 Public Commentary
David Goroff was present on behalf of the Village of Rosemont. Although he had withdrawn
earlier as a speaker, he requested permission at the meeting to address the Board. Mr. Goroff
inquired if the granting of Emerald’s application for renewal and relocation is effective today
for a period of four years from today.
Member Winkler stated that it is effective from September 24, 1999.
Mr. Goroff inquired if it is the Board’s position that it is entering an order that has expired
before any relief is available.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he would not designate it as such. Chairman Jaffe stated that it
has been the procedure that renewals are effective from the date of the last license issued by
the Board.
Mark Ostrowski, Chief Legal Counsel, stated that this is a matter that is the subject of
litigation.
At 1:45 P.M., Member Winkler moved that Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11),
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned Closed session at 2:30 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

4

 RESOLUTION
Member Winkler offered the following resolution:
WHEREAS, Emerald Casino, Inc., (Emerald) formerly known as HP Inc., was
initially granted an owner’s license to conduct riverboat gaming in Illinois on July 9, 1992.
The Illinois Gaming Board (Gaming Board) renewed the owner’s license held by Emerald
in July 1995 and again in July 1996.
WHEREAS, on June 24, 1997, the Gaming Board voted to deny the renewal of the
owner’s license held by Emerald and issued a Notice Of Denial on June 27, 1997. On July
2, 1997 Emerald requested an administrative hearing regarding the denial of its renewal
application and an Administrative Law Judge was appointed.
WHEREAS, on July 29, 1997, Emerald ceased all gaming operations.
WHEREAS, on May 5, 1999, the Administrative Law Judge concurred with the
Gaming Board and recommended that the Gaming Board take final action to deny the
renewal of the owner’s license held by Emerald.
WHEREAS, before the Gaming Board took final action on the denial of Emerald’s
1997 renewal application, the Illinois General Assembly amended the Illinois Riverboat
Gambling Act (the Act) by adding Section 11.2. The Act, as amended, became effective
June 25, 1999.
WHEREAS, on September 7, 1999, the Gaming Board allowed Emerald to file a
new Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License.
WHEREAS, Emerald filed with the Illinois Gaming Board an Application For
Renewal Of Owner’s License as of September 24, 1999.
WHEREAS, on January 30, 2001, the Gaming Board voted to deny Emerald’s
Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License.
WHEREAS, on January 30, 2001, the Gaming Board also voted to revoke the
owner’s license held by Emerald.
WHEREAS, on March 6, 2001, the Gaming Board issued a Notice Of Denial Of
Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License (No. 01-01) and also issued a fivecount Complaint For Disciplinary Action (No. DC-01-05) seeking revocation of the owner’s
license held by Emerald (the revocation proceeding).

5

 WHEREAS, on March 13, 2001, Emerald filed a verified Request For Hearing on
the Notice Of Denial of its Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License. On March 26,
2001, Emerald filed a Verified Answer to the Complaint For Disciplinary Action. On June
4, 2001, Emerald elected to proceed on the Complaint For Disciplinary Action before
proceeding on the Notice Of Denial Of Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of Owner’s
License.
WHEREAS, on May 21, 2001, Emerald filed a Complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County in which it sought declaratory relief and a writ of mandamus ordering the
Gaming Board to approve Emerald’s September 24, 1999 application for license renewal.
On July 1, 2002 the Circuit Court granted the Gaming Board’s motion for summary
judgment and issued a written decision finding that the word “shall” in Section 11.2 of the
Act cannot be interpreted as mandatory based, in part, on the express purposes of the Act.
On December 30, 2003, the Appellate Court reversed the Circuit Court’s decision and
found that the use of the word “shall” in Section 11.2 of the Act required the Gaming
Board to grant Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License.
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2005, pursuant to the mandate of the Appellate Court, the
Circuit Court directed the Gaming Board to grant Emerald’s September 24, 1999
Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License.
WHEREAS, the constitutionality of Section 11.2 of the Act is an issue that is
currently pending before the Illinois Supreme Court in a case entitled Crusius v. The
Illinois Gaming Board, et al., No. 98351.
WHEREAS, the revocation proceeding is currently pending before the Honorable
Abner J. Mikva.
WHEREAS, according to the December 30, 2003 decision of the Illinois Appellate
Court in Emerald Casino, Inc. v. Illinois Gaming Board, Section 11.2 of the Act overrides
the Gaming Board’s authority under the Act and the Rules not to renew Emerald’s
Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License, but does not affect the Board’s ability to
revoke the owner’s license held by Emerald for any reason permitted by the Act or the
Rules.
WHEREAS, the Circuit Court’s June 9, 2005 order directs the Gaming Board to
grant Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License, but does not direct the
Board to discontinue or take any other action concerning the pending revocation
proceeding.
WHEREAS, Section 7(g) of the Act authorizes the Gaming Board to renew an
owner’s license “for a period of 4 years, unless the Board sets a shorter period.”
WHEREAS, the granting of Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of Owner’s
License pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Act would eviscerate and directly contravene

6

 certain sections of the Act and the Rules pertaining to license renewal, including Section 2
of the Act which expressly directs the Gaming Board to “strictly regulate the facilities,
persons, associations and practices related to gambling operations” and Section 7(g) of the
Act which requires that “all licenses are renewable annually upon payment of the fee and a
determination by the Board that the licensee continues to meet all of the requirements of
this Act and the Board’s rules.”
NOW, THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with the June 9, 2005 order entered by the
Circuit Court, the Gaming Board hereby grants Emerald’s September 24, 1999
Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License, as of September 24, 1999, for a period of
four (4) years, subject to Section 11.2 of the Act being determined constitutional in Crusius.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that neither the adoption of this Resolution nor the
granting of Emerald’s September 24, 1999 Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License
constitutes a determination of 1) the adequacy of the September 24, 1999 Application For
Renewal Of Owner’s License, 2) the suitability of Emerald, its Key Persons and the
location of the docksite, and 3) the Complaint For Disciplinary Action.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the renewal of the owner’s license pursuant to
Emerald’s September 24, 1999 Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License during the
revocation proceeding, as mandated by the Illinois Appellate Court, does not render the
revocation proceeding moot and the Administrative Law Judge and counsel are directed to
continue with the revocation proceeding.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. Member Dugan opposed the motion. The motion passed
4 to 1.

7

 