Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
August 2, 2018

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Regular Meeting Video on August 1,
2018, in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board of?ce on the 3rd ?oor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
1201 et seq.

The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a
quorum was satis?ed.

The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Legal Counsel Jared Smith, Acting Legal Counsel Richard Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-
Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski,
Financial Audit Unit Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Of?ce
Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Alicia Pass?eld, Deputy Administrator?Enforcement
Frank Spizzirri, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Investigations Squad Supervisor

Gabriel Aragones and Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed.

Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 1:25 PM. The Acting Administrator veri?ed that
no one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.

At 1:26 pm, Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to speci?c
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

At 2:42 PM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn the video closed session meeting and return to
open session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

At 2:42 PM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open meeting to August 2, 2018 at 9:15
AM. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

The Board reconvened in Open Session on Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 10:23 AM on the 5?h
?oor of the Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the
following: Chairman Donald Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins and Hector
Alejandre.

APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes ?'om its Regular
Meeting of June 13, 2018. Member Robinson secOnded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.

ADMIN REPORT

The Acting Administrator reported that there are currently 6,588 licensed location establishments
operating 29,664 VGTs.

PUBLIC COMMENTARY

Scott Wirtjes Location Applicant 121 Club Inc., 170703537

MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS

License Renewals

American Vending Sales, Inc. Renewal of Distributor License

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the distributor license of American Vending
Sales, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. Renewal of Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the manufacturer and distributor licenses of
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- CountR Renewal of Supplier License

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the supplier license of CountR for a
period of one year, retroactive to July 2018, expiring in July 2019. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- H. Betti Industries, Inc. - Renewal of Distributor License

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the distributor license of H. Betti Industries, Inc.
for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The

motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

IGT Renewal of Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the manufacturer and distributor licenses of IGT
for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- CM American Corporation Renewal of Supplier License

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the supplier license of .1 CM American Corporation
for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- Konami Gaming, Inc. Renewal of Manufacturer and Distributor License

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the manufacturer and distributor licenses of
Konami Gaming, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2019. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

- M3 Technology Solutions, LLC Renewal of Supplier License

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the supplier license of M3 Technology
Solutions, LLC for a period of one year, retroactive to July 2018, expiring in July 2019. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS

Initial License

- A1 _Kreshav Krupa LLC

Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to A1_Kreshav
Krupa LLC for a term of one year, expiring in August, 2019, as the applicant has demonstrated
its quali?cations and suitability for licensure. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

License Renewals

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a
term of one year, expiring in August 2019:

Donico Gaming, LLC
- Game on Entertainment, LLC
. Veterans VGT, LLC

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a
term of one year retroactive to July 2018, and expiring in July 2019.

 G.F.M. Gaming, LLC
Illinois Gaming and Coin-Op LLC
- Pocket Aces Gaming Inc.

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
TECHNICIANS TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials

Member Dolins moved the Board approve eighty ?ve (85) applications for Terminal Handler
licenses and three (3) applications for Technician licenses that were submitted to the Board since
our last meeting, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:

DeMarius Devon Hill
- Paris Kiere Clark
- Terje Devon Fletcher

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal
Handlers who were licensed or renewed in August 2017, as well as retroactively renew those that
were licensed or renewed in July 2017, and who have properly updated their applications, timely
paid their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and
the Board's Rules. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.

VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT APPLICATIONS

Initial Licenses - Approvals Denials

Member Robinson moved that the Board approve 81 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for
a period of one year, expiring in August 2019, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices

of Denial to:

- PAC Industries, Inc. Carl?s Bar Grill
- Ruby?s Caf? LLC

- Luna Properties 11
- Ally-bi Saloon, Inc. Alley-Bi Saloon
Able Investments Inc. Firestone Lounge

- Cheesie?s Gumee LLC, d/bx'a Cheesie?s Pub Grub

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

License Renewals and Non-Renewals

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or
renewed in August 2017, as well as retroactively renew those that were licensed or renewed in
July 2017, and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and are
otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules; and that the
Board authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Non-Renewal to the following:

- Terri Shepard KJ's Bar Grill
- Butler's Supper Club Inc.
- THE LOADED BUFFALO BAR AND GRILL INC. THE ORIGINAL

SUNDANCE SALOON

- THE COVE OF APPLE CANYON, INC. THE COVE OF APPLE CANYON
LAKE

- Inc. d/b/a Top Fuel Saloon

Patricia Marie Martin d/b/a Memories Lake Villa

- BRICKS IVY, LLC d/b/a Parkside Pub

- Smikit Corporation d/b/a Kelly's Irish Saloon

0 SMILIN GOAT, INC.

- Russel Darin Spears d/b/a Freight House

- BARBEQUE, INC. THOMAS BBQ
- Mary's on Maple, LLC d/b/a Mary's on Maple

- SA TA Incorporated d/b/a Rose Garden Restaurant

- BAR GRILLE, INC. BAR GRILLE
- The Bullpen Inc. dfb/a The Bullpen Bar Grill

- TUMBLES, INC. d/b/a Wunder Tap

- TNT Gas-Mart, Inc. d/b/a TNT Gas-Mart

- Lansing Investment Corporation Kilroy's

- Vail #1 Inc. The Oasis

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
REQUESTS FOR HEARING

Requests for Hearing

Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant the request for hearing submitted by Bears
Showtown USA, INC. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by voice vote.

Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the request for hearing submitted by How-Dog, Inc.

Cactus Country. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by voice vote.

Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the hearing requests submitted by Sports
Connection Inc. and Mexican Honorary Commission for failing to present a prima facie case for
hearing. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Member Alejandre moved that the Board rescind the denial of renewal previously entered in
June 2018, and grant renewal to Investment Inc. Diamond Jim?s, retroactive to June
2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by James Thomas
Stewart. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Requests to Reapplv

Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant the request by Wileniel Medina Pagan 
Noche Azul Sports Bar to reapply for an establishment license. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Terminal Handlers

Member Dolins moved to issue a disciplinary complaint revoking the license of Brandon Moore
for failure to update disclose his arrest, said actions to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly ?led within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Member Alejandre moved to issue a disciplinary complaint revoking the license of Christopher
Lawrence Carrel] for conduct that discredits the Illinois gaming industry and poses a threat to the
good order and general welfare of the people of the State of Illinois, said actions to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly ?led within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.

Member Robinson moved to issue a disciplinary complaint ?ning Bruce Matlock a sum of $250
for conduct which re?ects adversely on the security and integrity of the Illinois video gaming
industry. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Illegal Gambling Activities
Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints ?ning the establishment licenses of:

- American Legion Memorial Association of Thornton. Illinois $4,000
- Fuehne?s Tavern, INC $1,000
- and The Good Spot, Inc $750

for conducting or allowing illegal gambling, said actions to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly ?led within that timeframe. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Failure to monitor VGTs

Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint ?ning the establishment
Hospitality LLC COMFORT INN SUITES $2,000 for failure to monitor VGTs, to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly ?led
within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.

Failure to Comply with Duties and Obligations

Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint ?ning Lucky Lincoln
Gaming LLC $500 for failure to comply with Rule 250, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly ?led within that timeframe.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

LITIGATION

Member Dolins moved that the Board accept the recommendations of the and issue a ?nal
order denying an establishment license to JV Spring?eld, Inc. Lazy Lou Tavern. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Settlement

Member Dolins moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator authority to enter into a
settlement agreement with the licensee Kents Sunset Inn Inc. The Sunset Inn and to take
the necessary actions to resolve the disciplinary complaint. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

ADJOURN

Member Dolins moved to adjourn. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Richard P. Harlovic
Assistant General Counsel

