ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Bruce Rauner • Governor Don Tracy • Chairman Agostino Lorenzini • Acting Administrator

160 North LaSalle ♠ Suite 300 ♣ Chicago, Illinois 60601 ♥ tel 312/814-4700 ♦ fax 312/814-4602

Notice of Illinois Gaming Board Meeting
Regular Board Meeting - Riverboat
The Illinois Gaming Board will convene a regular meeting of the Board in Open Session on
Wednesday, August 1, 2018 at 1:00 P.M. in the Board’s Conference Room on the 3rd floor of the
Michael A. Bilandic Building, and immediately retire to Closed Executive Session. The Board will
reconvene its regular meeting in Open Session on Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 9:00 A.M. on the 5th
floor of the Michael Bilandic Building. The subject matters to be discussed are included on the attached
proposed Riverboat agenda.
Please note that the regular Riverboat meeting agenda is typically posted 48 hours prior to the
scheduled meeting date.

 ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Bruce Rauner ● Governor

Don Tracy ● Chairman

Agostino Lorenzini ● Acting Administrator

160 North LaSalle ♠ Suite 300 ♣ Chicago, Illinois 60601 ♥ tel 312/814-4700 ♦ fax 312/814-4602

Illinois Gaming Board
Regular Meeting - Riverboat Agenda
Wednesday, August 1, 2018
I.

OPEN SESSION – Call to Order
a. Roll Call
b. Motion to Enter into Executive Session

II.

CLOSED EXECUTIVE SESSION
a. Review of Closed Session Minutes:
i. Consideration of the minutes of the closed executive session of June 12, 2018
b. Investigations
c. Litigation
d. Personnel
e. Motion to adjourn Closed Session and Reconvene Open Session

III.

OPEN SESSION
a. Motion to adjourn to Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 9:00 A.M.

1

 August 1 & 2, 2018
Regular Board Meeting – Riverboat

Thursday, August 2, 2018
IV.

OPEN SESSION (reconvened)
a. Call to Order
b. Roll Call
c. Review of Open Session Minutes:
i. Consideration of the minutes of the open session of June 13, 2018
d. Chairman’s Report/Comments
e. Board Member Comments
f. Administrator’s Report
g. Public Commentary
h. Owner Licensee Items:
i. Initial Consideration:
1. Elgin Riverboat Resort – Riverboat Casino d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino
Eldorado Resorts, Inc. – Request for Initial Consideration and Waiver of Two
Meeting Rule for Financing Transactions in connection with Eldorado Resorts,
Inc. acquisition of Elgin Riverboat Resort – Riverboat Casino d/b/a Grand
Victoria Casino including subsidiary guarantee of debt.
2. Caesars Entertainment Corporation - Request for Initial Consideration for a
Financing Transaction in connection with the proposed debt combination for
Caesars Entertainment Operating Company and Caesars Resort Collection with
issuance of up to $1 billion in Senior Unsecured Notes and up to $5.7 billion in
Term Loans including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Des Plaines Development
Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, LLC d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino.
ii. Final Consideration:
1. HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – License Renewal
2. Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Request for Final
Consideration for Transfer of Ownership Interest in Elgin Riverboat Resort –
Riverboat Casino d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino from MGM Elgin Sub, Inc. and
Illinois RBG, LLC to Elgin Holdings I LLC and Elgin Holdings II LLC, buyer
purchasing subsidiaries of Eldorado Resorts, Inc., as set forth in the Interest
Purchase Agreement dated April 15, 2018. Closing of the transaction to occur at
a mutually agreed date by the buyer and sellers and approved by IGB.
3. Eldorado Resorts, Inc. – Request for Final Consideration of a subsidiary
guarantee of Eldorado Resorts, Inc.’s current debt consisting of a $1.75 billion
Credit Facility, $875 million 6% Senior Unsecured Notes, $375 million 7%
Senior Unsecured Notes and issuance of up to $1 billion Senior Unsecured Notes
in connection with Eldorado Resorts, Inc. acquisition of Tropicana Entertainment.
4. Key Persons related to transfer of ownership in Elgin Riverboat Resort –
Riverboat Casino d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino
a. Key Person Business Entities:
2

 August 1 & 2, 2018
Regular Board Meeting – Riverboat

i.
j.

k.
l.
m.

i. Elgin Holdings I LLC
ii. Elgin Holdings II LLC
iii. Eldorado Resorts, Inc.
iv. Recreational Enterprises, Inc.
b. Key Person Trust:
i. The Donald L. Carano Family Trust
c. Key Persons:
i. Anthony Carano – Executive Vice President of Operations and
General Counsel of Eldorado Resorts, Inc.
ii. Cindy Carano – Trustee/Beneficiary
iii. Gary Carano – Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Eldorado Resorts, Inc. and Trustee/Beneficiary
iv. Gene Carano – Trustee/Beneficiary
v. Glenn Carano – Trustee/Beneficiary
vi. Gregg Carano – Trustee/Beneficiary
vii. Rhonda Carano – Trustee/Beneficiary
viii. John Frankovich – Trustee
ix. Edmund Quatmann – Secretary and Chief Legal Counsel of
Eldorado Resorts, Inc.
x. Thomas Reeg – President and Chief Financial Officer of Eldorado
Resorts, Inc.
d. Key Person Institutional Investors:
i. FMR, LLC
5. David S. Krasn – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel
Casino – Vice President of Internal audit for Boyd Gaming Corporation – Key
Person
6. Susan Carletta – Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises d/b/a Harrah’s
Metropolis Casino & Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel – Senior Vice President, Chief Regulatory and
Compliance Officer, and Deputy General Counsel – Key Person
7. Johnathon D. Eilian - Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah’s Joliet Hotel & Casino –Key Person
Supplier Licensee Items:
Occupational Licensee Items:
i. Approvals, & Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
ii. Requests for Hearing and Requests to Reapply
iii. Disciplinary Actions
Personnel
Litigation
Motion to Adjourn
3

 