MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
February 6 and 7, 2007
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, February 6 and Wednesday, February 7, 2007 a Special Meeting of the Illinois
Gaming Board (“Board”) was held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the
3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Members Charles Gardner, Joseph Moore, James
Sullivan and Eugene Winkler. Chairman Aaron Jaffe participated via teleconference.
At 8:40 A.M. on Tuesday, February 6, 2007 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to
discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personal matters.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 9:35 a.m. The Board went into
Open Session at 9:42. At 9:45 a.m. the Board recessed until Wednesday, February 7, 2007 at
9:00 a.m.
At 9:15 a.m. on Wednesday February 7, 2007 the Board recommenced its closed session meeting
with 3 Board members present: Member Gardner, Winkler and Sullivan. Chairman Jaffe and
Member Moore participated via telephone. The Board convened its Open session at
approximately 10:00 a.m. pursuant to motion.
Roll call was taken with Board members Gardner, Winkler and Sullivan present; Chairman Jaffe
and Member Moore participated via telephone.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS
Member Gardner commented on the Gerard Kenny agreement which is now acceptable to the
Board. Thanks to staff, Martha Sabol, Jeff Watson and the Casino Queen for all their hard work.

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
a.

Item of Initial Consideration –
•

Gerard Kenny – Request to Waive Two – Meeting Rule

Member Winkler moved that the Board waive the two-meeting rule required by
Board Rule 3000.105(e) to permit Gerard Kenny to present to the Board his
request for approval to sell his ownership interest in the Casino Queen, Inc.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
b.

Item for Final Action •

Gerard Kenny – Request for Approval to Sell Ownership Interest (If TwoMeeting Rule Waived)

Member Winkler moved that the Board approve Gerard M. Kenny’s request to
transfer his ownership interest in Casino Queen, Inc., consisting of 2.857% of
stock, to Mary Ann Kenny Smith. Further, the Board moved to require
Mary Ann Kenny Smith to file a Personal Disclosure Form 1 by April 9, 2007.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADJOURNMENT
At 10:15 a.m. Member Winkler moved to adjourn. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.

Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

2

 