MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
June 29, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, June 29, 2011 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Wednesday, June 29, 2011 at approximately 10:00 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, and Member Moore. Member Gardner participated via telephone. At
10:25 A.M. on Wednesday, June 29, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat gambling Act, Chairman Jaffe moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to
discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.

Personnel matters; and
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:35 A.M. The Board
recessed and went into open session at 11:03 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe,
and Member Moore. Member Gardner participated via telephone.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Items for Initial Consideration –

•

Item for Initial Consideration
• Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC/Clairvest Group – Approval of
Organizational Structure Change

Attorney William Bettman appeared before the Board on behalf of Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC/Clairvest Group.

• Items for Final Consideration
• Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Approval for Final Practice
Gaming Session
Attorney John Janicik appeared before the Board on behalf of Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC.

 Member Moore commented on the lack of diversity at the senior level of management. He stated
that a copy of the Board’s social investment strategy is available upon request.
Pursuant to Section 3000.230(f) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, and based on a review of
staff’s investigation and recommendation determining that Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC has satisfactorily complied with the requirements of the Illinois
Riverboat Gambling Act, including sections 7 and 7.1, and the Board’s Adopted Rules,
including Section 3000.230(e)(1)(A), Member Moore moved to authorize the
Administrator to conduct a final practice Gaming session and to issue Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment, LLC a Temporary Operating Permit upon successful
completion of the session. Chairman Jaffe seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call.
ADJOURN –
At 11:03 A.M. Member Moore motioned to adjourn and Chairman Jaffe seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

2

 