STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on December 11, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Charles Anderson, Member of the
Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 9, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the October 9, 2007 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from October 1 through November 30, 2007. Executive Director Brosnan asked for and
received leave to present the report at the January 8, 2008 meeting.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case Nos. L-RC-06-015 and L-RC-07-001
1.
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/County of Cook

Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the County's exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's
determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Sadlowski moved
to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion.
Chairman Gallagher and Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a voice vote. Member Anderson opposed.
2.
Case No. L-CA-05-053
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Chicago
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative
Law Judge Wells' Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. L-UC-08-001
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative
Law Judge Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case Nos. L-RC-06-024 and L-RC-07-035
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Service
Employees International Union, Local 73/County of Cook
Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by Petitioners' exceptions and recommended that the Board decline to accept
the ALJ's recommendation. The Chairman and Board Members engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's
determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Sadlowski moved
to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion.
Chairman Gallagher and Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a voice vote. Member Anderson opposed.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher sought and was granted leave to discuss the fiscal and legislative reports at the Joint
Panel meeting scheduled for 11:30 a.m.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of January, 2008.

2

 