Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 18, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Victor M. Gonzalez
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 18, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:06 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: September meetings approved
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita provided the following updates:
Juan M. Calderón
Commissioner Morita welcomed and introduced Juan M. Calderón as a member of the Chicago
Board of Health. City Council approved the Mayor's appointment of Calderón on September 6,
2017. Calderón currently serves as Chief Operating Officer of the Puerto Rican Cultural Center,
where he employs best practices and new models of care for youth, LGBTQ and seniors living
with HIV/sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and mental illness. Calderón's recent
accomplishments include the establishment of a trans-national partnership with Cuba's National
Center of Sex Education and TransCuba. His efforts have been recognized by La Voz del Paseo
Boricua's "Top 10 Under 30", Windy City Times's "30 under 30", DIFFA Chicago, and IVI-IPO
Gay & Lesbian Caucus -Glynn Sudberry.
National Leadership
Commissioner Morita reported CDPH efforts remain strength as we continue to establish
Chicago as a national leader in public health. In late September, she traveled to DC
to participate in a panel hosted by the Coalition for Health Funding on building infrastructure for
public health needs in the 21st century. She met with United Way Worldwide, Trust for
America’s Health and Enterprise Community Partners to lay the groundwork for future
partnerships and funding for Chicago. In the spirit collaboration with other large cities across the
nation, Commissioner Morita penned an op-ed on the opioid crisis with her peers from New
York and Los Angeles and hopes to place the op-ed in the coming weeks and will be sure to
share with us.
Healthy Chicago Updates
•

•

Public Health Preparedness. Our CDPH team assisted Office of Emergency Management
and Communications (OEMC) in welcoming Puerto Rican evacuees to Chicago. We now
have access to their immunization data base, allowing us to ensure that children arriving
meet our vaccine requirements and can enroll in CPS. CDPH also assessed our staff and
identified Spanish speakers that can assist in both clinical and support roles. In related
news, our preparedness and biohazard team was on site at the Bank of America marathon
monitoring for environmental hazards, coordinating hospital responsiveness and ensuring
public health was maintained during event.
Chicago Health Atlas. Last week, CDPH launched the updated Chicago Health Atlas
(www.chicagohealthatlas.org). The Atlas will provide residents, partners, and city council
members an interactive, neighborhood-level health data, including data from our Healthy
Chicago survey. The tool will especially be useful for Healthy Chicago 2.0 partners
applying for new funding and launching research projects and to aldermen wishing to

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 18, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

•

search health data in their community. The City of Chicago also updated their website,
please visit www.cityofchicago.org to see updates.
LGTBQ Health. This week, we will launch #NoRoom4Stigma, a new social media
campaign that challenges prejudices facing LGBTQ youth, and the same prejudices that
lead to increased risk for homelessness, violence, HIV and suicide. The campaign will
feature radio PSAs and free concerts by LGTBQ advocate and artist, Taylor Bennett
(Chance the Rapper’s brother).

Mayor Emanuel Budget Address
The Mayor is delivering his budget address at 10AM today, I will provide more details at next
month’s meeting. We look forward to continue our efforts in investing resources, be it
limited, in improving health equity across Chicago.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed Juan M. Calderón and the students.
She provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in
matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health. In addition, Dr. Lopez
commented on the interesting week she had attending the conference of Institute of Medicine.
At the conference Megan Cunningham, Managing Deputy provided an overview of Health
Chicago 2.0. Last Friday, our President signed an executive order to decline CSR payments and
the uncertainty of healthcare in general. Dr. Lopez mentioned, there are things that we cannot
control so don’t get caught up – keep working and move forward.
Presentation: “Community Engagement,” Ivonne Sambolin, Director of Community
Engagement
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
Fly Dumping
The City Council has passed an ordinance sponsored by the Mayor, on behalf of CDPH and the
Department of Streets and Sanitation, to crack down on fly dumping. Fly dumping happens when
businesses or individuals illegally discard waste and debris on public or private property—often
construction debris and sometimes toxic chemicals. The waste may have hazardous materials
inside, posing a threat to health, and sometimes there can be massive amounts—even over a
hundred yards or tons. The new ordinance imposes much tougher fines on fly dumping, and it’s
being paired with a series of security cameras being placed in spots where fly dumping is
common. Dr. Morita and Streets & San Commissioner Charles Williams held a press conference
last month to announce the initiative.
Parental Leave
Aldermen Pat O’Connor (40) and Margaret Laurino (39) introduced an ordinance to expand paid
parental leave for City employees who aren’t in unions. The measure would increase maternity
leave to 12 weeks (it’s now either four or six weeks, depending on the type of birth), and
increase paternity leave to four weeks from two. Paid parental leave is associated with significant
declines in child mortality and increases in breastfeeding and maternal mental and physical
health.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 18, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Healthy Kids Town Halls
We have completed on our Healthy Kids Town Halls. It has five policy recommendations based
on community input in the areas of lead poisoning, vaccines, obesity, lead, and empowering
parents. Thanks to the Board for your valuable input in this process. We have provided copies to
you.
Trump’s Attack on ACA
Having failed to repeal and replace the ACA through Congress, President Trump has unilaterally
cut off a key component of the program. He ended cost-sharing reduction subsidies, or CSRs.
Insurers are obligated to reduce the copays and deductibles for low-income customers on the
ACA marketplace, and these CSRs defray the insurers’ costs. Ending CSRs could have a
profound impact on people who earn too much to be on Medicaid but are lower-income, earning
up to about $30,000 for one person. More than half of the Obamacare marketplace customers got
help through these CSRs, which cut customers’ costs by an average of about $1000 apiece last
year. The law will still require insurers to reduce cost sharing for these customers, but since the
government will no longer subsidize it, insurers will have to make up the cost by raising
premiums instead. That will hurt people on the ACA marketplace and potentially lead to
spiraling premiums as healthier people decide insurance isn’t worth it. Alternatively, insurers
could drop out of the market, reducing competition (or in some states leaving no insurers at all)
and leading to further premium increases. Trump has stated that his motivation is to make the
ACA blow up so Democrats go to him asking for a deal. Congress could fix the issue by
approving the payments.
New Business: None
Old Business: None
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:35 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, December 20, 2017 at 9:00 a.m.

 