STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on June 10, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Charles Anderson, Member of the
Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan, Ellen M. Strizak, and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this
meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 13, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the May 13, 2008 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board for review, and
the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CB-07-008
Debra Meyer/Licensed Practical Nurses Association of Illinois, Division 1

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Kazanjian's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-RC-07-017
Illinois Council of Police/City of Chicago/Service Employees International Union, Local 73 &
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 21
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
March 20, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to reject the Executive Director's dismissal and set the petition for hearing.
Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. Member Anderson and Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a
voice vote. Chairman Gallagher opposed.
3.
Case No. L-CB-08-012
Michael Lyman/Chicago Fire Fighters Union, Local 2
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on April 24,
2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member

 Sadlowski moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that the agency's budget passed as presented, but it was not finalized. Member
Sadlowski made a motion to leave open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski made a motion to go into executive session.
Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to leave executive session.
Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member
Sadlowski then made a motion to return to open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of August, 2008.

2

 