MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
AUGUST 21, 2007
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 21, 2007 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, August 21, 2007 the following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, James Sullivan, Joe Moore and Eugene Winkler.
At 9:55 a.m. on Tuesday, August 21, 2007 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section
6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:30 p.m. The Board went into
Open Session at 1:40 p.m.
Roll call was taken for the start of the open session with Chairman Jaffe, Members Moore,
Gardner and Winkler. Member Sullivan was not initially present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 16 and 17, 2007, the Special Meeting of July 23, 2007, and the open session
minutes of the Regular Board meeting of July 17, 2007 and the Special Meeting of July 23, 2007.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS – no motion

 BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS – no motion
Member Winkler commented on the ICGA SEP/Problem Gambling Seminar at Empress Casino
in Joliet. The day-long seminar sponsored by Bensinger DuPont and Associates was devoted to
teenage addicted gambling and the afternoon to middle age gambling. It was done very well, a
great job. All are concerned about responsible gaming and we have the strongest self-exclusion
programs in the country. The IGB instituted a carding system for everyone up to 30 years of age,
however older age groups make up a greater percentage of SEP patrons and we all need to do a
better job of keeping these patrons out of the casinos.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – no motion
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the next Board meeting, September 17 and 18, 2007 will be
held at the Casino Queen in East St. Louis. Closed session will be on the 17th and Open session
will be on the 18th.
Let the record show that Member Sullivan has entered the meeting at approximately 1:50 p.m.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY – Kathy Gilroy
Ms. Gilroy’s presentation:
Good afternoon, Chairman Jaffe, members of the Board and staff. This marks my 5th appearance
before this Board to speak on the inadequacy of your so-called “self-exclusion program. The last
time was a year and a half ago. At that time, both the Chicago Tribune and the Sun-Times had
editorials recommending carding everyone entering casinos.
I hope you read the story in last Friday’s Tribune about the addicted gambler who mush have
signed up to be banned twice, since he claimed to have first enrolled in 1998 when it would have
been only one casino’s program. He eventually got caught when he tried to cash in on $22,000
of winnings. According to the program rules, he had to forfeit his winnings. So, at some point,
he had also enrolled in the IGB’s program.
There are some obvious discrepancies between what the addicted gambler claims he did and the
way the program works. But, the fact remains that he continued to gamble and lose money for 9
years after signing up to be “banned” twice during that time.
It is also interesting that, even now, he is only 34 years old. That means he already knew he
needed help at the age of 25. he has been dealing with this gambling addiction for over ¼ of his
life.
At the June meeting, you heard about a lady of retirement age dealing with the same gambling
addiction. So, age has nothing to do with the problem.
Yet, your current policy is to check ID at the door of only those who appear under age 30. that
policy did not catch the 34-year-old. And, of course, it did not catch the 60-something either.

2

 And, since only around 10% of the thousands who have signed up for the program are actually
under age 30, and since it is also a subjective decision of who looks under 30, and like the
subject of the story, many age out of the under-30 category, your current policy has leaks like the
levees in New Orleans.
And tell me, why should the casinos catch anyone on the list? Letting those thousands of
addicted gamblers continue to gamble only enhances the casinos’ bottom line.
Chairman Jaffe, you made a comment at the June meeting that Illinois is a leader in the field with
its self-exclusion program. That’s not saying much for the rest of the country. That’s like
bragging about how many toys you’ve sold that are contaminated with lead paint. If people are
getting hurt, you have got nothing to brag about.
The only way to stop the hurt and get the lead out of this program is to check every ID at the
entrance against the list who’ve requested o be banned, not just those who look under 30. You
know that’s the truth. I challenge you to really lead the nation and put some teeth into your
program by requiring casinos to check every ID and deny those on the list entrance to the
gambling area. Granted, doing that will affect casino revenues. But, what is more important to
this Board, the best interests of the casinos or the best interests of the public?
If you will require carding everyone, you will be lauded for having the courage to do what’s
right. Recall your old, out-dated, ineffective “self exclusion” program and give the people
who’ve signed up what they want: to be physically banned from the casinos.
The Tribune editorial on January 8 2006, titled “Locking Out Problem Gamblers” declared that
“The state has an uneasy alliance with gambling-it balances its budget on the take from
gambler’s losses. It has a responsibility, then, to help draw a line between entertainment and
compulsive behavior.”
There are strict suitability requirements in the financial world of insurance, investments, and,
now, mortgages. Where is the suitability test for gambling? Certainly, gambling is not suitable
for a compulsive gambler who has requested to be banned.
But, what about someone who borrows money to gamble? What if they can’t pay it back? Is
gambling suitable for them? How entertaining is to lose your house because of your gambling?
I have included with my handout copies of judgments, liens, and foreclosures involving casinos
you regulate, some for as little at $500, some as large as $55,000. Has that line between
entertainment and compulsive behavior been crossed in these cases? Will you allow this
unsuitable behavior to continue? What about someone who commits a crime in order to gamble?
Shouldn’t they be banned also?
I noticed that you are not voting on Harrah’s license renewal today. You will notice that many
of those judgments are by Harrah’s. If they grant credit foolishly, shouldn’t they just eat their
losses like gamblers do? Do you still call it entertainment when a gambler loses their house?
Loans for gambling used to be considered non-collectible.

3

 I would also like to call the Board’s attention to promotions currently being conducted at
Harrah’s, Hollywood and Empress casinos, all of which fulfill the definition of raffle in the
Illinois Raffles Act. Yet, casinos are not licensed nor authorized by the Riverboat Gambling Act
to conduct raffles. I spoke to Mr. Fries and Mr. Ostrowski about this a month ago. They insisted
these promotions are approved. but, based on what? Raffles are not an approved game for
casinos.
According to the book “Gambling and the Law,” an approval cannot override a state statute.
Without a raffle license, in order for these promotions involving drawings to proceed lawfully,
there must be a method of entry that does not involve consideration. The disclosure “No
purchase necessary” and the alternate method of entry must appear in their ads. I have included
in your handout an ad from Blue Chip Casino in Indiana showing those requirements done
properly.
The IRS reporting rule is also different for raffles. Are the casinos reporting wins over $600, as
required?
Finally, federal law makes it a felony, $20,000 fine, and up to 5 years in prison for running a
gambling business in violation of a state law, that last more than 30 days or takes in more than
$2000 in a single day, and involves five or more persons. Lack of knowledge of the law does not
make one exempt from the law.
Shouldn’t a company as large as Harrah’s have someone, or hire someone who knows these laws
as well as I do? Or, don’t they care? Are Illinois casinos taking advantage of the fact that they
are getting away with illegal promotions?
To come full circle, these raffles entice the very people who should be banned, without the
casino having to send out marketing material to their home. Of course, in the end, the casino
may just take the home anyway. Isn’t that an entertaining thought?
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS

• Casino Rock Island – Doug Klingaman, Casino Manager, Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Moore moved that the Board approve Doug Klingaman, Level One
Occupational Licensee, in the position of Casino Manager at Jumer’s
Casino Rock Island located in Rock Island, Illinois. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Gardner went on to ask how construction is proceeding at the new location? Mr. Milne
went on to give a briefing on the status.

4

 • Casino Queen – Mary Ann Kenny Smith – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Moore moved that the Board approve Mary Ann Kenny Smith, as a Key
Person of the Casino Queen, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS

• Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. – Timothy J. Parrott, President & Chief
Executive Officer – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Winkler moved that the Board approve Timothy John Parrott as a Key
Person, in the position of President & Chief Executive Officer of
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Alliance Gaming – Richard Haddrill, President and Chief Executive Officer –
Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Winkler moved that the Board approve Richard Haddrill as a Key Person,
in the position of President/Chief Executive Officer of Bally Gaming, Inc.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

• Happ Controls, LLC – Charles E. Turnbull, President/CEO – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Winkler moved that the Board approve Charles E. Turnbull as a Key
Person, in the position of President/Chief Executive Officer of Happ
Controls, LLC. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Chief Counsel Fries commented on Ms. Gilroy’s inquiry pertaining to the “lottery taking place at
the casinos”. Mr. Fries asked Ms. Gilroy to put something in writing pertaining to her concerns.
That was at last month’s meeting, and Fries went on to state that they are still waiting for her
letter. In the meantime, Chief Counsel Fries is having Bill Bogot, one of the attorneys on staff,
look into her concerns adding that the issue is still being researched.

5

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 52 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 251
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Velgster Hemphill;
Jenepher H. Jirdon;
Tequilla S. Brewster;
Robin M. Williams;
Denise Renee Churchill;
LaWesla Deanne Matlock;
Delmar Baxter; and
Charles Edward McDowell

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT

• Raymond Mercado – Request for Hearing
Pursuant to section 405(a) of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Gardner
moved to deny Raymond Mercado’s request for hearing based on the
following:
1) The Board may deny a request for hearing if the statement of reasons
and facts in the request does not establish a prima facie case;
2) Pursuant to section 9(a)(2) of the Riverboat Gambling Act an
applicant is ineligible for an occupational license if he has been
convicted of a felony;
3) In his request for hearing Mr. Mercado admitted that he was
convicted of a felony in 1995; and
4) Mr. Mercado is statutorily ineligible for an occupational license and,
further, has not set forth reasons and facts in his request for hearing
that establish a prima facie case as to the 1995 conviction.

6

 Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

• Zetta Walker, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Zetta Walker, an
occupational licensee, because she admitted that she received and
intentionally kept a $50 gratuity from a patron rather than placing the tip
into a secured box as required by internal controls.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Zetta Walker’s
occupational license. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer
within that time period. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• India Wooley, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against India Wooley, an
occupational licensee, because she admitted serving drinks to patrons,
accepting payment for the drinks, failing to ring up a number of the
drinks and keeping the payments for herself.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke India Wooley’s
occupational license. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer
within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Cara E. Lewis, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Cara E. Lewis, an
occupational licensee, due to her serving drinks to patrons, accepting
payment for the drinks, failing to ring up a number of the drinks and
keeping the payments for herself.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Cara E. Lewis’
occupational license. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer
within that time period. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 • Matthew W. Valentine, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Matthew W.
Valentine, an occupational licensee, for his failure to disclose a July 19,
2007 arrest to the IGB.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Matthew W.
Valentine’s occupational license for 3 days without pay. Said action to
take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

• Lauren Liberty Batenic, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Lauren Liberty
Batenic, an occupational licensee, for her failure to disclose a February
10, 2007 arrest to the IGB.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Lauren Liberty
Batenic’s occupational license for 3 days without pay. Said action to take
affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

• Alfred Reimen, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Alfred Reimen, an
occupational licensee, for his failure to disclose a June 30, 2007 arrest to
the IGB.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Alfred Reimen’s
occupational license for 3 days without pay. Said action to take affect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Winkler responded to the statement that Ms. Gilroy made when addressing the Board
earlier. He went on to state that the Board as a whole struggles about all the decisions that they
make and no decision is easy. The ethical implications are always considered. The Board is very
concerned about the issues that she addressed. The Board is not in alliance with the ICGA.

8

 Gambling is here to stay in Illinois unless the Governor and legislature come up with a different
way to fund the state budget. The Board deals with all of this as ethically as they can. The Act is
always followed. Rev. Winkler stated that what the Chicago Tribune states does not bind the
Gaming Board. The Board is very concerned about the addictive gamblers, the employees of the
casinos, and the Board tries to be sensitive to all concerns.
Member Gardner commented about the revocation, denials and suspensions. Four of the eight
denials were because the people that submitted the application were statutorily ineligible to work
in the industry. Applications should not be provided to convicted felons. A convicted felon
cannot work in the industry. Member Gardner went on to say that the casinos need to do a better
job of screening those applications. Four of the denials and three of the suspensions have to do
with arrests. An employer can’t ask an employee about arrests. Applicants are suppose to
disclose arrests. Please make it clear to the applicants to disclose everything. Not disclosing
these arrests are grounds for precluding employment. Remind your prospective and current
employees of these rules. If an employee is arrested they must report it.
Chairman Jaffe commented on Ms. Gilroy’s statements in her presentation; this Board does
struggle with every decision that it makes. The Board is thoughtful and considerate, and the
Chairman stated that he is very honored to be on the Board. Our staff is about the best in the
country. Making the comment comparing our staff to selling toys with leaded paint is just
ridiculous.
ADJOURNMENT
At 2:20 p.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Gardner second the
motion.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 