Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 16, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Carl C. Bell, M.D.
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Horace E. Smith, M.D.

For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 16, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:00 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: No quorum, October 2016 minutes are pending approval until the next board of
health meeting.
Commissioner’s Update: Julie Morita, Commissioner provided the following updates:
• In the aftermath of the recent Federal elections, Commissioner Morita reported there have been
some feelings of uncertainty and change can be unsettling at times, and elections often lead to
change. But it’s important for us to remind everyone that CDPH’s goals have not changed. CDPH
will remain devoted to building a city of thriving communities where all residents are able to live
healthy lives and will continue their hard work with the same dedication, passion and
commitment we have always had.
• Mayor Emanuel has said, “Since the Presidential Election, there has been a sense of uncertainty
among immigrant communities in Chicago and the across the nation but assured all of our
families that Chicago is and will remain a Sanctuary City. Chicago has been a city of immigrants
since it was founded. We have always welcomed people of all faiths and backgrounds, and while
the administration will change, our values and our commitment to inclusion will not.” Residents
are encouraged to call 311 for information about legal resources, as well as other supportive
services.
• On Tuesday, Commissioner Morita attended two events: a celebration breakfast in honor of the
City’s Youth Summer Job Program, an initiative that provides youth with employment and
enrichment opportunities during the summer months. This summer the city employed 3100 young
adults, and a dinner on becoming trauma informed. Attendees at the dinner commented on
CDPH’s Healthy Chicago 2.0, as a helpful and guiding tool in their work in healthcare.
• Last week, Megan Cunningham, Managing Deputy Commissioner and Annie Posner, Director of
Health Equity and Strategic Partnerships met with foundations to discuss Healthy Chicago 2.0
and the development of strategies and initiatives.
• The Cook County sweetened beverage tax ordinance was recently passed and the revenue
generated will assist new health initiatives.
Mental Health Program
• The CDPH Mental Health clinical team earned a new three-year accreditation from the
Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF). The news followed a threeday, intensive audit of our program in September that included site visits of all clinics, reviews of
city policies and procedures and interviews with staff and clients. The 2016 reaccreditation marks
the program’s fifth. Each time, the program has been awarded the highest level accreditation.
This achievement is an indication of the program’s dedication and commitment to improving the
quality of the lives of clients served.
Chicagoland’s Third Annual Smoking Cessation Awareness Week
• This week, CDPH and nearly 30 advocacy organizations across the city and suburbs is
conducting the third annual ‘Nobody Quits Like Chicagoland’ Smoking Cessation Awareness
Week. Events and initiatives throughout the week will aim to drive public awareness of the
importance of smoking cessation.
• Throughout the week, partners in this effort are hosting a variety of programs across the city and
suburbs to raise awareness of the dangers of tobacco products and provide resources and support
to those who want to quit.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 16, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
•

Messages will be shared across Chicago using the City’s digital billboard network, in addition to
commitments from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois headquarters and the
Crain Communications building downtown to display campaign messaging with their building
lights.

Chicago Resident Services Fairs
Earlier this year, as part of the Mayor’s economic development strategy to expand housing, employment
and economic development opportunities throughout the city, we launched the first series of Chicago
Resident Service Fairs to bring tangible resources directly to communities.
Nearly 2,000 residents attended the first five resident service fairs. The Mayor received great feedback
from residents, community and legislative leaders who asked the City continue to bring
these needed resources back to their communities. As a result, CDPH will be fully participating in, and
supporting, the next round of five monthly service fairs, starting this Saturday and running through next
spring.
Preparedness and Environmental Permitting
CDPH’s Preparedness and Environmental Permitting and Inspection Programs worked to support
citywide operations for the Cubs Championship series (NLDS, NLCS, and the World Series).
Preparedness staff was deployed for each home game to provide healthcare coordination with our local
hospitals. Their work included development of multiple operational playbooks, conducting an EMS
Region 11 Hospital Situational briefing, monitoring hospital bed availability/hospital by-pass status,
supporting the Fire Department in coordinating the distribution of patients, enhanced placement
/monitoring of the BioWatch detection devices and supporting information gathering for pre-terrorist
activities. In addition, Environmental Permitting staff supported citywide effort to monitor the
environment for the release of potential hazards.
Enroll Chicago
• City of Chicago efforts to enroll residents in quality, affordable health coverage continues with
coordination from CDPH’s Enroll Chicago initiative. The 4th open enrollment period for the private
insurance Marketplace under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) began on November 1 and ends on
January 31. Enrollment in Illinois Medicaid, for low and moderate income residents, is all year
around. CDPH is closely coordinating with City Departments, Sister Agencies, and community
stakeholders on resident engagement, education and enrollment. These efforts align with the Health
Chicago 2.0 strategic priorities.
Board of Health Member Anniversaries (falling before the next Board meeting)
• Adele Joy Cobb, M.D.
December 2
• Carl Bell, M.D.
December 2
• Joseph Starshak
December 4
Commissioner Morita thanked them for their years of dedicated service to residents of the City of
Chicago.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 16, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an overview of the
board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues
affecting public health. Dr. Lopez provided her thoughts and reflections on the after election situation
and suggested for us to have a strong moral compass on the decisions we make moving forward.

Policy Update: Brian Richardson provided the following policy updates for Jesse Lava:
• The Budget Committee passed a measure to create a license for drug reps. Big Pharma lobbied
against it but it passed by acclamation. The license would charge a $750 annual fee
and require adherence to ethical standards, disclosure on doctor visits, and continuing education. It
would also free up $700K per year for us to invest in heroin addiction treatment, which we will focus
on the west side. Communities in this area are opioid treatment deserts where there are
disproportionate amounts of overdoses and the need vastly exceeds the availability of services.
• We held a Summit to Combat Addiction to Heroin & Other Opioids, joining with the collar counties
like Lake and DuPage, to find areas of attacking the opioid problem together. It was a positive
experience by all accounts; we are now determining top priorities for moving
forward, both in collaborating across jurisdictions and in establishing policies on our own in Chicago.
• The Health in All Policies Task Force is continuing to meet and we hope to be able to release a report
early next year with recommendations on how City departments and sister agencies can work together
to improve health, especially in addressing the social determinants of health.
• Anabel Abarca was introduced as the new senior policy analyst focusing on communicable disease.
She has joined the policy team, supervised by Jesse Lava, and will work on a variety of issues
including infections contracted in healthcare settings.
Old Business: None
New Business: Dr. Carl S. Bell resigned from the board due to conflict with his current work schedule.
Board members will work on identifying a new board member.
Public Comment: The question was asked, can youth be a board member? Dr. Lopez explained
someone with more experience is needed and advised for youth to gain experience through employment
and volunteering to build their profile. Commissioner Morita suggested youth can volunteer and be part
of the Health Chicago 2.0. If you are interested in volunteering please send an email to:
healthychicago@cityofchicago.org
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 9:45 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, December 21, 2016 at 9:00 a.m.

 