Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 17, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 17, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:08 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: No quorum.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita provided the following updates:
May 23: HC 2.0 and Gold
CDPH and Mayor Emanuel are hosting a major event on May 23 at Malcolm X College at 9:00
am to celebrate the one-year anniversary of Healthy Chicago 2.0. New City Colleges Chancellor
Juan Salgado will give the keynote, illustrating that advancing health equity involves various
government agencies and partners working together to take action. We will also be celebrating
that the de Beaumont Foundation’s City Health project has awarded Chicago a gold star in its
assessment of our health policies, from tobacco to bike lanes to healthy food. The event is full
but if you are interested in attending please let me know.
On the Table
On Monday, CDPH partnered with PHIMC and United Way in hosting 'On the Table 2017
Luncheon,' where we held conversations to see how to work together to promote healthy people,
healthy places, and healthy businesses.
EPA Site
The EPA's climate change research was removed from the federal government websites. Mayor
Emanuel had it saved and posted on the City of Chicago website on the “Climate Change Is
Real” page. The new site ensures the public has ready access to information the EPA has
developed over decades of research about the impact of climate change.
Psychiatrists
Chicago Tonight did a story on the nationwide psychiatrist shortage, which as you know is being
felt here in Chicago, from CDPH to medical centers and health providers. Health care
professionals and experts point to salaries and low reimbursement rates as driving factors.
Public Health Innovation Award
Last week, the National Network of Public Health Institutes (NNPHI) awarded CDPH the Public
Health Innovation Award for our use of informatics, applications, predictive analytics, and other
strategies to engage community members and make transformational changes with Healthy
Chicago 2.0. Raed Mansour will travel to New Orleans this Thursday to accept the award on my
behalf.
National Prevention Week
This week is National Prevention Week, which is an annual observance dedicated to increasing
public awareness and action around mental and substance use disorders. Each year, communities
and organizations across the country come together to raise awareness about the importance of
substance use prevention and positive mental health. The theme for this year is “Making Each
Day Count.”
LGBTQ Prom
CDPH collaborated with the CPS Office of Student Health and Wellness to provide onsite
education at the 6th annual Chicago LGBTQ & Allies Prom at Alcott College Prep this past
weekend. We joined over 150 students from 26 schools across CPS.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 17, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Climate Change: Atlantic
Commissioner Morita joined the Atlantic Air Summit on April 20 (just before Earth Day),
discussing our Healthy Chicago 2.0 efforts to reduce the impact of climate change, the good
work of our environmental inspections and permitting team and the challenges that lie ahead.
Environmental justice is health equity.
Food Deserts
The Mayor announced Jewel-Osco is building a new grocery store in Woodlawn. Neighborhood
development and the elimination of food deserts are two key steps to improving health equity.
Homelessness
Mayor Emanuel announced a new program aimed at housing 100 homeless families. The new
initiative to reduce homelessness tackles housing for 100 families located in at-risk communities,
funded by the City's surcharge on house sharing dedicated to reducing homelessness. Ensuring
housing is critical to health equity.
Seed Grants RFP Release
Building on last year’s success, CDPH is again partnering with the Public Health Institute of
Metropolitan Chicago (PHIMC) to award $175,000 in City funds for up to five community-based
organizations to advance Healthy Chicago 2.0. As part of our commitment to health equity, we
are targeting neighborhoods of high economic hardship and low child opportunity. The proposed
projects or initiatives must meet community needs identified through a resident engaged
planning process. This reflects our increasing focus on place-based interventions as we work
with our City and private partners to coordinate investments in the communities of greatest need.
National Infant Immunization Week
April 22-29, Chicago recognized National Infant Immunization Week with free vaccinations for
families with infants. We also raised awareness for whooping cough prevention.
Smart Lighting Project
Dr. Allison Arwady, Chief Medical Officer, and Commissioner Morita worked with CDOT to
support the Smart Lighting Project. We identified health experts to provide written testimony in
favor of the project and Dr. Arwady attended the City Council meeting to address questions
related to the potential and theoretical health effects of the LEDs. Through Health in All Policies,
we collaborate with CDOT to determine and highlight the health benefits of their work.
STD Awareness Month
April was STD Awareness Month, an annual observance to raise public awareness about the
impact of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) on the lives of Americans. As part of CDPH's
commitment to prevent STDs, on April 26, the STI/HIV Bureau launched the Chicago Health
Information Management System (CHIMS) after two years of planning and development (Phase
1 of implementation).
Lastly, Commissioner Morita was a speaker at the UIC commencement ceremony this past
Friday, and she told the story of her Japanese grandparents held in a Japanese internment camp
in Idaho. They later moved to Chicago and where employed by the Edgewater Hotel. The
Edgewater Hotel provided them with a job during very difficult times. Her message is that now
is the time to do good when the government is not supportive.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 17, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an
overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious
disease and health issues affecting public health. In addition, Dr. Lopez commented, we should
maintain a strong core during these times in our country and “don’t think of an elephant.” This
is a title of book, a suggested read to improve our ability to communicate with each other and
learn to choose our words carefully. Lastly, her cousin passed away, she is reminded how he
made a difference in everyone’s life and when she is depressed—she remembers Mike.
Presentation: “WIC and Nutrition in Chicago,” JoAnn Peso, Director of Nutrition, and Jaclyn
Castellanet, Regional Nutrition Coordinator
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following updates: Angelica Alfaro will start tomorrow
as the legislative affairs manager at CDPH. She will be replacing Charles Watkins, who as you
know went to work for the new City Clerk. She was born and raised in Humboldt Park, and she
has worked in government affairs for years. We will give her a proper welcome at her first board
meeting next month. An early executive order from President Trump asked for review of all
federal agencies’ regulations. The EPA asked for public comment on all of its regulations but has
not followed a very transparent or public process for such a large task. CDPH submitted our
comments on Monday, making clear that strong EPA regulations have been crucial to protecting
health in Chicago and across the nation for four decades. We must maintain and indeed build on
the progress we have made. The American Health Care Act passed the U.S. House. The CBO
expects to score it next week, but we already know it would be devastating to health, taking
health insurance away from millions of Americans. We will continue to advocate against efforts
to take health care away from anyone; we need to expand coverage rather than shrink it.
New Business: None
Old Business: Dr. Lopez mentioned, at last month’s BOH meeting, a motion was unanimously
approved to draft a letter from the board to the Commissioner of Public Health and the Chicago
City Council opposing the rollback of flavored tobacco restrictions. The letter was drafted and
shared with the board members present for review.
Public Comment: Kendall Stagg announced Trinity Health is a breastfeeding-friendly health
system. He credited the Chicago Department of Public Health’s board of health members for
providing guidelines a few years back that have now gone nationwide. He suggested jury duty
service have breastfeeding guidelines as well, and recommended for board of health members
take steps in this matter. Kendall praised Tammy Duckworth for advocating breastfeeding
friendly airport. In addition, he mentioned the tobacco flavored menthol ordinance is a national
movement and Chicago led the way. Lastly, he requested that a draft letter opposing the rollback
of flavored tobacco restrictions be shared with the Mayor and aldermen, that monthly update
reports of this matter be provided, and that BOH members be proactive and recommend a
solution.
Tameka Samson with Mercy Hospital reported their food vending status is 75% promoting
healthy choices. Also, Mercy Hospital advocates and promotes their hospital as tobacco free and
has signs posted in different areas of the hospital. Mercy is also a tobacco free friendly partner.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, June 21, 2017 at 9:00 a.m.

 