STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on June 7, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Anna Hamburg-Gal and Elaine Tarver also
acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 12, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman called for the approval of the minutes from the May 12, 2011 meeting. Member
Anderson moved to approve the minutes of the May 12, 2011 meeting. Chairman Zimmerman seconded. The
Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from May 1 to May 31, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-11-027
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Cook County Recorder of Deeds

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on January
24, 2011, with an appeal filed. Counsel Hamburg-Gal reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and
recommended that the Board reverse the Executive Director’s dismissal and issue a complaint. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to reject the Executive Director's dismissal and order a complaint issue. Chairman
Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-10-022
Karyn R. Thomas/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on October
15, 2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Tarver reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson
moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented to the Board the status of legislation that could affect the agency.
Member Anderson made a motion to leave open session. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson moved to go into executive session to
discuss personnel matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member
Anderson made a motion to leave executive session. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the

 Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson moved to return to open session.
Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of July, 2011.

2

 