MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the September 21, 2017 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature and subject to
review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call:
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Non-Committee Trustees Present:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair); Patrick McFadden; Diahann Goode;
Robert DeGraff; Andrew Jatico; Bill Kouruklis and Dennis
White.
Joseph Nevius.
Nickol Hackett, Executive Director & CIO; Jane Hawes,
Senior Manager of Health Benefits; Rachelle Howliet, Senior
Health Benefits Specialist; Tonya Jackson, Health Benefits
Specialist; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor.
Daniel Levin and Thomas Wyszomirski, Segal Consulting.

Public Comment: Chairman Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee.
There being no public comment, the meeting continued.
Review and Consideration of August 24, 2017 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes
Trustee McFadden moved to approve the August 24, 2017 minutes, Trustee DeGraff seconded the
motion. The motion was approved.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 Administrative Report
Jane Hawes presented follow up information about average cost per member of top oncology drugs used
in 2016. The committee asked for a broader analysis of the cost of oncology care for members and the
Fund, including the impact of using out-of-network providers.
A member has requested a second level medical appeal. Ms. Hawes summarized the appeal process; the
Fund’s fiduciary responsibility for second level appeals, and the requirement for medical appeals to be
reviewed by qualified professionals with expertise in the contested issue. Although UHC can assume
fiduciary responsibility for the Plan and process second level appeals for a fee of $.70 per annuitant per
month (about $85,000 a year), a vendor has been identified, Innovative Care Management, that performs
reviews for a $500 hourly fee. Ms. Hawes stated the volume of the Fund’s second level medical appeals
is low and ad hoc review charges are unlikely to exceed $10,000 a year.
A motion was made by Trustee White to recommend the Retirement Board enters into an agreement
with Innovative Care Management for the processing of second level appeals. The motion was
seconded by Trustee McFadden.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
It was recently discovered that SilverScript EGWP WRAP smoking cessation coverage for Medicare
members does not mirror the non-Medicare commercial plan. Coverage for smoking cessation in the
commercial plan is mandated by the Affordable Care Act. In July 2016, the Committee approved the
same smoking cessation coverage for members enrolled in the EGWP WRAP program as in the
commercial plan, however, the benefit was not implemented for the WRAP pharmacy plan.
A motion was made by Trustee McFadden to amend the WRAP pharmacy plan design to align smoking
cessation benefits with the commercial plan. The motion was seconded by Trustee Goode.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
Segal Final Review of 2018 Rates
Dan Levin stated he will be the Segal client relationship manager for the Fund, going forward. He
introduced Tom Wyszomirski who reviewed the rate recommendations approved by the Retirement
Board or 2018. Mr. Levin noted the urgent care co-pay benefit change approved by the Retirement
Board will not impact the final 2018 rates.
UHC is offering a revised fee proposal of a 1% increase each year over current fees. Mr. Levin outlined
the cost of this fee structure over the three year contract term and stated there would be no impact on the
final 2018 rates approved by the Retirement Board. He stated the revised fees amount to a reduction of
approximately $102,000 over UHC’s initial proposal.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 A motion was made by Trustee McFadden to accept UHC’s revised fee proposal. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Goode.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
Mr. Levin reviewed the logic being used to adjudicate retail and mail order claims in the EGWP
coverage gap period and noted this added an additional $1.1 million to the Fund’s pharmacy expense for
2017. Mr. Levin stated the logic typically used is the lessor of the drug cost or the copay, and noted this
was how pharmacy claims were adjudicated prior to the EGWP implementation and also the way claims
are currently paid in the commercial plan. Mr. Levin recommended the Fund consider returning to the
more typical logic. If approved, CVS can implement the change for 1/1/2018.
A motion was made by Trustee McFadden to recommend the Retirement Board eliminates the current
EGWP lessor of the discount or copay logic and approve a return to the more typical lessor of the drug
cost or copay logic. The motion was seconded by Trustee Goode.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
Mr. Levin reported that UHC is currently working to provide additional information about UHC’s
urgent care network, and information on audiologists and hearing aid network providers.
A Segal memo outlining the Dental Request for Information (RFI) process was discussed. It was noted
the fee quoted for the Dental RFI was on a project basis. Since Segal’s agreement with the Fund
terminates at the end of 2017, Mr. Levin offered three different fee structure approaches to a new
contract: the first option is a flat annual fee for ongoing basic services with additional engagements
priced on a per project basis; the second option is a bundled price for basic services over a three year
period with project costs amortized, and the third option bundles health care consulting (basic and
projects) with actuarial consulting amortized over a three year period. Segal is offering pricing
discounts for options two and three.
After Mr. Levin and Mr. Wyszomirski excused themselves from the meeting, the Committee discussed
Segal’s various proposal options and the types of basic services and projects the Fund is expected to
need during the proposed contract period. It was agreed that a medical RFP may not be required if
UHC’s performance is satisfactory. Trustee White suggested the Fund establish guidelines for how
frequently the medical plan contract should be bid and offered to develop recommendations.
Ms. Hawes was directed to ask Segal to revise their proposal; clarify the bundled fee structure for
options one and two, and illustrate how fee proposals would change if the medical RFP was eliminated.
Adjournment: Trustee McFadden made a motion to adjourn, Trustee Goode seconded the motion. The
motion was approved.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 