STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 13, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Michael Coli, Member of the Board;
Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the
Board (participated by telephone-conference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members.
John F. Brosnan, Ellen M. Strizak, and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 8, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the April 8, 2008 meeting. Member Hade moved
to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion—four in favor, none
against—Member Piper abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-CA-07-139 and S-CA-07-141
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of
Winnebago/Coroner of Winnebago County

Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) Kazanjian's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review
the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-CA-07-209
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/New Lenox Fire Protection District
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a partial dismissal
on February 21, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented
by the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-08-065
Waukegan Fire Fighters Union, Local 473, Int'l Association of Fire Fighters/City of Waukegan
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
March 20, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that the legislature was working on a budget and that Fiscal Officer Hildebrand
would email the most recent fiscal report to the Board during the week of May 18. After a short discussion,
the Board questioned whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this
time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of June, 2008.

2

 