MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
May 23, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, May 23, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:00 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele,
Lee Gould, Michael Holewinski and Chairman Aaron Jaffe.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of April 17, 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Statute referencing “casino chips” was revised so that
each chip must be engraved or imprinted thereon the name and location of the issuing Riverboat
Gaming Operation and the name/logo/or distinctive design of the Supplier of chips. Our staff
attorney Bill Bogot has been working with the casinos so that all are in compliance.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Caesars Entertainment Corporation – Ownership Restructuring
Member Gould moved to Waive the Two-Meeting Rule for Caesars
Entertainment Corporation’s request for ownership restructuring. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve Mr.
Jonathon Jay Coslet’s transfer of his 16.67% ownership interest in Hamlet
Holdings, LLC equally to Mr. David Bonderman and Mr. James Coulter,
giving Mr. Bonderman and Mr. Coulter each a 25% ownership interest in
Hamlet Holdings, LLC. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 •

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and
Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – Jason A.
Taylor, Regional Director of Internal Audit for Penn National Gaming, Inc. –
Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Jason A. Taylor as a Key Person of Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora,
Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora in his position as Regional Director of
Internal Audit of Penn National Gaming, Inc. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – David J.
Blaha, Internal Auditor Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
David J. Blaha as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as
Internal Auditor Manager of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

The Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton – Gregory R.
Moore, Director of Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board
approve Gregory R. Moore as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his
position as Director of Finance of The Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Argosy
Casino Alton. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Leonard W.
McCullough, Director of CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC – Key Person –
Motion Clarification
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board clarify that its February 2013
approval of Leonard W. McCullough as a Key Person of Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino is for his position as Director of
CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. – Atul Bali, President & CEO – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve Atul
Bali as a Key Person of Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. in his position as President

2

 •

& Chief Executive Officer. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
House Advantage, LLC – New Supplier Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that House Advantage,
LLC be granted a Supplier’s License for a term of one year and that the
following positions and individuals be designated as Key Persons of the licensee:
President/CEO; and Jon C. Wolfe. I also move that House Advantage, LLC be
authorized to supply the HALo Kiosk and HALo Promotions software products
to Illinois Owner Licensees. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board find
suitable and approve 39 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 138
applications for Level 3 Occupational Licenses and that the Administrator issue
Notices of Denial to Christopher A. Burrell, Albert Brown, Jr., and Frederick
Stallis. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
• Elizabeth Acevilla
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint and revoke the Occupational License of Elizabeth Acevilla
due to her theft from Hollywood Casino Aurora, said action to take effect twentyone days from the date of service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer within
that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• Encarnacion C. Caluza
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint and revoke the Occupational License of Encarnacion C.
Caluza due to her theft from Hollywood Casino Aurora, said action to take effect
twenty-one days from the date of service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer
within that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• Judith L. Christensen
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint and revoke the Occupational License of Judith L.
Christensen due to her conviction of a crime of dishonesty, said action to take effect
twenty-one days from the date of service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer
within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 • Michael O. Jennings
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint and revoke the Occupational License of Michael O.
Jennings due to his conviction of a felony offense, said action to take effect twentyone days from the date of service of the Complaint unless he files an Answer within
that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• Louis Raymond Ramos
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint and revoke the Occupational License of Louis Raymond
Ramos due to his admitted theft of a diamond bracelet from a casino patron, said
action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless he files an Answer within that time period. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• Carmelo M. Preiti
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint against Carmelo M. Preiti for failing to disclose all material
changes in information to the Board and that the Board revoke his occupational
license, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless he files an Answer or pays a $500.00 fine within that time period.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
• Dorothy Edith Stump
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint against Dorothy Edith Stump for failing to disclose all
material changes in information to the Board and that the Board revoke her
occupational license, said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of
service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer or pays a $250.00 fine within
that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:54 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 