MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 17, 2000
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 17, 2000 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory C. Jones and Members
Sterling M. Ryder and Stuart P. Levine. Members Joseph Lamendella and Staci Yandle
were not present for the meeting.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan S. McDonald, Thomas Swoik, and James W. Wagner, Deputy Chief Legal
Counsel Jeannette P. Tamayo, and other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones re-convened the Closed Session at 9:30 a.m. in the 3rd floor Board
Conference Room.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:32 P.M.
Chairman’s Report

Chairman Jones announced that Members Joseph Lamendella and Staci Yandle were not
present due to other commitments.
Member Ryder discussed the 2000 Update Report by the Illinois Economic and Fiscal
Commission, which addresses all forms of gambling in the State of Illinois. Member Ryder
stated that he feels that the predictions in the latest report, based on the laws that are in
existence now, are understated in terms of the receipts and potential receipts from riverboat
gambling.
Administrator’s Report

Administrator Acosta announced the passing away of Mr. Carlos Sanchez, who was an
Auditor for the Gaming Board for over eight years.
Board Policy Items
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette Tamayo, informed the Board that, with its
permission, she would submit proposed legislation for the upcoming year, which would be
the same proposal that the Board approved for the last couple of years. The proposal would

 deal with numerous issues including ownership interests, owner licensee contracts, courtappointed receiver, youth access, clarifications to the application process, training of gaming
employees, and clarifications in regards to gaming equipment and supplies.
Ms. Tamayo also provided a briefing on the morning meeting of the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules (JCAR). Ms. Tamayo stated that the Committee voted 4-1 to oppose
the proposed rulemaking on the hours of alcohol sales. Ms. Tamayo stated that the Board
proposed 9:30 a.m.-4:00 a.m. JCAR opposed those hours on the basis that they are not
restrictive enough, with one member preferring that the casinos adhere to the local standards
which cease alcohol sales between 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. Ms. Tamayo stated that JCAR
will issue a Certificate of Objection to the Board and the Board will have ninety days to
consider the issue. During that time, the Board could amend its proposed rule, accept the
recommendation from JCAR or reject the recommendation from JCAR. A Certificate of No
Objection should be received on the Receivership Rule, the Records Retention Policy and
Rule 3000.636.
Member Ryder asked if the Certificate of Objection from JCAR will articulate the reasons for
the objection. Ms. Tamayo stated that generally the certificate identifies the specific
concerns.
Member Ryder asked if a licensee and a local community could agree on a set of hours less
than those proposed. Ms. Tamayo stated that any licensee could set more prudent hours as
long as the hours do not start earlier than the time set by the Board or allow sales after the
time set by the Board.
Public Commentary
Rev. Tom Grey, representing The National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, reviewed
an article from Smart Money Magazine Ten Things the Gaming Industry Won’t Tell You.
Mr. Grey asked the Board not to make any decisions on Emerald until the Supreme Court
rules. He also asked that Member Levine withdraw from voting on Emerald Casino when the
Board votes.
Jack Roeser, Family Taxpayers Network, was present to discuss the investigation that Family
Taxpayers Network conducted of Senate Bill 1017. Mr. Roeser stated that he has been
unable to obtain from IGB staff the operating expenses of the different boats because the
information was allegedly confidential. Mr. Roeser discussed Family Taxpayers Network’s
publication, The Champion, which he said is published to expose the public in Illinois to the
various issues involving the gambling bill. Copies of the publication were distributed to the
Board members. Mr. Roeser briefly recited some of the problems dealing with Senate Bill
1017.
Administrator Acosta stated that Gaming Board staff would contact Mr. Roeser to determine
what type of information he was unable to obtain previously. If it is public information, it will
be made available to him.
2

 Chairman Jones stated that staff will look into what Mr. Roeser is trying to obtain, and if it is
not within the non-disclosure requirements of the Gaming Board Rules, Mr. Roeser is entitled
to the information.
Member Ryder questioned a statement made in the publication about the boats operating 24hours a day. Administrator Acosta stated that the Gaming Board has never authorized 24hour gaming, but that there were some requests last fall to go to 24-hours; however those
requests were withdrawn before the Board took any action. None of the casinos are permitted
to operate 24-hours a day.
John C. Foley, with Interim Holdings, LLC., was present to discuss Argosy Gaming Co. Mr.
Foley read a prepared statement that was distributed to the Board members and Administrator
Acosta. Overall, the statement outlined alleged misconduct by Argosy.
Owner Licensee Items

HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA – Ed Pratt, President of Hollywood Casino
Aurora, other staff members of Hollywood Casino, and community leaders were present
on behalf of Hollywood Casino to request initial consideration for renewal of their
Owner’s License. Mr. Pratt presented the Board with a video, highlighting commitments
to the City of Aurora and the State of Illinois, in terms of tax revenue, economic
development, tourism, and community involvement. As of June 2000 of this year,
Hollywood Casino projects that it has contributed over $311 million in taxes to state and
local governments and generated over $617 million in economic activity since 1993.
Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood Casino would continue to consider other opportunities
for improving their operations and expanding their facilities, ranging from a capitol
improvement basis to a marketing basis, to ensure that they will always maintain one of
the highest quality facilities in Illinois. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood Casino would
continue to support economic development and tourism in the community and in the
State of Illinois. Mr. Pratt represented that Hollywood would continue to be involved
with charitable organizations, not only by giving money, but also by encouraging every
staff member to donate their time. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood Casino would always
demonstrate the utmost respect to the Gaming Board and would always meet its
regulatory commitments.
Member Ryder asked if the Casino has any impact on the small businesses in the
community. Sherman Jenkins, Executive Director of the Economic Development
Commission, stated that Hollywood Casino has made a strong impact on small businesses
in the community. Mr. Jenkins stated that, due to the business relationship with
Hollywood Casino, many small businesses have had the opportunity to grow and prosper.
Chairman Jones questioned the statement made during the video presentation regarding
significant expenditures by Hollywood Casinos involving local vendors. Mr. Jenkins

3

 stated that citywide and over the period of time that the casino has been operating,
expenditures are in the millions. Sue Vos, Executive Director of Convention and
Tourism Council, stated that in the downtown area particularly, over the last few years, a
lot of new entertainment and cultural opportunities have been presented to the community
because of the existence of the casino.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – Attorney Donna More and Bill Renk, Director of Marketing
for Casino Rock Island, were present on behalf of Casino Rock Island to request initial
consideration for approval of a site modification. Ms. More stated that the modification
would consist of the casino relocating from the current site in Rock Island to another site
approximately 3½ miles away. The new location would still be within the City of Rock
Island and on the Mississippi River. Ms. More stated that one reason for the request is
safety concerns. Ms. More represented that the U.S. Coast Guard performed an informal
risk assessment and discovered certain risks. Ms. More stated that the new location
would foster economic development, promote tourism and generate greater adjusted
gross revenues. Ms. More stated that the Mayor of Rock Island has embraced the project.
Mr. Renk presented the Board with photos of the present site and explained plans for the
new location.
IGB staff will meet with Donna More and Casino Rock Island’s staff to discuss further
issues regarding the site modification request and whether the casino will continue to be
“on the Mississippi River.”
Chairman Jones asked how the community leaders feel about moving the casino from the
downtown area to a more remote undeveloped site, in terms of business near the casino.
Ms. More stated that the Mayor is fully supportive of the project and views it as a catalyst
for greater development.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND- Attorney Donna More was present on behalf of Casino Rock
Island to request initial consideration for a Transfer of Ownership Interest. Ms. More
stated that Mr. Jummer, the majority shareholder of Casino Rock Island, is seeking to
transfer a portion of his ownership interest to each of his three children. Ms. More stated
that the amount of ownership that each child would have would be just over 2%. Ms.
More stated that she would provide Administrator Acosta with more documentation
stating the actual amount of shares to be transferred.
ALTON BELLE CASINO - Brenda Bauer, Vice President and General Manager, was
present on behalf of Alton Belle Casino to request final action on Alton’s license renewal
application.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve the Owner's License of Alton Belle Casino for a term of 3 years. In
doing so, the Board recognizes that Alton Belle has made numerous improvements,
4

 but admonishes that it needs to continue to work on enhancing its overall
management and operations. The Board orders the following:
1.

Until further notice, Alton Belle Casino must submit
documentation to the Administrator on a quarterly basis, which
describes: (a) the training provided to all personnel, especially
slot department and security personnel, hired during that
quarter, (b) the discipline administered to all personnel,
especially slot department and security personnel; and (c) the
overall supervision of the slot department personnel by
management.

2.

The Alton Belle must provide the Administrator with a copy of
its written policy regarding the hiring of minorities and females,
detailing the goals and plans for hiring and promotion.

Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
GRAND VICTORIA – Attorney Donna More was present on behalf of Grand Victoria to
request final action on the casino’s license renewal application.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Ryder moved that the
Board approve the Owner's License of Grand Victoria for a term of 4 years.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Chairman Jones stated that there was a condition placed upon Alton Belle Casino that
they provide plans for minority hiring. Chairman Jones stated that plans for minority
hiring will be discussed during the up-coming General Manager’s Meeting and it will be
determined that all casinos have such written plans in place for review by the Board.
PAR-A-DICE – Attorney Donna More was present on behalf of Par-A-Dice to request
final action on their Financial Reporting Waiver request.
Based on the staff’s review and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the Board
approve the financial reporting waiver sought by Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation.
In doing so, the Board recognizes that there is no longer a need for the maintenance
of a historical basis of accounting. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA – Pat Medchill, General Manager, was present on
behalf of Hollywood Casino to request final action on Hollywood’s Proposed Facility
Reconfiguration plan.
Based on the staff’s review and recommendation, Member Ryder moved that the Board
approve the proposed facility reconfiguration. The approval of the revised facility
reconfiguration is subject to Hollywood updating the Board on the progress of the
construction from time to time, as deemed appropriate by the Administrator.
Further, once the project is completed, Hollywood is to seek final approval from the
Board of its facility reconfiguration after necessary approvals from the State Fire
Marshall, U.S. Coast Guard and other appropriate authorities been obtained. This
approval is subject to Hollywood maintaining its riverboats or another contingency
plan unless further authorized by the Board. Member Levine seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO QUEEN – TERRENCE L. HANGER, M.I.S. DIRECTOR– LEVEL ONE
Craig Travers, General Manager, was present on behalf of Casino Queen to request
approval of Mr. Hanger.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine
moved that the Board approve Terrance L. Hanger as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee of Casino Queen. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS – DOUGLAS HUBER, CORPORATE DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL AUDIT
& COMPLIANCE – KEY PERSON
Attorney Donna More was present on behalf of Empress Casino Joliet to request approval
of Mr. Huber.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Ryder
moved that the Board approve Douglas Charles Huber as a key person of Empress.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Supplier Licensee Items
SILICON GAMING-ILLINOIS, INC. – Attorney Donna More was present on behalf of
Silicon Gaming-Illinois, Inc. to request approval for Mr. Matthews.

Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine
moved that the Board approve Paul David Matthews as a Key Person of Silicon

6

 Gaming-Illinois, Inc. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licensees

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Ryder moved that the
Board approve 115 applications for an Occupational License Level 2, and 432
applications for an Occupational License Level 3, and deny 0 applications for an
Occupational License Level 2, and 2 for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Ryder further moved that, the Board direct the Administrator to contact 4
pending applicants for occupational licenses to notify those applicants that staff has
recommended that the Board deny their applications for an occupational license
and provide these applicants with an opportunity to respond. Member Levine
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:45 P.M., Member Ryder moved to adjourn. Member Levine seconded the motion. The
motion was passed unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,

Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

7

 