MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
April 13 and 14, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, April 13, 2010 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, April 13, 2010 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James
Sullivan. At 9:40 a.m. on Tuesday, April 13, 2010, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 12:20 p.m.
On Wednesday, April 14, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 12:10 p.m. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:15 p.m. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 1:00 p.m. Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene
Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 30, 2010. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISSEMINATION OF CLOSED SESSION MINUTES (July, 2008 – December, 2009 –
Member Winkler moved to make available for public inspection all portions of closed session
minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from July, 2008 through December, 2009 for which

 the need for confidentiality no longer exists. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the May Regular Board meeting will be held at the Casino
Rock Island in Rock Island, Illinois on May 18 and 19, 2010
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Item for Final Action –

Paul Jenson with the law firm of Shefsky and Froelich appeared before the Board on
behalf of MGM.
•
MGM – MGM Mirage’s request to allow Nevada Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary
Guarantor on Certain Debt
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to Section 230(d) of
the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Moore moved to approve MGM’s request for Board
approval of Nevada Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor of the principal
amount of $845 Million of MGM’s 9.0% Senior Notes due 2020, which were sold by MGM
in March, 2009 through private placement. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
•

GEMACO, Inc. – License Renewal

Kate Summers appeared before the Board.
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
renew the Supplier’s License held by GEMACO, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in
April, 2014.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board certify and approve the following entity,
positions, and individuals as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

GemGroup Inc.;
Chief Executive Officer;
Chairman;
Diana Kaye Summers;
Danny R. Carpenter; and

Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize GEMACO Inc. to manufacture,
sell or lease the following products in the State of Illinois:

2

 1. Playing Cards;
2. Table Game Layouts: Baccarat, Mini-baccarat, Blackjack,
Caribbean Draw Poker, Caribbean Stud Poker, Craps, Let It
Ride Poker, Let It Ride Bonus, Multi-Action Blackjack,
Poker, Roulette, Royal Match 21, Single Hand 21, Spanish 21,
Three Card Poker and War;
3. Table Gaming Chips; and
4. The Attendant-Automatic Hopper Fill System.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve 14 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 41 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINT AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
•

Paul Tibbetts – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Paul Tibbetts, an
occupational licensee, for accessing a database without an assigned password
and for failing to delete the names of terminated employees from that
database in violation of Hollywood Casino’s internal controls.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Paul Tibbetts’ occupational
license for 5 work days without pay with credit for 5 days already taken. Said
action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Andrea L. Joiner – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Andrea L. Joiner, an occupational
licensee, due to her January 13, 2010 theft conviction.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Andrea L. Joiner’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
3

 Administrator Ostrowski stated that Casino Rock Island’s refinancing was on the agenda and
was taken off due to the fact that their request did not need Board action.
At 1:12 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 