MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 24, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Special Meeting on March 24, 2005 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe and Members Gary
Peterlin, William Dugan, Eugene Winkler and Charles Gardner.
The Board convened its Open Session at 10:00 A.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe introduced himself to the public. Chairman Jaffe stated that he and two other
members were appointed on Monday and already the Board is conducting its first meeting,
which is an indication that the Board wants to get to work right away. Chairman Jaffe stated
that the Board intends to work very diligently to attend to all of the issues that confront the
Board at this particular time. Chairman Jaffe stated that upon being named as Chairman of
the Board, he contacted individually each one of the Board members. Chairman Jaffe stated
that all of the Board members are on the same page in that the Board wants to do the work
honestly, quickly, fairly, and without any interference from anyone. Chairman Jaffe stated
that he feels that this will be a hardworking Board that will turn out results quickly, however,
the licensees, Staff, and members of the public will have to give the three new Board
members an opportunity to catch up. Chairman Jaffe stated that there is a voluminous
amount of material that the Board has to cover.
Chairman Jaffe thanked Member Dugan and Member Peterlin for all of their hard work.
Chairman Jaffe stated that Members Dugan and Peterlin have really been “keeping down the
fort” during the past seven months. Chairman Jaffe stated that Member Dugan and Member
Peterlin have assured him that they will work with him and the other members of the Board
to help them get up to date.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board would be meeting as often as it needs to in order to deal
with some of the issues that are before the Board.
Chairman Jaffe thanked Interim Administrator Tamayo and Staff for their assistance.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he understands that there have been some territorial issues in the
past between other agencies and the Gaming Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that he would be
talking to everyone that he can in government to solve all of the territorial problems that the

 Board is facing. Chairman Jaffe guaranteed that the Board would be independent of any
other body or persons. Chairman Jaffe stated that this would be the most independent Board
that you will find in government.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the public and the press could count on the Board being as open as
it is legally permitted to be with the public.
Chairman Jaffe stated that there have been some questions raised if there would be changes
in Staff. Chairman Jaffe stated that there would be no changes in Staff at the present time.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the problem is not changes in Staff, the problem is that we are
understaffed. Chairman Jaffe stated that some of the Board’s departments are understaffed
by as much as 50%. Chairman Jaffe stated that it is the Board’s obligation to get the Staff
that is needed. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board could not operate understaffed.
Board Members’ Comments
Member Peterlin stated that the Chairman’s commitment to making sure that the Board
works independently and keeping the Staff in place is refreshing. Member Peterlin stated
that he looks forward to working with the Chairman and the other members of the Board.
Member Peterlin stated that he and Member Dugan have stayed on the Board for the last
eight months under very difficult circumstances because they care. Member Peterlin stated
that although “the sun is setting on their time,” he and Member Dugan have a lot of work to
do. Member Peterlin stated that this industry is very important to the State of Illinois, if it’s a
pristine, pure, well-regulated industry. Member Peterlin stated that if it’s going to be a wellregulated industry, the Board has to be independent.
Member Dugan stated that he concurs with what Member Peterlin said. Member Dugan
stated that he looks forward to working with the new Board members. Member Dugan stated
that the Board would do whatever is best for the State of Illinois and the integrity of gaming.
Member Gardner stated that he is pleased and honored to have the opportunity to serve on
the Board. Member Gardner stated that he is especially pleased to serve with Judge Jaffe,
and that it is truly an honor to be involved with an organization where Judge Jaffe is
chairman of the Board. Member Gardner stated that he would be studying all of the material
that Staff has provided so that he could to catch up.
Member Winkler stated that he is honored to be on the Board. Member Winkler stated that
he is honored that the Governor had the confidence in him to appoint him. Member Winkler
stated that he has a lot to learn in the next few months, but he will do his best and work hard
with all of the members of the Board.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on today’s (March 24, 2005) agenda items
that the Board would be discussing in Closed session.

2

 Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the Board and the public on the construction projects
of Harrah’s Metropolis, Casino Rock Island, and Harrah’s Casino Joliet; MGM’s proposed
acquisition to purchase Mandalay Bay, and Penn National’s request to purchase Argosy
Gaming; and the sales process and litigation matters involving Emerald Casino. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board would be provided with detailed information
regarding the agenda items during Closed session.
Interim Administrator Tamayo introduced Staff to the Board.
At 10:55 A.M., Member Peterlin moved that pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1),
(11), and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss
the following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned Closed session at 11:15 A.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

3

 