STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on November 6, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board;
Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan
and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting. Member Hade was absent due to illness.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 9, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the October 9, 2007 meeting. Member Piper
moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-RC-07-112
1.
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Pekin/Pekin Lodge No. 105, Fraternal Order
of Police, Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council

Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Morris' recommendation.
After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept ALJ's
recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-05-145
Martin Sigsworth/City of Aurora
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion.
The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CB-07-035
Susan Tomas/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on
September 18, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no issue of law or fact raised
therein to warrant an evidentiary hearing. Member Piper moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-07-118
Welch, McGrew, and Widger/State of Illinois, Dept. of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on October 12,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal. Member Coli moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman notified the Board as to the status of legislation that concerns the agency, and distributed the
annual fiscal report prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand. The Chairman and Board members then
discussed various aspects of the fiscal report. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for
executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of December, 2007.

2

 