MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
February 21, 2007
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, February 21, 2007 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held in the conference room of the Crowne Plaza Hotel on the 3rd floor in Springfield,
Illinois for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, James Sullivan and Eugene Winkler.
At 9:35 a.m. on Wednesday, February 21, 2007 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section
6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personal matters.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:10 p.m. The Board went into
Open Session at 1:10 p.m. At 4:27 p.m. the Board reconvened into closed session.
BOARD MEMBER’S COMMENTS Member Winkler addressed Michael Crider General Manager of Metropolis, in reference to
minority hiring. Member Winkler stated that the Board felt that the two General Managers of
Harrah’s were stonewalling the issue. Minority hiring is an issue. He went on the state that
Metropolis’ charitable giving needed to be better. Michael Crider referenced the charitable
giving and stated that not all of the information was available at the time the report was drafted.
The Charitable contributions did not include a contribution to a Woman’s shelter nor did they
count the “hero hours” that staff completed. Also, $30,000 was raised in “relay for life”. More
numbers will be supplied at a later date.
Member Moore stated that the Urban League supplies job counseling and referrals. He asked that
Crider check with them for some ideas.
Member Gardner asked about the charitable contributions issue and asked if Harrah’s donates
money to other charitable causes not mentioned.

 Michael Crider responded that a $12,000 donation to a woman’s shelter with a five-year
commitment for a total of $60,000 also was made. Crider referenced the “meals on wheels”
volunteer program.
Member Gardner stated that on the year-end report none of the above was referenced.
Crider stated that the organization is not aggressive enough in listing its charitable activities.
Member Gardner stated that the employment statistics should not be centered just on Massac
County, it goes all the way to Nashville. You should be comparing yourself to all of the area not
just one particular county.
CHAIRMAN’S AND ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – The Administrator welcomed the
Springfield staff and commented on a job well done. Mark reported on the meeting with the
General Managers Mike Crider from Harrah’s Metropolis and Joe Domenico of Harrah’s Joliet.
Mark stated that Jim Milne and his staff forwarded some preliminary plans as it pertains to the
Rock Island project. Mark went on to thank Tom Monaghan and his staff for keeping us updated
on the Casino Queen construction, which is on schedule. Mark also stated that the March Board
meeting will be March 21, 2007 in Chicago.
The Chairman echoed Mark’s comments about the Springfield staff. The Chairman also
introduced Caleb Melamed for Self-Exclusion procedures and requirements for removal under
Board Policy Items.
Mike Fries stated that Caleb is making a presentation on where we are with these proposed rules,
and we will be happy to answer any questions. Mike stated that we will be looking for some
direction from the Board as to three particular items that have to be resolved.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS –
During its September 12, 2006 open meeting, the Gaming Board approved a proposed rule
relating to the board’s self-exclusion program. The proposed rule was amendatory in nature,
establishing needed standards and procedures governing removals of persons from the SelfExclusion List, and clarifying various ambiguities in the language of the current self-exclusion
rule. The 45-day First Notice period for the proposed rule began on October 13, 2006 and ended
on November 26, 2006. The First Notice period is defined by statute as a period of notice to the
general public, during which any person or organization may submit data, views, arguments, or
comments, either orally or in writing, to the agency that has proposed the rule (in this case the
Gaming Board).
The proposed rule is now ready to enter the Second Notice period. This period begins on the
date that the proposal is received by the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR), and
lasts for 45 days, unless extended for an additional 45 days by agreement of the agency and
JCAR. Once the Second Notice period begins, an agency can change a proposed rule only in
response to objections or suggestions from JCAR.

2

 Preliminary to submitting the proposed rule for Second Notice publication, the Gaming Board
must evaluate all submissions by members of the public during the First Notice period. Based on
these evaluations, the board may then make amendatory changes to the rule’s language.
The board has received only one public comment on the proposed rule--an October 23, 2006
letter submitted by Mr. Tom Swoik on behalf of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association. Mr.
Swoik’s proposed changes are the following:
First, he proposes a reduction in the size of the self-exclusion zone. As currently drafted, the
proposed rule provides that SEP enrollees shall be barred from “all riverboat gaming operations,”
with “riverboat gaming operations” defined to include not only the gaming areas themselves, but
also all of an owner licensee’s adjacent food, entertainment, shopping and hotel facilities.
Mr. Swoik recommends limiting the self-exclusion zone to the “gaming floor premises and
turnstiles of a riverboat gaming operation.” In defense of this more restricted self-exclusion
zone, he writes that:
[T]he proposed change goes well beyond the intent of the State’s
Self-Exclusion Program if it prohibits an SEP enrollee from
utilizing the non-gaming amenities offered by a licensee. An
example of such an activity would be a wedding reception held in
our banquet halls or ballrooms. These areas are not part of the
“gaming floor.” We believe the language in the proposed rules
would prohibit self-excluded individuals from attending such
activities. We believe that the original intent of the IGB Statewide
Self-Exclusion Program was not directed at keeping SEP enrollees
from utilizing the non-gaming amenities of the licensees, but was
intended to keep SEP enrollees from coming back to a riverboat
casino to gamble.
In connection with his discussion of the size of the self-exclusion zone, Mr. Swoik also notes
“what may appear to be a conflicting position that some of our members take on this issue.” He
says that some owner licensees may wish to expand the size of the self-exclusion zone in
conformity with their corporate policies to encompass their entire riverboat gaming operations.
Staff takes note that, even under the more limited self-exclusion zone proposed by Mr. Swoik,
the owner licensees would, as private property owners, be able to expand the exclusion zone to
encompass their entire properties.
Mr. Swoik’s second recommendation is an amendment to language in the proposed rule change
that appears to require personnel of the owner licensees to conduct personal searches of SEP
violators found on gaming premises. He states that “it was never the intent of this particular
rule to allow such searches,” and proposed amending the proposed rule’s language to make
clear that such searches by casino personnel are not permitted.

3

 Mr. Swoik’s final suggested change is a liability waiver for the owner licensees. As currently
drafted, the proposed rule requires a person requesting removal from the self-exclusion list to
provide the Administrator with:
A waiver of liability of the Board, its agents and the State of Illinois
for any damages that may arise out of any act or omission
committed by the person as a consequence of his or her removal
from the Self-Exclusion List, including any monetary or other
damages sustained in connection with the person’s renewal of any
gaming activities.
Mr. Swoik requests that the above waiver also include all owner licensees. As redrafted, the
proposed rule would then provide for:
“A waiver of liability of the Board, its agents and the State of
Illinois, and a waiver of liability for all Licensees.”
In defense of this proposed change, Mr. Swoik writes that:
Since the enrollee is asking for reinstatement and the
Administrator and/or Board is making the decision to reinstate, and
we have no involvement in the decision, the waiver of liability
should include the Licensee. Further, under the circumstances, it is
the Licensee that would have the largest potential exposure to suit
from the enrollee.
Staff Responses
Chief counsel Michael Fries has distributed a copy of Mr. Swoik’s letter to various senior staff
and board attorneys for their comments. I will attempt to accurately summarize the staff
comments with respect to each of the issues raised in the letter:
Staff reactions were divided on the letter’s suggestion to limit the self-exclusion zone to the
gaming premises and turnstiles. Some staff members supported the narrower exclusion zone
(which includes only the gaming premises and turnstiles), for the reasons expressed by Mr.
Swoik. Other staff members favored keeping the current, proposed language providing for the
exclusion of SEP enrollees from all riverboat gaming operations, in their entirety. These staff
members argued that SEP members who were present anywhere on casino properties might, as a
result, have a greater propensity to gamble. It was also pointed out that the Grand Victoria
Casino has a cage in the pavilion, well outside the turnstile area, where checks can be cashed,
and vouchers redeemed. I would also note that, when asked at a dockside supervisors’ meeting
held at the Par-A-Dice Casino (on November 1 and 2, 2006), the dockside supervisors were all in
agreement that the self-exclusion zone should encompass the entire riverboat gaming operations.
Concerning Mr. Swoik’s second point relating to personal searches, it is the position of staff that
personnel of the owner licensees should not conduct personal searches, and that the language of

4

 the proposed rule should be amended accordingly to make this clear. Personal searches by
casino personnel are not allowed under the current rule, and it was never the intent of the
proposed rule change to authorize them.
Staff does not support Mr. Swoik’s suggestion that the liability waiver, signed by persons
seeking removal from the SEP list, should be applicable to the licensees. There appears no need
for such a waiver, as new Section 3000.786 (a) of the proposed rule provides that:
Each owner and manager licensee shall establish its own policies and
procedures for allowing or disallowing any person removed from the SelfExclusion List to enter or game on its riverboat gaming operation subsequent
to the person’s removal from the Self-Exclusion List. The polices and
procedures of owner and manager licensees developed in compliance with this
Section shall not be subject to appeal under this Part.
Thus, if an owner licensee is concerned about its potential liability to persons removed from the
self-exclusion list, it can simply bar these persons from entry from its properties... In addition, it
is extremely doubtful whether the board could legally grant such a liability waiver. The power to
grant liability waivers for private parties rests with the Illinois General Assembly rather than
administrative boards such as the Gaming Board.
Chairman stated that taking the issues one by one and discussing them; first one being the limit
of the zone. Staff has been divided on this issue. Member Winkler stated that the policy now
states the pool zone. Mike stated that the zone would include the entire gaming operation.
Currently the rules are mixed from the way they were originally drafted. Some rules refer to the
gaming area, some rules are broader. At a minimum the rules need to be clarified so there is
uniformity.
Member Winkler asked if there was any way or method that can encompass all nine casinos,
because of the different configurations of the buildings? Each one unique in their own way. It
would be different for each casino. Mike agreed that each facility is designed differently.
Member Winkler stated that it would be difficult to draft a rule to encompass all casinos without
their being some difficulty for self excluded persons being a reception. Mike agreed that Mr.
Swoik’s comments were geared toward a smaller zone, one way to achieve that would be to have
the zone be encompassed by the admission turn-style. All areas within the admission turn-style.
Some are located right at the entrance to the casino area, some are at the entrance to the pavilion.
Caleb went on to state the basic policy question here is in favor of broadening the self exclusion
are to encompass the entire casino properties. The argument in favor of that is if you make the
exclusion area smaller then SEP enrollees who attend the properties they see the gaming area,
they may have a greater propensity to gamble. The argument in favor of a more limited which
encompasses the gaming areas and turn-styles is that the argument posed by Tom Swoik is that
these are hotel properties, they have receptions, banquets, etc. they are not related to gaming.

5

 Tom Swoik stated that the rule is so restricted that technically speaking is that if you held a
meeting at one of the casinos, we would have to check the identification of every person entering
the casino under 30 years old to make sure that they were not on the SEP list. The same thing
with diversity conferences anything that would be open to the general public would have to be
restricted by checking for identifications. The past few years there have been numerous attempts
at legislation and even some pushing on both Gaming Board’s part and some legislatures part to
discuss that the casinos expand their facilities to make them more than just a casino; to add a
hotel, add shopping, and to have more non casino type jobs. Bowling alleys, golf courses, and
entertainment type compound. By restricting this to the gaming floor you are making the whole
facility restricted.
Member Gardner asked if Tom suggested that a golf course is not a gaming facility.
Gene O’Shea stated there are ways to work this out. He received an email from Rance Robinson
the docksite supervisor from the Empress, a high school football coach wanted to attend a
coaching seminar at the Empress, and was a self excluded person therefore he would not be able
to go. Rance and Gene talked about it and agreed that he should be allowed to go since it was
part of his job; the coach realizing that he was unable to go into any of the gaming areas. Each
situation is unique.
Tome Swoik stated that the check cashing area is outside of the casino floor and all are check
against the self exclusion list before the check is cashed.
Member Gardner stated that regardless of where the limits are established, if the facility is doing
check cashing at the hotel desk, they should be checking it against the SEP list. Member
Gardner believes that there is a consistency issue here that can help decide this. The idea of all
patrons identifying themselves with ID’s and clearly the place where they would do that is at the
turn-styles. The goal here would be to check the ID’s of all prospective players before they get
into the facility, these limits would be established at the turn-styles.
The Chairman stated that he felt that this was a good idea. Tom stated that as indicated in the
past the things that are being done now have improved the SEP program and will continue to
operate in that manner. As indicated before, there still is very serious concerns about restricting
individuals in areas of the casino or requiring them to give identification when none of the
casinos in the bordering states are doing that. There would be a 15%-20% in revenues if in fact
we were required to card every individual that enters the casino. We are still talking about 15M
admissions a year and 4,000 people being on the SEP list. The responsibility still lies on the
individual who signed up for the SEP list.
Member Gardner stated with regard to the second point he is not quite sure that Caleb touched on
it, it is clear to Member Gardner that regardless of where the limits are set, the facilities are able
to expand those limits. If a restricted limit would be set, that is restricted inside the turn-styles
but beyond that you are not restricted, it is clear that the casinos themselves are allowed to
expand that area. The Board is perfectly comfortable with the casinos being more restrictive.

6

 Caleb stated that point two is basically an inadvertent error in drafting. The word “or” was put in
the wrong place; seemingly requiring personal searches by casino personal of SEP violators
found on the gaming floor. This was never the Gaming Board’s intent and this would merely
involve the word “or” backwards about four words.
Mike Fries stated that it is to clarify that there isn’t an expectation by the Gaming Board of the
owner licensees to conduct personal searches of self excluded persons that are apprehended on
the property. It does not have anything to do with the Gaming Board’s or any other law
enforcement agencies’ ability to conduct a search incident to arrest. It is to clarify that the
expectation is not there for the owner licensee.
The liability waiver for the owner licensee, right now extends to the State of Illinois, this would
extend it to the owner licensees. The Chairman stated that we have no jurisdiction at all. We
cannot give a waiver of liability; that would be up to the legislature to act in that regard.
Caleb stated that the liability waiver for the State already exists under “Sovereign Immunity” and
this would be creating a new immunity from liability that an administrative board such as the
Gaming Board has no legal authority to do so, it has to be enacted by the General Assembly.
Member Gardner stated that he finds no reason not to insert the language that the industry is
asking for in the document that we are asking the gamers to sign. He agrees that it may do no
good to anybody but if it can prevent each casino from requiring the SEP person from having to
sign a separate form at each casino because the industry will agree that including this language in
our form satisfies them then I think we should do that.
Mike Fries stated that he disagrees respectfully that the Board does not have the legal authority
to grant a waiver or immunity; only the legislature could do that. Mike pointed out that the
waiver that is presently in there is intended because it is the Board that is taking the action to
remove the person from the list. It is not the licensee that is actually taking the action to do so.
The Chairman stated that the problem that he has is that he does not like to pass things that we
cannot enforce. The truth of the matter is that if we have something that has a waiver and we
don’t have the ability to do that; that can be knocked out by the courts. Whereas the Chairman
sympathizes with feelings, we cannot grant waivers according to the law.
Mike Fries stated that as a point of clarification perhaps we can do a role call on the question of
whether or not the Board wishes to revise the proposed rule 786 to include waiver for the owner
licensees as well. This way we would have a record of the Board’s wishes.
The Chairman stated that he does not believe that we can have a waiver and he will not vote for
anything that is useless. Member Gardner voted with the Chairman. Member Moore voted the
same, as did Member Sullivan. Member Winkler stated no change also.
Mike Fries stated that he was asking the Board to entertain a motion to allow staff to file second
notice with JCAR and upon adoption of the approved rules we be allowed to publish them with

7

 the Secretary of State provided that there are no significant or material changes to those rules in
the second notice process.
Member Gardner asked how the first issue is settled. Mike Fries stated that based upon the
discussion; it is our understanding that there is a consensus to limit it to the turn-style area but
why don’t we make a record of that. The question would be, does the Board wish to revise the
proposed rules in order to reduce the self exclusion zone from what is currently proposed as the
entire gaming operation to a smaller zone that includes the admission turn-styles. Currently as
drafted it is the entire riverboat gaming operation; the question on the table is whether or not we
revise the proposed rules so that it is a smaller zone; within the admission turn-style area as
opposed to the whole riverboat gaming operation. The Chairman stated that maybe the larger
zone is too large.
Member Moore asked that in reference to reducing the area could it be considered to those areas
that are Board meeting rooms and banquet facilities versus just the gaming floor itself. Could
there be some type of compromise.
Fries stated that each casino is designed differently and that could lead to a great deal of
confusion. Right now the two clearest standards that we have are the entire operation or within
the turn-style area, that is a clearly defined area that is in each property’s internal controls.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he likes Member Gardner’s proposal that we make it smaller, then let
us exclude people by identifying them with a driver’s license or something to that effect.
Fries asked if there were any questions in reference to the zone exclusion area.
Member Gardner asked if a resolution were to pass that states that the area of the turn-style
would be limited but licensees would be expected to identify people at entrances, does the
industry have a chance to comment on the rule? Fries stated that it should be offered to the
industry to comment on.
Member Gardner proposed that as a motion that the Board establish the limits of the SEP to
inside the turn-styles provided that the licensees check ID’s at the turn-styles of all potential
gamers.
Caleb stated that it could also be drafted in the alternative, if there is no universal check of ID’s
then its the entire riverboat gaming operation. If there is a check of everyone then it is limited to
the turn-styles.
Fries added that he thinks there might be some confusion in a couple different items. What is on
the table right now, is whether or not the rule as proposed gets changed so that there is a different
definition. Fries suggested that we can make the decision on the item that be discussed at a
different time. Fries stated that we can’t tie one to the other today.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he would be in favor of accepting the larger area today, and we will
talk to the industry later concerning another rule.

8

 Fries stated that he then would need to ask for some clarification by each of the Board members
as to the question as to direction whether or not the staff is being advised to revise the rule to
limit or reduce the self exclusion zone or should we keep it as currently drafted. The current
draft applies to the entire riverboat gambling operation. Chairman Jaffe stated that he would
want it to apply to the entire operation, the Chairman said that he thinks the Board and staff
could talk to the industry at a later time, that has nothing to do with the motion.
Member Moore stated that if we restrict the entire operation does that include the parking lot for
the SUV’s and other facilities associated with it such as the hotels. Fries stated that the riverboat
gaming operation is defined in the rules, it is included; it speaks of the riverboat and its support
facilities. Unfortunately support facilities is not defined.
Member Moore asked that Mike Fries clarify that last point about restricting everyone from the
entire facility inside and out; Caleb stated that he was not sure if that was something you would
want to do with this rule because it is really extending to a completely different topic. You could
make this a smaller exclusion zone contingent upon checking everyone’s ID that enters the
gaming area.
Mike Fries stated that he mis-spoke, he was looking at the wrong definition; the support facility
is defined as also including the parking facility.
Member Gardner stated that the current rule is inconsistent; the people that signed up for the SEP
list; what do they think that they are excluded from? What does their application say? The
entire facility. Mike stated that just for the record, the support facilities includes without
limitation riverboats, offices, docking facilities, parking facilities and land based hotels or
restaurants.
Swoik stated that another option potentially and we had talked about doing this in the submission
of our letter and honestly he didn’t believe that he addressed it in the letter but another way of
handling this is changing the definition of a casino facility to include the gambling portion so
that you don’t include hotels and other things that Fries alluded to. If that was changed it would
still mean that there would be restrictions on ball rooms, restaurants, and those kind of things that
are outside of the gambling facility. Swoik stated that he did not know how many people that
this effects, but again you are limiting individuals being able to attend that entertainment venue
for other purposes other than gaming. Gaming Board meetings and those kind of things unless
you provide a waiver when anything like that has happened. Swoik stated that he believed that
more individuals attended those kind of events than the number of people that you have on the
SEP list. You are penalizing the non SEP individuals.
Member Moore asked how many people on the SEP list would like to come to a gaming facility
for the purpose of attending a meeting or having lunch. Swoik stated that he did not know what
the answer to that is.
Member Gardner stated that if we adopt a rule as stated that SEP’s are excluded from the entire
facility that has nothing to do with people who are not SEP’s. They can come anywhere they

9

 want at any time, and how often. Swoik stated that his point was that if in fact the restriction is
on the gaming floor once you enter the turn-styles, if the restrictions is limited to that; then
anybody can attend anything going on at any other part of the facility.
Member Winkler stated that since we did not know if the person does not go through the turnstyle say that person is attending a wedding reception or meeting or a diversity fair, whatever,
that person does not go through the turn-style; we do not know whether or not that person is on
the SEP list. Swoik stated that is right, but if in fact the entire facility is restricted, then it is put
on us to determine whether or not that person is a SEP individual or not. Member Winkler asked
what if everyone who went through the turn-style was identified? Swoik stated that is another
issue that we worked on and a compromise was reached, doing a lot more things than we were
doing then. In order to make that change on a moment’s notice is fairly significant. That is
going to have a lot of long lasting effects on the revenues of the casinos. Member Winkler asked
in what way this would effect the revenues. Swoik stated that we were checking people that
appeared to be under 30 for the age requirement, and the boats have made more progress on
reviewing who is on that list and watching for people. To check every person’s ID restricts the
entrance of that casino over a period of time significantly; and once again you don’t have to do it
in Indiana. We are looking at market sharing again.
Member Gardner asked that if we were to approve that motion is it not the case, if we as a group
do not want to change the rule as proposed; Mike stated then it stands as is. Member Gardner
stated that we then can pass the motion right back. Mike stated that the rules as they now stand
are as they were proposed. Staff is just looking for direction from the board as to whether or not
there should be an amendment. Member Gardner commented that the SEP people have
excluded themselves from the entire facility. Gene O’Shea stated that the docksite supervisors,
the people in the trenches are telling you that they wanted it to be the entire facility. The people
that signed the form think they are excluded from the entire facility.
Fries stated that only compromise that could be contemplated by the Board would be to exclude
support facilities in the Rule. Exclude it from the Riverboat Gaming operation, except for the
support facilities. We are not advocating that but it is something the Board should consider.
Member Winkler moved that this matter be tabled until the March meeting. Chairman Jaffe
agreed.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY – Tom Grey
Tom Grey addressed the Board. He stated that it is a welcome to see a regulatory body has
interaction with issues. He stated that he would like to put in perspective the finances; Harrah’s
spent $20M to lose $63M - $38M in Rhode Island to establish a casino. Whenever you are
talking about money that casinos give, I want you to know how much they spend to increase their
markets and to get in places. He went on to state that they were able to win 3 statewide
referendums all with votes of 58% to 63%. What was said back in July that he thinks the future
looks good for those people that are saying enough is enough, the track record holds whenever
we put it on a ballot. Lou Lang has other ideas and Illinois is not a place that will ever vote on
gambling. He stated that he made the long trip to Springfield because essentially Illinois has

10

 what he considers to be a tremendous important decision before you, based on what happened in
1999. In 1999 a special meeting was called so that a sale of the Joliet Empress could be
transacted. It was set to meet a deadline of the sellers of the Empress. The Board went into a
special meeting, they voted, and at that moment what happened was they had voted a split
decision to approve a sale that staff did not recommend. Since that time, the Board was relatively
inoculated from the type of political pressure that you face in Illinois. From that point the media
scrutiny was heavy, the public started to participate by coming to meetings, and the Board was
able to operate in a truly independent, transparent and open manner. What you are faced with
now is a similar situation in that there has been a deadline established and Member Gardner
raised the question that the Board is not going to move by the cadence of the casino, but the
Board will do their due diligence with your staff investigations. Grey went on to state that he
believes that the public wants this to happen. It is important that you maintain the sense that this
is not done for the convenience of the people you regulate but done on behalf of the process
itself.
Secondly, there is a way of saying that you play one state against the other to get what you want.
If Iowa has docksite gambling, then Illinois has to have docksite. Indiana did not have docksite,
Illinois went with docksite. It is ok if Illinois has stricter standards that everyone else. Let them
meet your standards. Missouri was not noted for its toughness. It had some scandals there that
were pretty apparent in terms of Board members caught in transactions and certain deals.
Columbia Sussex was told that Missouri staff would recommend non-suitability. As a result,
their application was withdrawn. It was not voted on. Casino Watchers are watching what you
do in the same way as we watched what Indiana did when you disapproved Jack Binion. Jack
walked over to Indiana and said you can throw me out, but Indiana will take me. Tom Grey
stated that all he is asking is take your time, do a thorough investigation, turn over the rocks and
see what’s going on. Make decisions based on what is good for the citizens of Illinois, not what
is good for the casino owners who are expediting the sale. Hold that high ground.
The Chairman stated that Anita Bedell gave us the same speech a month ago, only you did it a
little bit nicer than she did. The Chairman stated we are not exactly rushing on this it has been
only 8 months since they agreed to sell and we are not complete yet.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
a.

Items for Initial Consideration –
•

Acquisition of Harrah’s Joliet and Harrah’s Metropolis by Apollo
Management and TPG Capital

Martha Sabol addressed the Board, representing Apollo and TPG. She went on to ask for initial
consideration for the acquisition of Harrah’s Joliet and Harrah’s Metropolis. She went on to
state that there is a brief presentation summarizing the transaction and an introduction both to
Apollo and TPG and some of their key principals.
Jonathan Hawkyard – CFO – Harrah’s

11

 Jonathan addressed the Board, chief financial officer of Harrah’s Entertainment. He introduced
his colleagues joining here today. Member Gardner asked if a list was being supplied as to the
names of the presenters. Jonathan agreed to produce one.
Frank Schreck – outside regulatory counsel to Texas Pacific Group and Apollo
Jeff Benjamin – partner with Apollo Management
Michael Kohen – vice president and associate general counsel to Harrah’s
Susanne Kemp – Texas Pacific Group
Kelvin Davis – partner with Texas Pacific Group
Joe Domenico – regional president and general manager of Harrah’s Joliet
Michael Crider – general manager at Harrah’s Metropolis
Jonathan addressed the Board, and he stated that he was here to represent Harrah’s and the
management team and employees. He also stated that they are very excited about the
transaction. Harrah’s has been working with Apollo and Texas Pacific Group for about 8
months. Harrah’s is viewing this as a change in ownership of the company and not in the
strategic direction or management of the business. Gary Loveman, Michael Kohen, Jonathan
and senior operators are committed to staying with the company to continue in its growth. The
code of commitment which is the commitment to guests, employees and the communities in
which operation is conducted remains central to all that is done in the company.
Chairman Jaffe asked if he can inquire about one thing: the Loveman group will still be active in
this organization, and the Chairman then asked what the group’s role will be after the
acquisition. Jonathan replies that Gary Loveman will remain chief executive and chairman of
the Board, Jonathan will remain chief financial officer, Carlos Tolosa, division president for the
eastern division along with Mike and Joe with oversight of these businesses. The Chairman
asked if that is in writing. Jonathan gave his perspective on it. There is no management
arrangement in place. It is certainly the intention to do so. Apollo and Texas Pacific are
financial sponsors and not managers of casino enterprises. The quality of our management team
and our track record was what attracted them to our business. The Chairman stated that he
would be very anxious as to what arrangements are made with them. Member Gardner asked if
there was an employment contract with Harrah’s. Jonathan stated that there was one in place and
will be honored. There will come a time when an agreement will be in place. Jonathan stated
that senior managers set strategic direction of the company, the ones that run the company are
the supervisors and managers at the front desks, the slot department, valet, they are the ones that
make a difference to the guests day in and day out.
These firms are blue chip firms in what they do. They have a very long and distinguished track
record as investors and as stewards in companies.
Kelvin Davis – Texas Pacific – Mr. Davis addressed the Board next. He addressed the
company’s interest, having stated that they plan on the continuation of the present leadership.
There will be employment agreements in place. He stated that he is a senior partner. An
introduction was given as to the structure; often referred to as the private equity industry.
Investors working on behalf of their limited partners. Limited partners are predominately public
and private pension funds and other institutional investors around American and overseas. On

12

 their behalf the company acts as stewards of their capital in search of finding investment value
can be built on over the long term. TPG is now investing its fifth fund. Apollo is investing its
sixth fund. TPG raised its first fund in 1993 and over 80% of investors in that fund are presently
with us. We find investments around the world that are worthy of the capital and produce
returns over a period of time that are attractive. We also invest our own money as well. TPG
was founded in 1992, the first significant transaction was the re-capitalization of Continental
Airlines out of bankruptcy. Now our operations span both in North America as well as Europe
and Asia where we have been for over 10 years. We employ 125 investment professionals
across the world. Included in these investments has been significant regulatory oversight. We
have invested in insurance companies, financial institutions, satellite providers, and radio and
media properties.
Jeff Benjamin – partner with Apollo Management
Apollo and TPG are very similar firms. Apollo was founded in 1990. Apollo’s offices in New
York, London and Los Angeles; having less of a global scope than TPG with focus more on the
United States and Western Europe. Apollo has invested in a number of highly regulated
industries, with experience in lodging and leisure.
In terms of specific regulatory activities of gaming, Jeff was on the Board of the Mandalay
Resort Group for about 1 ½ years, prior to Mandalay’s sale to MGM. Some of the companies
that Apollo has owned: Samsonite, GNC, Serious Satellite Radio, Linens and Things, just
examples of the companies.
Vail is one specific investment. Apollo took control of Vail in 1992 when the company was in
the middle of a financial restructuring. When Apollo took control of Vail it was doing less than
$40M a year cash flow. Over the 14 year period, we did a number of things, we made many
investments. They grew cash flow from $40M to $175M over the period.
Kelvin Davis –
Continental Airlines – one example of an extremely capital intensive business investing of
capital and the commitment to the customer; value proposition that Continental offered helped
resuscitate that airline after a notorious bankruptcy in the early 1990’s. When TPG took control
of the business we invested substantial capital in the business and today Continental is obviously
thriving as a U.S. airline. Member Gardner corrected Davis when he referred to the companies as
TPG and Colony. Davis corrected himself and stated TPG and Apollo.
The Chairman asked a question about the diagram; 100% voting interest no economic interest,
then he sees to the left and it says non-voting economic interest. Aren’t they the same. Davis
referred it to Frank Schreck.
Frank Schreck – outside regulatory counsel for TPG and Apollo, coordinating licensing
processes throughout the country and other parts of the world. We had met with staff
approximately a month ago. The structure was created by myself and I have been practicing
gaming law for the past 30 years. Prior to that was a member of the Nevada Gaming

13

 Commission. The structure that has been created by Schreck has been approved in Iowa,
Mississippi, New Jersey and Indiana. It has not been approved in Illinois, Missouri or Louisiana.
The whole idea of the structure (see attached) is that at the end of the transaction there will be a
surviving entity as a 1934 Act reporting company, filing 10-K’s, 10-Q’s, etc. There will be
oversight from the federal government over this entity as there is today. There will be no
publicly traded stock.
Harrah’s operating company, owns all the operating companies including the two operating
companies in Illinois. From Harrrah’s Entertainment down, there is no change, only change in
ownership; which are limited partners through these funds and the Board of Directors of
Harrah’s Entertainment in which the Chairman will still be Loveman and the other members will
be representatives of the two funds.
The structure itself was designed specifically for Nevada but also works uniquely in the other
jurisdictions. The structure creates the issuance of two classes of shares. There is class “A”
which is the non-voting shares which contain all of the economics of the transaction. Those
shares go into the funds. The diagram that is attached contains six big boxes, those are just
holding companies that were created for the purpose of this transaction. Above them you will
see the names of the funds that are actually the members of the owners of the shares that will be
in those big boxes. Those funds were made up as we already discussed of limited partners that
are pension funds, profit sharing funds, institutions, all large recognizable investors. None of the
limited partners in an aggregated amount will have more than 5% of the economics of this
transaction.
Member Gardner asked if Mr. Schreck could be a little more clear. The six boxes will have more
than 5%. Schreck stated yes. Doesn’t each box contain groups. Schreck stated yes.
Some of the limited partners want to get a larger investment in some of the investments that the
funds actually make and so the co-investor boxes allow those limited partners to increase their
investment in this particular transaction through these co-investments. All are large well-known
institutions. When this is all done the co-investor decisions have not been made yet; the entities
will be transparent and be presented to the Gaming Board staff for review. They will see
everyone that is involved in this as a limited partner. There won’t be anybody that staff will not
be able to look at and see. Certainly the IGB will have regulatory jurisdiction over them.
Member Gardner asked if Harvard has an interest in TPG they could also have up to 5% through
a co-investment. Schreck stated that none of the limited partners will have an aggregated amount
over 5%. Member Gardner asked “no single entity will own as much as 5%?” Schreck stated
that is correct.
Schreck went on to explain the chart. The whole purpose of this structure is not only to see the
people that are going to vote Harrah’s shares and license them but they are going to want to
evaluate the people that control the funds. The people that are coming forward for licensing are
actually the people that actually control the funds. You will see that in the organizational
structure applications already filed. The individuals that control those funds are individuals who
will be in front of the Gaming Board for licensing. The six main principals will have all the

14

 voting shares and be licensed. They control Harrah’s through their voting rights, many of them
will be on the Board of Directors for Harrah’s but also in their other hat control the funds.
Member Gardner stated that the six principals have a significant economic interest in those
funds. Schreck stated most certainly they do. Member Gardner went on to say that is what is so
confusing about this chart. The chart implies that the six people over at Harrah’s who have all
the voting interest have no economic interest. Schreck stated they have no economic interest
through Hamlet, they do through the funds. Member Gardner stated that they are general
partners in the funds and they have a significant economic interest. Schreck agreed. They will
be the people in front of you for licensing.
Schreck referred to the handout on page 13. Comparing publicly traded entities with the private
equity structure. Schreck stated that the private entity structure from a regulatory stand point is
far better than a public company structures that the Board approved. Schreck stated that public
shareholders that have less than 5% that are not licensed with limited partners that have less than
5% which you are now going to license. The public shareholder is someone you don’t know
who they are, where are their source of funds, they have a direct economic interest in the entity,
they have a piece of common stock. They have voting rights. If they are industrious enough, a
group of them can actually influence management. These are people that you haven’t licensed.
On the other side you have the private equity structure. The limited partners are transparent, you
will be given a list of who they are, they will be recognizable. Some are the state teachers
retirement funds, public employee retirement funds, they will be easily recognizable. Also you
will know their source of funds. You will know the money is the cleanest money you could ever
get into the gaming industry. These limited partners and by the fact there are management
agreements, have no say whatsoever in the investment. They have no say, influence or control
over management. They don’t have a direct or indirect ownership in any of the assets. They
only have an interest in the revenue stream that will go into the funds if the investment proves to
be a success. From a regulatory standpoint, public shareholders will sell out when the economy
starts getting bad, private equity on the other hand the only value they get is the appreciation of
assets. If there is an economic down turn in the economy, they are not selling out; they can’t.
They have to increase the value of that asset for them to ever make any money.
Applications have been submitted by the end of last week. Also submitted were executive
summaries. Five summaries in all. One of the transaction itself, capital and financial structure,
organizational structure and one for each of the funds.
Member Gardner asked if the limited partners in each of the funds, have any ability to replace the
general partners. Schreck stated “absolutely”. Member Gardner went on to state their only
recourse if they are not happy with what’s going on is to not invest in the next fund. Secondly,
Member Gardner asked if there is no ability for them to withdraw? Schreck stated, in very rare
instances. Schreck stated in closing, the Board and staff’s time is appreciated.
Chairman asked about the agreement with Loveman’s group? Schreck stated that agreements
between senior executive team and the sponsors that were put in place prior to closing, subject to
the Board’s review. Formal employment arrangements will be in place that will supercede those
that are already existing. The Chairman stated that the Board is not in agreement that the

15

 investigation will be done by the date that TPG and Apollo agreed to. Schreck stated that is
understood.
Member Gardner stated that your anticipation is individual contracts with individual employees
is that correct, not a contract with a management group that is comprised of Loveman and others
and that they will run it, you are going to hire these people directly right? It was stated that the
way it works, they are buying the company as it exists today, in the diagram the corporate entity
and the operating company are remaining exactly the same. The firm will put in place the
individual senior executive employment relationships prior to closing. That is the extent of it,
that will be left to the management team as will be the running of the business day to day.
•

Casino Queen – Third Amendment to Credit Agreement

Jeff Watson addressed the Board, General Counsel of Casino Queen along with Bob Barros,
chief financial officer. Seeking initial consideration of the third amendment to the credit
agreement with Wells Fargo Bank.
Member Gardner welcomed the men. He stated that this submission caught him by great
surprise in that it appears to involve a significant increase in the cost of the expansion. Over the
next thirty days he presumes that they will be working closely with the Gaming Board staff to
clarify or correct how that came to be; what the changes are, who the extra money is going to?
All those things that were looked at during the initial approval. Looking again maybe at a 25%30% increase in the size of the project. Jeff Watson agreed that they would be able to do that.
Also, please notice that they have worked with the Gaming Board staff step by step during the
entire process. The amendment is not different than on-going conversations with senior staff; we
will supply information to Doug Bybee.
Member Gardner noted that every month a nice little package comes from Casino Queen
reporting the progress of the construction. Jeff Watson stated that construction is going
according to schedule, the issues with the credit agreement really haven’t effected the
construction.
•

Empress Casino – Request for Approval to Purchase Surveillance Equipment and
Request to Waive the Two-Meeting Rule

Richard Vitale addressed the Board; he is in-house counsel for Argosy Gaming. Asking for
consideration for the above. The cost will be in excess of $1M.
Chairman Jaffe stated that as he understands there is no rush in regard to waiving the twomeeting rule.
Mike Fries stated that the staff continues to work with Mr. Baldacci on this as well as counsel.
We are recommending that the Board takes this up for final action in March.
b.

Items for Final Action -

16

 •

Empress Casino – Request for Approval to Purchase Surveillance Equipment (If TwoMeeting Rule Waived)
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board deny Empress Casino’s request to waive the two-meeting
rule. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Grand Victoria Casino/MGM Mirage – Request for IGB Approval of Nevada Landing
Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that, pursuant to section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, to approve
MGM’s request for IGB approval of Nevada Landing Partnership as a
Subsidiary Guarantor of the aggregate principal amount of $750 Million of
MGM’s 7.625% Senior Notes due in 2017, which were sold by MGM on
December 13, 2006 through private placement and delegate to the Administrator
final approval of such transaction. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Harrah’s Metropolis – Betty J. Harrod, Senior Internal Auditor – Level One

Member Gardner asked about Ms. Harrod’s involvement in both properties. She stated that most
of her time would be spent in Metropolis.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve Betty J. Harrod, Level One Occupational Licensee
in the position of Senior Internal Auditor at Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and as
a staff auditor for Harrah’s Joliet Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Harrah’s Joliet – Patrick A. Macfarlane, Staff Auditor – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that the Board approve Patrick A. Macfarlane, Level One Occupational
Licensee in the position of Staff Auditor at Harrah’s Joliet Casino. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

•

Harrah’s Joliet – Amy Mansker, Senior Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Amy Mansker, Level One Occupational Licensee
in the position of Senior Internal Auditor at Harrah’s Joliet Casino. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

17

 •

Par-A-Dice Casino – Rita Rogene Paullo, Director of Table Games – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Rita Rogene Paullo, Level One Occupational
Licensee in the position of Director of Table Games at Par-A-Dice Casino.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

• Emerald Casino – License Renewal - SEE ATTACHED RESOLUTION
•

Emerald Casino – License Renewal
RESOLUTION

Member Winkler offered the following resolution:
WHEREAS, Emerald Casino, Inc. (Emerald), formerly known as HP Inc., was initially
granted an owner’s license to conduct riverboat gaming cruises departing from East Dubuque,
Illinois on July 9, 1992. The Illinois Gaming Board (Gaming Board) renewed Emerald’s license
in July 1995 and again in July 1996.
WHEREAS, on June 24, 1997, the Gaming Board voted not to renew Emerald’s license
and issued a Notice Of Denial on June 27, 1997. On July 2, 1997 Emerald requested an
administrative hearing regarding the denial of its renewal application, and an Administrative
Law Judge was appointed.
WHEREAS, on July 29, 1997, Emerald ceased all gaming operations.
WHEREAS, on May 5, 1999, the Administrative Law Judge recommended that the
Gaming Board deny Emerald’s application for renewal of its license.
WHEREAS, before the Gaming Board took final action on the denial of Emerald’s 1997
renewal application, the Illinois General Assembly amended the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act
(the Act) by adding Section 11.2, which became effective June 25, 1999.
WHEREAS, on September 7, 1999, the Gaming Board declared the pending license
renewal proceeding moot in light of the addition of Section 11.2 to the Act, and advised Emerald
that it could file a new Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License.
WHEREAS, Emerald filed with the Illinois Gaming Board an Application For Renewal
Of Owner’s License on September 24, 1999 (Renewal Application), and indicated its intention to
relocate its license to the Village of Rosemont (Rosemont).

18

 WHEREAS, on January 30, 2001, the Gaming Board voted to deny Emerald’s
Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License and to issue a written notice of denial. On March
6, 2001, the Gaming Board issued a Notice Of Denial Of Emerald’s Application For Renewal Of
Owner’s License, commencing Gaming Board Matter No. 01-01 (Renewal Proceeding). On
March 13, 2001, Emerald filed a verified Request For Hearing in the Renewal Proceeding.
WHEREAS, on January 30, 2001, the Gaming Board voted to issue a disciplinary
complaint against Emerald seeking the revocation of its license. On March 6, 2001, the Gaming
Board issued a five-count Complaint For Disciplinary Action seeking revocation of Emerald’s
license, commencing Gaming Board Matter No. DC-01-05 (Revocation Proceeding). On March
26, 2001, Emerald filed a Verified Answer to the Complaint in the Revocation Proceeding.
WHEREAS, on May 21, 2001, Emerald filed a Complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook
County in which it alleged that Section 11.2 of the Act imposed on the Gaming Board a
mandatory duty to grant Emerald’s September 24, 1999 application for renewal of its license and
to approve relocation of its operations to Rosemont. The Circuit Court granted the Gaming
Board’s motion for summary judgment and denied Emerald’s motion for summary judgment.
On December 30, 2003, the Appellate Court issued its decision in Emerald Casino, Inc. v.
Illinois Gaming Board, 346 Ill. App. 3d 18 (1st Dist. 2003) (Emerald I). Emerald I reversed the
Circuit Court, concluded that the Gaming Board’s interpretation of Section 11.2 of the Act was
reasonable but incorrect, and held that Section 11.2 of the Act imposed on the Gaming Board a
mandatory duty to grant Emerald’s September 24, 1999 Application For Renewal Of Owner’s
License. Emerald I also noted that the Gaming Board had begun proceedings to revoke
Emerald’s license in 2001, held that, in passing Section 11.2, “the legislature did not intend to
tinker with the Board's authority to revoke Emerald's license,” and further held that “[n]othing in
section 11.2(a) prevents the Board from moving to revoke Emerald's license.”
WHEREAS, on June 9, 2005, the Circuit Court, on remand from Emerald I, directed the
Gaming Board to grant Emerald’s September 24, 1999 Application For Renewal Of Owner’s
License.
WHEREAS, on June 29, 2005 the Gaming Board adopted a Resolution by which it
granted “Emerald’s September 24, 1999 Application For Renewal Of Owner’s License, as of
September 24, 1999, for a period of four (4) years . . . .”
WHEREAS, on September 22, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court issued its decision in
Crusius v. Illinois Gaming Board, 216 Ill. 2d 315 (2005) (Crusius). Crusius rejected a
constitutional challenge to Section 11.2 of the Act, as interpreted in Emerald I. Crusius further
held:
[Section 11.2] did not diminish the regulatory authority of the Board in any way. .
. . If any riverboat gambling licensee, including Emerald, fails to comply with the
Act’s requirements, the Board has the authority to investigate and take appropriate
disciplinary action. . . . The Act’s license revocation provision still applies to
Emerald with full force . . . , and revocation proceedings have, in fact, been
initiated against it. Thus, regardless of Emerald’s eligibility for license renewal

19

 and relocation under section 11.2(a), if Emerald has failed to comply with the
requirements of the Act, it could lose its riverboat gambling license in accordance
with the Act’s provisions, as is the case with any other licensee.
WHEREAS, on December 20, 2005 the Gaming Board unanimously issued a final
administrative order in the Revocation Proceeding revoking Emerald’s license (Revocation
Order). On January 18, 2006, Emerald filed a petition pursuant to Section 17.1 of the Act for
administrative review of the Revocation Order in the Appellate Court, pending as Case No. 4-060051 (Revocation Appeal).
WHEREAS, on June 13, 2006 the Appellate Court held in Emerald Casino, Inc. v.
Illinois Gaming Board, 366 Ill. App. 3d 113 (1st Dist. 2006) (Emerald II) that the mandate in
Emerald I required the Gaming Board to renew Emerald’s license prospectively for a 4 year
period, subject to revocation proceedings.
WHEREAS, on January 29, 2007 the circuit court, pursuant to the Appellate Court’s
mandate in Emerald II, entered an order stating: “Within 30 days of this Order, the Illinois
Gaming Board shall issue Emerald’s license for renewal and relocation, effective as of the date
of the issuance and remaining in effect for four years, subject to revocation proceedings.”
NOW, THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED, that pursuant to the Appellate Court’s decision in Emerald II and
the Circuit Court’s January 29, 2007 order on remand, Emerald’s license is issued for renewal
and relocation, effective as of this date and remaining in effect for four years, subject to
revocation proceedings.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution does not constitute a finding or
adjudication by the Gaming Board on any matter, is not a waiver of, and is without prejudice to,
the Gaming Board’s rights or position in any other matter or proceeding, including without
limitation the Revocation Order and the Revocation Appeal.
I move that the Gaming Board adopt this resolution.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
•

Konami Gaming, Inc. – License Renewal

Member Gardner asked if there is a policy for representatives to appear. The Administrator
stated that there was no policy. Chairman Jaffe stated that they should show up. Member
Winkler suggested that the matter be deferred until the March, 2007 meeting. All agreed.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVAL & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’s & 3’s

20

 Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board approve 37 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and
149 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.

Carla Glass
David Jones
David Soria.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
●

WMS Gaming Inc.
Bill Roberts counsel for WMS Gaming Inc. addressed the Board. Stated that they accept
responsibility for WMS’s actions.
Member Gardner thanks WMS Gaming Inc for all their cooperation.
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against WMS Gaming Inc.,
based upon WMS’s Gaming Inc.’s failure to timely and promptly disclose to
the Board a deficiency in one of its electronic gaming device programs.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board impose a fine of $25,000 on
WMS Gaming Inc. Said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by role call.

PERSONNEL – no motion
ADJOURNMENT
At 4:27 p.m. Member Gardner moved to reconvene into closed session to the third floor of
the hotel. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
Respectfully submitted,

21

 Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

22

