STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 15, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.— at 160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the
State Panel; Keith Snyder, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of the State Panel; Melissa
Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel;
and staff.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 17, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the November 17, 2015, meeting. Member Washington
moved to approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice
vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-RC-12-006
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present it to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson aided by Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal's memorandum, stated that Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) Martin Kehoe issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) dismissing a petition. She then presented
and discussed the case. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board affirm the RDO
with modifications. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO with the recommended modifications.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Case No. S-CA-14-019
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Glenwood Chapter 612/Village of Glenwood

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present it to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that Charging Party filed a charge alleging that the or Respondent engaged in unfair labor practices in
violation of Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) when Respondent implemented its decision to promote three sergeants without
completing effects bargaining. She then presented and discussed the Respondent’s exceptions and response and the
Charging Party’s cross exceptions. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board
affirm the RDO with modifications to the remedy. After discussion, Member Snyder moved to accept the RDO with
the recommended modifications to the remedy. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.

Case No. S-CA-14-245
Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW, CLC/Village of Robbins (Fire
Department)

Chairman Hartnett called the case. General Counsel Nelson noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Coyle’s
RDO, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.

Case No. S-CB-16-003
Maria Zavala/Chicago Newspaper Guild, Local 34071

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present it to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that Charging Party filed an unfair labor practice charge alleging that Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson
recommended that the Board remand the Executive Director’s dismissal for further investigation. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to remand the Executive Director’s dismissal for further investigation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

5.

Case No. S-CA-16-007
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present it to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that Charging Party filed an unfair labor practice charge alleging that Respondent violated Section
10(1) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and Respondent’s response. After her presentation,
General Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.

Case No. S-CA-15-033
Tri-State Professional Firefighters Union, Local 3165, International Association of
Firefighters/Tri-State Fire Protection District

General Counsel Nelson called the case. She stated that the Charging Party and Respondent filed a Joint Motion
seeking leave for the Union to withdraw the charge that the Executive Director previously dismissed. She gave a
summary of the status of this case to the Board and recommended that the Board grant the Joint Motion. After
discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the Joint Motion. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of January, 2016.

2

 