ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
JUNE 5, 1990

Present:
William Kunkle, Chairman; Board Members:
Raymond Niepert, Robert Gibson, Jack Chamblin

J. Thomas Johnson,

Also Present:
Bob Steere, Temporary Counsel & Acting Secretary; Morton E.
Friedman, Administrator; Fred Baird, IDOR attorney; media, and the general
public.

The meeting was called to order at 10:00 a.m. by Chairman Kunkle with all Board
Members present.
Approval of the minutes of the Board's meeting of May 11, 1990 was tabled until
the Board's next meeting as they had not been distributed to the members of the
Board.
The next order of business was the review and approval of the application form
for an owner's license to conduct a riverboat gaming operation presented to the
Board by Mr. Friedman.
Mr. Friedman offered the following comments:
*
Several forms from the last draft copy submitted to the Board have
been consolidated into two forms: Form I, Applicant Disclosure Form, and Form
II, Personal Disclosure Form. The reasons for consolidation were to make the
application more concise, and to make clear that there is not a riverboat
operation and a gaming operation, but that there is a single riverboat gaming
operation for which the applicant is responsible.
*
The instructions with regard to submitting fingerprint cards were
eliminated temporarily. Specialized cards are being printed up by the FBI and
are not yet ready.
*
An authorization form required by the Internal Revenue Service has
been added to the package. It has been added for informational purposes only
since it must be signed in the presence of a Gaming Board agent.
*
Each page of the Personal Disclosure Form has a provision for being
initialed by the individual submitting the form.
*
Upon suggestion of Member Niepert, "the" was changed to "any" in a
question referring to cashless wagering plans so it is clear that the Board will
consider an applicant's plans for a cashless wagering system, but it is not yet
a decided matter by the Board as to whether or not one will be required.
*
Final versions of the financial schedules relating to the Personal
Disclosure Form have been included.
*
errors.

The only additional changes consist of correcting typographical

 Mr. Steere stated that he had no additional comments except to say that he, Mr.
Friedman and Mr. Baird were available to answer any questions which the Board
might ask.
Mr. Friedman provided the following answers to questions asked by Member
Johnson:
*
The questions regarding riverboat support facilities have been
incorporated into Form I.
*
If the Board promulgates rules subsequent to the filing of the
applications which contradict or negate a portion of the plan submitted by an
applicant, such as accessibility to disabled persons, the applicant should be
given an opportunity to conform his application to the rule. This sort of
process is needed since the Board was required to undertake the licensing
process without first having the opportunity to develop its rules.
*
Because of the statutory time constraints in the application
process, an applicant cannot be expected to propose a full operating casino in
his application. There should be some give and take between the Board and
applicants as the licensing process proceeds.
Member Johnson expressed concern about the requirement in Form I that the names
of employees be provided, since the identity of those persons might not be known
to the applicant at the time of filing, and since the Board will ultimately
require occupational licenses for persons placed in sensitive positions.
Chairman Kunkle commented that the Board would eventually need that information
in order to know which people are going to work on which riverboat, even if
those people are independently licensed. However, the Board should recognize
the fact that the identities of these people simply might not be known at this
time.
Member Johnson stated that his only concern on this issue was that by asking for
information which is not available an application could be interpreted to be
incomplete even though an applicant has done everything possible to provide
complete information, and suggested modification of the requirement to disclose
names.
Mr. Friedman suggested an alternate approach wherein the Board would use its
discretion in interpreting the completeness of the response to the question
about names of employees. If the names are known to the applicant, they should
be submitted. Since there is no occupational licensing process in place, an
applicant cannot pick and chose from a pool of licensed job candidates.
Consequently, to the extent that an applicant knows which individuals he intends
to hire, that information should be provided to the Board now so it may be
considered part of the licensing process. If an applicant does not have the
names of all its personnel, the Board should not consider that a fatal defect in
the application, but rather should consider that information at a later point
prior to granting a license. However, the ability of an applicant to provide
names of his personnel at this time may be a factor which the Board might want
to consider among competing applicants in determining which applicant is better
qualified for licensure.
Mr. Friedman also noted that completion of the application, and investigation
and approval by the Board, does not equal license. Board approval is only the
first step in the process, a tentative indication that the applicant will be
eligible for a license. Similar to the "dry run" required in New Jersey before

 licensure, a riverboat must be fully staffed and operational, with all of its
operations and procedures audited, before a license should issue. The applicant
must show that he can successfully and safely operate a riverboat gaming
excursion before he is licensed.
Member Johnson expressed concern about the definition of "key person" contained
in the application. In his view, the term could be interpreted to be directed
toward the applicant to the exclusion of gaming personnel. He suggested that
specifically adding the term "gaming operations manager" to the definition of
"key person" would eliminate this ambiguity.
Mr. Baird responded to Member Johnson's concerns, stating that in Form I
questions are specifically asked about the key persons of the applicant and/or
the gaming operations manager. In addition, in Form II questions are asked
about the key persons of the gaming businesses for which the individual has
worked. Consequently, the term "key person" can be viewed as a generic term
which, under the terms of each individual question, is directed toward the
applicant, the gaming operations manager, or other business entities.
Upon questioning from Member Gibson, Mr. Friedman stated that upon approval by
the Board the application forms could be distributed to applicants immediately.
Under statutory requirements the application forms must be returned to the Board
by July 1, 1990. Mr. Friedman recognized the difficulty placed on applicants to
complete these forms by that time, but stated that the Board should not
sacrifice the completeness of the application process to accommodate the need
for speed.
Mr. Friedman informed the Board that the application forms had been developed
using the Illinois Racing Board application forms as a model, and that
additional material had been developed from the forms used in Nevada and New
Jersey, and from the Riverboat Gambling Act. Each and every question contained
in the forms could be tracked as to source and origin.
Upon motion, the application forms were unanimously approved by the Board.
Chairman Kunkle instructed Mr. Friedman to distribute to interested applicants
and the press.
Member Johnson asked whether the questions contained in the forms provided an
applicant with sufficient opportunity to describe his tourism development plan,
as tourism development was one of the reasons the legislature adopted the
Riverboat Gambling Act. Mr. Friedman stated that while there is no specific
question directed to that issue, Question 29 of Form I does ask about the effect
on economically depressed areas which an applicant's proposed plan would have,
and that information about a tourism development plan could be supplied in
response to that question. In addition, applicants are not prohibited from
submitting additional information not specifically requested. Chairman Kunkle
noted that although not legally required, the Board may have some sort of
hearing as part of the licensing process and at that time an applicant could
present all relevant information to support his application.
Member Johnson asked whether the applications submitted by applicants would be
public records open to the public under the Freedom of Information Act. Mr.
Friedman asked to defer response to that question as the issue had not been
fully researched at this time.
Next, Chairman Kunkle recognized Representative McPike.
following comments:

Rep. McPike offered the

 *
In his opinion, the July 1st due date will not be changed by the
legislature.
*
In light of the resolution passed by the Board at its last meeting
concerning the imposition of a $500 gambling limit, which had been erroneously
left off the original bill by his staff, the legislature will not place a limit
on gambling this session, and probably never will impose a limit.
*
It was the understanding of the legislators who supported the bill
in the House that at least one license would go to the Quad Cities, one license
would go above Lock and Dam 26 in Alton, and one license would go below Lock and
Dam 26 in East St. Louis.
Chairman Kunkle thanked Rep. McPike, and commented that the Board is operating
on the premise that it must follow the legislature's intent as set forth in the
Riverboat Gambling Act.
Member Johnson commented on one of the points raised by Rep. McPike, stating
that the resolution passed by the Board was not that a $500 limit should not be
passed by the legislature, but rather that if the legislature considered a $500
gambling limit it should also consider revising the 20% gambling tax rate.
Testimony received by the Board indicated that if both a $500 dollar gambling
limit and a 20% gambling tax were imposed riverboat gambling in Illinois could
be economically unfeasible.
Rep. McPike responded that in his opinion the legislature will neither trade off
the 20% tax nor impose a $500 gambling limit.
Next, Mr. Friedman responded to questions from Members Johnson and Gibson about
the licensing process:
*
Under the Act, if an applicant does not apply by July 1, 1990 he
cannot be considered for a license effective January 1, 1991. An applicant
could apply after July 1, 1990 for a license effective January 1, 1992.
*
If only 3 license applications are received by July 1st, then the
Board could only consider 3 license applications. The Board could reject all 3
applications if they are inadequate.
Next, the Cairo Chamber of Commerce and several Cairo citizens made a
presentation to the Board in support of riverboat gambling in the City of Cairo.
Next, upon a question from the general public, Chairman Kunkle commented that in
the event less than 5 licenses were issued by the Board this year, under his
interpretation of the Act the Board could license the unlicensed slots the
following year, but applicants would have to file for those slots in the
following year. Counsel agreed with this statement.
Next, Chairman Kunkle recognized Representative Phelps. Rep. Phelps posed a
question to the Board concerning the impact of multiple license applications for
one geographical area. Chairman Kunkle responded stating that an implicit goal
of the Act was to draw from the widest possible tourist and gambling base in
order to promote economic development and tourism throughout Illinois. However,
the distribution of riverboat gambling licenses throughout Illinois will be
partly in the hands of the applicants, for they must make the decision as to the
location of their proposed riverboat gambling operation. Member Johnson

 commented that applicants are going to be applying for locations where they
think they can get a return of their investment, and as much as the Board might
to draw specific guidelines for license distribution, the Board simply may not
get applications for certain areas of Illinois.
The final order of business was scheduling of the next meeting of the Board.
Mr. Friedman advised the Board that since he and his staff would be receiving
and reviewing license applications during the following weeks, he would prefer
that no meeting be scheduled at this time. Rather, he proposed scheduling a
meeting when he is ready to report to the Board. This proposal was accepted by
the Board.
There being no further business, upon unanimous motion the meeting was
adjourned.

Robert D. Steere
Temporary Counsel and Acting Secretary
Illinois Gaming Board

 