MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
November 3, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
On Thursday, November 3, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:01 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas Dunn.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of October 7, 2016. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT/COMMENTS:
Schedule of 2017 Board dates will be on the IGB website once the dates are agreed upon.
ADMINISTRATOR'S REPORT:
Meeting with the Casino Gaming Association referencing internal controls and data system.
Initial Consideration



(No Board Action / No Vote Required)

Casino Queen, Inc. – Request to Refinance Current Credit Facility
Penn National Gaming – Refinancing

Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Boyd Central Region, Inc. – Boyd Gaming Corporation – Par-A-Dice Hotel
and Casino – William Irving Wright – Sr. Vice President of Operations –
Key Person
Member Alejandre moved that the Board find William Irving Wright suitable as a Key Person
of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino, in his position as Senior
Vice President of Operations for Boyd Central Region, Inc., a subsidiary of Boyd Gaming
Corporation. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Hollywood Casino Aurora – Jack M. Grumieaux – Security Manager – Level 1
License
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Jack M. Grumieaux as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Security Manager for HC Aurora, LLC, d/b/a

 Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
unanimously by roll call vote.


The motion passed

Penn National Gaming – Alton Gaming Company, HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet, Hollywood Casino Aurora – Albert Britton – Sr.
Vice President – Regional Operations – Key Person

Member Robinson moved that the Board find Albert Britton suitable as a Key Person of Alton
Gaming Company, HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Aurora, in his position as Senior Vice President of Regional Operations for
Penn National Gaming, Inc. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.


Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – ANP Trusts #22, 24,
28 and 30 – Transfers for Estate Planning Purposes

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the proposed transfer for estate planning
purposes of the indirect interests held by ANP James Trusts #22, 24, 28 and 30 in Illinois RBG,
LLC, with no change in beneficiaries, into the following single primary beneficiary trusts: #22F
– William, Andrew, and Tai; #24G – William, Andrew, and Tai; #28G – William, Andrew, and
Tai; and #30G – William, Andrew, and Tai. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal
Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Supplier's License renewal
application of Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals and Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
Member Dunn moved to find suitable and approve 51 Level 2 occupational licenses, and 101
Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to:
1. Rosemary Nicole McDaniel
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests for Hearing & Requests to Reapply
Member Dunn moved to deny the requests for hearing submitted by Jonathan N. Jones; Terry
L. Linton, Jr.; Timothy T. Guilford; Mike Bounsinh; and Bradley Antos, as the requests do

2

 not establish a prima facie case for a hearing or otherwise comply with the requirements of Rule
405. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Bally Gaming,
Inc., fining the company $10,000 for shipping game media within electronic gaming devices to
Rivers Casino, rather than separately to the IGB Docksite, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that time frame.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Eugene Clark
fining him $250 for failing to prohibit an underage individual from entering the Casino Queen's
gaming area, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Douglas Lee
Wedeking, Sr. fining him $500.00 for failing to prohibit an underage individual from entering
the Casino Queen's gaming area, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member
Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Casino Queen,
Inc. fining the company $5,000.00 for not properly monitoring patrons and failing to prevent
underage individuals from entering its gaming area, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that
time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational license of Christopher August Schneider
for engaging in theft, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,
unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:17 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 