MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
August 25, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The August 24, 2005 Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was recessed
to Thursday, August 25, 2005 in the Casino Queen Ballroom located at 200 S. Front Street,
East St. Louis, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe and Member Charles
Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore, and James Sullivan.
Chairman Jaffe reconvened the August 24, 2005 Regular Meeting at 9:05 A.M. in the
conference room of the Casino Queen Hotel .
The Board convened its Open Session at 12:10 P.M.
Member Gardner moved to reconvene into Open session. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board is delighted to be in East St. Louis.
Board Members Comments
Member Gardner thanked Casino Queen for the tour and its hospitality.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the agenda items regarding Argosy Gaming,
Penn National and Hollywood Casino would be tabled to a future meeting.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on the items that were discussed during
Closed session.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a closed session meeting on
Tuesday, August 30, 2005 at 9:00 a.m. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the
September 19th Regular Board meeting would be rescheduled. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that a public notice would be issued once the date for the September Regular
Board meeting is determined. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board would
also be conducting a number of meetings to discuss the independence Bill and legislation
concerning the Gaming Board.

 Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is currently working on the FY 06 budget
projections in terms of the revenue anticipated from the various casinos, as well as the budget
expenditures in terms of casino operations.
Public Commentary
Mark Anerson was present to address his concerns regarding his son, who is a compulsive
gambler and enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. Anerson urged the Board to design
a system that would ensure that those who are on the self-exclusion list would not be allowed
in the casinos.
Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction was
present to discuss the Self-Exclusion Program. Ms. Bedell thanked the Board for issuing
Empress Casino a fine for failing to flag patrons who are on the Self-Exclusion list. Ms.
Bedell encouraged the Board to continue to monitor the casino to ensure that self-excluded
patrons are not allowed in the casinos.
Ms. Bedell addressed her concerns regarding credit that the casinos issue to patrons, and
urged the Board to eliminate credit at casinos.
Ms. Bedell expressed her concerns regarding the change of Gaming Board meeting locations
and dates. Chairman Jaffe stated that anytime the Board renews a license the Board wants to
visit the community to see the impact that the licensee has on the community. Chairman
Jaffe stated that by visiting the community, it gives the people in the community, who may
not be able to attend meetings in the downtown Chicago area, the opportunity to address the
Board with any comments or suggestions that they may have regarding the licensee.
Chairman Jaffe stated that there were no other locations for the Board to conduct its meeting
in East St. Louis other than the Casino Queen Hotel.
James Gray, President/Chairman, Alton Branch of NAACP, was present to address his
concerns regarding the lack of minorities in upper level management positions at Argosy
Casino. Mr. Gray stated that he would like for Penn National to continue Argosy’s
commitment to minorities if the Board approves the acquisition.
Member Gardner discussed the Board’s Self-Exclusion Program. Member Gardner stated
that Mr. Arneson is correct in the fact that the casinos do not have a system for catching selfexcluded patrons at the entrance of the casinos, however, if the patrons try to cash a check,
obtain credit, or cash a jackpot they would be identified and evicted from the casino.
Owner Licensee Items
Mandalay Bay – MGM Proposed Financing - Cid Froelich and Paul Jenson were present on
behalf of Mandalay Bay to request final approval for proposed financing.
2

 Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve MGM Mirage’s Proposed Financing and delegate to the Administrator,
under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of the
appropriate documents.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the board approve the 4th Amended and Restated
Loan Agreement dated as of November 22, 2004 among MGM MIRAGE, MGM Grand
Detroit, LLC, Bank of America, N.A. and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Nevada
Landing Partnership as a subsidiary guarantor under all existing indebtedness of MGM
MIRAGE, Mandalay Resort Group and Mirage Resorts Incorporated, including but not
limited to the indebtedness described in the above Loan Agreement and MGM's $500
million 6.625% Senior Notes due in 2015. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Penn National – Request to Purchase Argosy Gaming – Key Person – Kevin Desanctis, Chief
Operating Officer of Penn Gaming, and Cid Froelich were present on behalf of Penn
National. Mr. Froelich requested that one of the Board members, particularly Member
Gardner since he has background in financing, participate with Staff in a conference call with
Penn National to address any questions and concerns to shorten the process of the
acquisition.
Mr. Desanctis stressed how important it is for Penn National to come to a conclusion on the
transaction. Mr. Desanctis stated that he recognizes that the Board has very serious issues
that it has to consider. Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National would fully cooperate with
the Board in order to expedite the process.
Casino Queen – License Renewal; Stock Ownership Pledge – Tom Monahagn, General
Manager of Casino Queen and Jeff Watson, General Counsel, were present on behalf of
Casino Queen to request license renewal.
The former Mayor of East St. Louis and other public officials were present on behalf of
Casino Queen to express their support of its license renewal.
Member Gardner encouraged the City of East St. Louis to utilize its riverfront and make it an
asset to the City of East St. Louis.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve the renewal of the Owner's License of Casino Queen, Inc. for a term of
4 years commencing retroactively to July 2005. Member Winkler moved that the Board
impose the following conditions:
1. Within 60 days, Casino Queen shall provide a comprehensive social investment plan
that addresses the improvement of education in East St. Louis and the beautification of
property surrounding the casino and the promotion of diversity in the work place,

3

 including ethnic, racial and gender diversity, especially at their senior management
level.
2. That Casino Queen report to the Illinois Gaming Board on a quarterly basis on the
progress towards these objectives until further notice.
Further, the Board designates and approves the following positions and persons as Key
Persons of the licensee:
1. President;
2. Directors of the Board;
3. Charles W. Bidwill, III;
4. Michael J. Gaughan;
5. Patrick B. Kenny;
6. William J. Koman, Sr.;
7. William J. Koman, Jr.;
8. James G. Koman;
9. George S. Lalich;
10. Timothy J. Rand; and
11. Frank Toti.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice.
Occupational Licenses Approvals – Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 32 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 117 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation (Par-A-Dice) – Self –Exclusion Program- Complaint &
Settlement
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation
(Par-A-Dice), an Owner Licensee, based on its:
(1) failure to download updated lists of self-exclusion program enrollees from the
Board;
(2) failure to update the patron tracking system to reflect the self-exclusion
program status of persons appearing in the data base file;
4

 (3) failure to maintain a system designed to detect persons on the self-exclusion
program list;
(4) failure to update the self-exclusion program list in order to prohibit all check
cashing and credit issuance;
(5) failure to update other financial eligibility data bases;
(6) failure to maintain the self-exclusion program list to be flagged on all
mailings, marketing, or promotional data bases;
(7) allowing the cashing of checks for patrons on the self-exclusion program list;
(8) allowing the issuance of comps to patrons on the self exclusion program list;
(9) allowing the changing of the patron tracking system status of a particular
patron from “evicted” to “active”; and
(10) failure to provide information to security regarding self exclusion program
enrollees.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board fine Par-A-Dice $200,000. The
aforementioned action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board accept the proposed settlement
agreement between the Board and Par-A-Dice and delegate the authority to the Interim
Administrator to execute such agreement upon payment of the $200,000. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
•

Walter Boyd, Porter

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Walter Boyd, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, the
Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to the
January 31, 2005 certification by the Illinois Department of Public Aid that Mr. Boyd
was over 30 days delinquent on the payment of child support.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Mr. Boyd’s Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Winkler seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 •

Terence Stith, Vessel captain

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Terence Stith, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to his plea of guilty to felony vote fraud on or about
March 22, 2005.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Mr. Stith’s Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Personnel
Member Moore moved that the Board deny the request of Agent Mark Tomany for a
waiver of Section 7 of the Illinois Gaming Board Code of Conduct. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 1:35 P.M. Member Moore moved that the Board reconvene to Closed session. Member
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned Closed session at 2:20 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

6

 