MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
April 13 and 14, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
METROPOLIS, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, April 13, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room at the Harrah’s Metropolis Hotel in Metropolis, Illinois.
On Monday, April 13, 2009 at approximately 3:00 p.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and
Jim Sullivan. At 3:11 p.m. on Monday, April 13, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. At 4:20 p.m. the Board and staff went into Open session for a tour of the casino. Board
and staff went back into Closed session at 5:10 p.m. and recessed at 5:11 p.m. until 9:00 a.m. on
April 14, 2009.
Four of the Board Members dined together at the Harrah’s Metropolis Steak House in the
evening of April 13, 2009. No Board business was discussed and no Board action was taken.
On Tuesday, April 14, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 9:05 a.m. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 9:25 a.m. The Board went into open
session at 9:40 a.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 24 & 25, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 25, 2009. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board was the first Board to visit Harrah’s Metropolis. The
Chairman stated that the Board and staff were very impressed with the Metropolis facility and
the staff. Member Gardner agreed and stated that the customer service is tremendous. Member
Winkler stated that he also was impressed with the staff and the facilities. Member Moore
expressed his thoughts and commented how everyone seems to enjoy doing their job and serves
the public well. Member Sullivan also commented on the service and staff.
Member Moore commented on the Job Opportunity Fair at Navy Pier. He stated that it was a
wonderful event and commended the General Managers for the effort that was put forth in the
event for supplier diversity.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski echoed the comments of the Board Members for a job well done at
Harrah’s Metropolis. The Administrator introduced Mark Fuesting, the docksite supervisor and
also extended his appreciation for a job well done.
The Administrator also announced that he and staff were at the Empress Casino in Joliet, Illinois.
He commended General Manager, Frank Quigley for working with staff and the community
during these times. The Administrator also announced that our May Regular Board meeting will
be taking place at Jumer’s Casino Rock Island in Rock Island, Illinois and the July Regular
Board meeting will be held at the Casino Queen in East St. Louis, Illinois.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
●

Item for Information
●

Harrah’s Metropolis – Mike Rich, General Manager.

General Manager of Harrah’s Metropolis - Mike Rich
Good morning, Chairman Jaffe, Members of the Board, Mr. Ostrowski, Ms. Thomas, and
members of staff.
I am Mike Rich, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and
Hotel and I would like to welcome you to our property. Hopefully you had a restful night sleep
in one of our 258 rooms. As I mentioned back in January, Harrah’s spent $72M on the
construction and completion of the hotel and event center and we are excited to have you down
here to be able to see first hand the kind of commitment Harrah’s has made to this community.

2

 We are a big piece of Metropolis and proud to be one of the largest employers in the area
providing jobs for 800 employees. The relationship we have had over the years with the City of
Metropolis has been a great one.
During the recent Ice Storm the property remained open during extraordinarily tough conditions.
Almost a million people in Southern Illinois, Kentucky, Southern Indiana, and Southeastern
Missouri lost power during the January ice storm. The City of Metropolis lost power for many
days and some in the local area did not get power back on for weeks.
Although we had only emergency power in several portions of the property we were able to
remain open for the entire storm. Certainly the property would have made more money by
closing and collecting the weather related insurance. However, we made the decision to stay
open during the storm and for the first few days we were one of the only businesses open in
Massac County. For many we were the only warm place to stay and the only place to obtain a
warm meal.
We would have struggled to stay open if not for the help of local government and Mayor Billy
McDaniel. The Mayor did an outstanding job helping us work through various issues with the
local power company.
As a champion for the City of Metropolis, Mayor McDaniel helped refocus the power company’s
efforts when they began to concentrate on the sparsely populated county residents and largely
ignored the larger city population. Additionally, the mayor was one of the first to act to ask for
federal help.
Governor Quinn publicly recognized Mayor McDaniel for his hard work during the storm in a
speech he gave on the 18th of March.
The Mayor has been a great partner for business in Metropolis and a great representative of the
citizens of Metropolis.
Without further ado I would like to introduce our newly re-elected Mayor Billy McDaniel.
Mayor Billy McDaniel of Metropolis, Illinois addressed the Board. The Mayor went on to say
what a welcome part of the community Harrah’s has become. The company and staff are always
conscientious of their commitment to the City of Metropolis. The City of Metropolis has
benefitted well from the revenue of the Casino. The staff of Harrah’s Metropolis is always
number one to step up and do their share of volunteer work in our community. Through their
charitable giving, the City of Metropolis has been able to realize many great things.
Mike Rich also had his staff rise and the audience applauded them for a job well done.
●

Empress Casino – Rich Vitali

Mr. Vitali of Empress addressed the Board and staff giving them a brief update on the status of
the construction. The goal is to have the casino back up and running by the end of June, 2009.

3

 The following is a synopsis regarding the update of activity at the Empress Casino:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Removal of debris from the fire and demolition of unusable structures;
Creation of a new 240 seat buffet on deck 2 of the gaming facility;
Expansion of the new VIP kitchen to accommodate a new buffet;
Completion of the new VIP Lounge and High Limit gaming area;
Accelerated renovation of the gaming floor and games on both decks;
Repair and renovation of the pavilion connector bridge/walkway;
Creation of temporary covered access and valet (tent structures) from parking to the
gaming facility;
Landscaping of parking areas and Empress Drive; and
Construction of outdoor smoking lounges.

Mr. Vitali stated that the employees will be provided with pay and benefits for a period of ninety
(90) days from the date of the fire. Those in positions where tips are received will be paid 50%
of their declared tips, pooled tips or the IRS tip rate for that position. Empress is working with
local community and charitable groups by asking Empress employees, idled during this time to
participate in local community service projects so that as much good can come out of this
unfortunate situation as possible.
Mr. Vitali thanked the Board and staff for their assistance and cooperation during this difficult
time.
Member Gardner stated that Empress is to be commended for doing the right thing for their
employees.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 30 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 57 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.

Mario E. Campos; and
Robert Lee White.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

4

 PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

John David Vinsel - Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against John David Vinsel, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a February 20, 2009 arrest and the March 12, 2009
disposition of that arrest.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend John David Vinsel’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee
files an Answer within that time period. Member Moore seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Dafina Maliqi – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dafina Maliqi, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a February 23, 2009 arrest.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Dafina Maliqi’s occupational
license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days
from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within
that time period. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

Member Gardner stated that the Board and IGB staff again want to remind all occupational
licensees to recognize the importance of updating their personnel files. All licensees should
make a note of the importance of keeping their Human Resource department staff up to date on
any and all pertinent information.
●

Mitchell Griffin – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Mitchell Griffin, an occupational
licensee, for failing to pay for meals at the employee dining room and falsely swiping
his ID card used to track dining room meals in an attempt to make it appear that he
had paid for the meals.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Mitchell Griffin’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
role call vote.

5

 ●

Atronic Americas, LLC, a supplier licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Atronic Americas, LLC, a supplier
licensee, due to its failure to timely file with the Board its 2009 annual submission
containing the information required by section 3000.240(h)(2) of the Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board fine Atronic Americas, LLC
$2,500.00. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ
●

In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Carol M. Bulian Turney DC-08-33
Pursuant to section3000.1155 of the Adopted Rules, Member Winkler moved for the
adoption and entry of the attached Final Board Order revoking the Occupational
License held by Carol M. Bulian Turney and setting forth therein our bases for
revocation. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

Administrator Ostrowski introduced the Chicago senior staff that were present at Harrah’s
Metropolis.
At 10:05 a.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 