MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
June 22, 2006
JOLIET, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, June 22, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
at the Empress Casino Joliet, Illinois closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler and James Sullivan participated via telephone.
At 11:30 A.M. Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling
Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:44 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Approval of Minutes
Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Board meeting of May 23 and 24, 2006 and open session minutes of its Regular Meeting of
May 24, 2006. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Chairman’s Report/Comments
On July First, Two-thousand and two, the Board launched the Statewide Self-Exclusion Program
for Problem Gamblers. The Board implemented the Program as the result of a special, two-day
meeting regarding problem gambling held by this body in May, 2000.
At that special meeting, the Board heard testimony from experts in the addiction field and also
from problem gamblers. Soon afterward, the Board directed Staff to create the Self-Exclusion
Program via the Rule making process.

 The Self-Exclusion Program has evolved over time. Initially enrollment sites were limited to the
Springfield and Chicago IGB offices. Subsequently, IGB agents working at the state’s casinos
also began enrolling those who wished to be self-excluded.
In the beginning, the IGB partnered with the Outreach Foundation, which is funded in part by the
Department of Human Services to provide problem gambling awareness. Through the Outreach
Foundation, the IGB was able to gain access to those already participating in Gamblers
Anonymous. In due course several other mental health providers, who were recruited by the
Department of Human Services, joined forces with the IGB to act as enrollment sites.
Today there are a total of 23 locations in Illinois and two locations in Iowa where persons may
self-exclude. The IGB is the only state operating a Self-Exclusion Program that utilizes
enrollment sites in other jurisdictions.
Since it was implemented, a total of 3,657 persons have self-identified themselves as problem
gamblers and enrolled in the Program.
Last December 2005, the Board directed Staff to look into ways to enhance and strengthen the
IGB Self-Exclusion Program. In January 2006, staff presented information to the Board
suggesting the Board explore requiring its owner licensees to compare all patron driver’s licenses
to the Self-Exclusion database in an effort to prevent Self-Excluded Persons from gaining entry
into the casinos.
Over the last few months, Staff and the Board have met with representatives from the casino
industry, including Tom Swoik from the Illinois Casino Gaming Association and Kevin
DeSanctis, from Penn National Gaming, to discuss how to best fortify the Self-Exclusion
Program.
As a result of those meetings and other discussions I’m pleased to announce that the following
steps are being taken to strengthen the Self-Exclusion Program:
¦ Beginning August 15, 2006 all licensees will begin checking the identification of all persons
who appear 30-years-old and younger. The identification of those patrons will be electronically
compared to the IGB Self-Exclusion database. This effort will continue to be evaluated to
determine its effectiveness. At some point in the future, this Board may require that the driver’s
licenses of other age groups be checked as well.
¦ The industry has agreed to seek trespassing charges against all persons who violate the IGB
Self-Exclusion Program.
¦ The industry has agreed to increase signage indicating that any IGB self-excluded person
found at a casino will be subject to arrest.
¦ Members of the Illinois Casino Association will continue to recognize and reward those casino
employees who identify self-excluded persons attempting to enter or found on the casino floor.

2

 Association members will initiate a $250 reward for any casino employee who detects a selfexcluded person.
¦ Staff and the industry are also working to create a method within the Self-Exclusion database
that would designate those Self-Excluded persons who continue to enter the casinos to gamble.
This will help identify those problem gamblers who are having a difficult time staying out of the
casinos.
¦ Additionally, the Board has revised its Minimum Internal Control Standards to eliminate onthe-spot increases in credit. This practice, commonly known as “this trip only” credit, is no
longer available in Illinois. Some have criticized the practice of on the spot credit because it can
be abused by gamblers to further put themselves in debt in an effort to “chase losses.”
As I said just a moment ago, the Self-Exclusion Program has grown over the years and will
continue to evolve. By making these changes to the IGB’s Self-Exclusion Program and by
eliminating “this trip only” credit, the Board is showing its commitment to the issue of problem
gambling. The Board will continue to monitor this initiative.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the elimination of “this trip only” credit; changes to the
minimum internal control standards were made and are effective today. Additionally, there are
other changes that will be received by the industry on the 22nd or 23rd of June, 2006.
Administrator Ostrowski stated that he would like to echo the Chairman’s comments that these
steps show that the Board is very concerned about the Self-Exclusion Program and take this
program very seriously.

Administrator Ostrowski stated that he would like to announce some personnel changes that
were made effective June 16, 2006. The following individuals were appointed Docksite
Supervisors:
Hollywood Aurora
Grand Victoria – Elgin
Casino Queen – East St. Louis
Casino Rock Island

Timothy Rueckert, IGB/IDOR
Marshall Harris, IGB/ISP
Robert Hillman, ISP
Dan Robinson, ISP

Additionally, Joseph Stratman, IGB/IDOR, will be appointed to the position of Investigations
Supervisor – Squad Leader which was vacated when Tommie Wofford was promoted to
Deputy Administrator-Investigations.
Congratulations to these individuals.

3

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Items for Initial Consideration
Par-A-Dice – 2006 Capital Project – Hotel
Donna More stated that Par-A-Dice was seeking initial consideration for their capital
improvement project. Having been in communication with staff, now all the hotel rooms will be
updated at once, and Par-A-Dice will supply all the necessary information before the next Board
meeting.
Empress Casino – License Renewal
Jeff Pfeiffer, general manager of the Empress Casino Joliet made the attached presentation.
It is indeed a privilege to have you host this board meeting here at the Empress. It affords us the
opportunity to showcase our property to you as we make our request for initial consideration for
the renewal of our license for another four years.
Also, present here today, is Kevin DeSanctis, President and Chief Operating Officer of Penn
National Gaming and members of the Empress Management team.
Lastly, various members of the Joliet and Will County community, including Mayor Art Shultz
and John Mezera, city manager for Joliet, are on hand to make brief comments in support of our
license renewal.
I am very proud of our record here in Joliet. We are a dedicated and committed member of this
community and we are further dedicated to the continuous growth of the Empress so that we can
make an even larger contribution to the local and state economy, making the kinds of social
investments that benefit Illinois.
In this presentation we will be talking about:
?
?
?
?
?
?

The capital investments we make in our property;
The investments we make in our people;
The support we give to charitable organizations;
The contributions we make through purchases with local and state vendors;
The efforts we put forth to ensure adherence to the regulatory requirements of this Board;
And the impact we make in promoting tourism in Illinois.

We have outlined many of the efforts we have made in these areas in our Social Investment Plan
that was provided to the Board earlier in the year,

4

 Capital Investments :
Since 2002, the year we were last licensed, we have reinvested over $69 million of capital
spending in this property.
$43 million of this was invested in our new barge facility in 2003…a total that also represents
more than $21 million paid to Illinois company’s using Illinois labor.
In addition to new construction, we have also consistently invested in major property upgrades.
In 2005 alone, we invested over $690,000 on hotel renovations …$360,000 in pavilion
upgrades…and $127,000 on kitchen remodeling. That is just the major 2005 construction
projects. We have invested several times this amount for new slot product, equipment and
ongoing maintenance to keep the Empress operationally competitive.
But capital investments alone won’t keep Empress ahead of the competition.
Casinos are, ultimately, a service business…in which a well-trained, courteous, friendly, and
professional staff can keep customers coming back again and again. So we believe just as
strongly in investing in the almost one thousand people who work here.
…a workforce that is among the largest in Will County.
Attracting and keeping good people means paying them good wages
At Empress, the average salary with benefits of our employees is almost $40,000.
These benefits include generous paid vacation, 401K company match, health, dental and vision
insurance.
We also offer our Eye Hi Goodbye bonus program to employees when they collectively exhibit
high levels of customer courtesy. From 2002 through 2005 we have paid over $2 million in such
cash bonuses.
And we believe in giving people not just jobs, but the opportunity to build a career.
We provide tuition reimbursement of up to $1,500 annually for undergraduate study, and $2,000
for graduate work.
In the past four years, Empress has made 95 tuition reimbursement payments to its employees for
a total cost of almost $90,000.
To further encourage people to advance their careers, we have a proven record of promoting
from within. Employees are trained and encouraged to seek promotion, and our policy in filling
openings is to give first consideration to qualified internal candidates.

5

 Does this add up to job satisfaction? We believe it does. People stay where they feel valued and
rewarded, people who come here tend to stay here…on average, our employees have been here
nearly six and a half years.
But numbers alone can’t tell the story…that’s why we’d like you to hear Empress employees tell
their stories…in their own words.
Building a diverse workforce is a key goal at Empress…and our success in pursuing this goal is
reflected in our people.
About 24% of our staff is composed of minority employees…a number that exceeds the 18.2%
minority population in Will County as a whole.
In addition to standard recruitment channels Empress actively recruits for employees in areas
where there are greater chances for finding qualified minority applicants. Such efforts include:
?
?
?

We advertise for job candidates in leading minority publications like the Chicago
Defender, Exito! and El Conquistador.
Open positions for both front line and managerial positions are sent to The Will County
Workforce Council, Chicago Urban League, the Spanish Center and the American Indian
Center.
Empress has participated in the following job fairs:
o Joliet Job Corp Fair 2005
o Diversity Job Fairs Inc. 2005 – This organization produces job fairs to link
minorities to employers. They partner with organizations such as NAACP, Urban
League, League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC).
o Operations Access for Employment of Persons with Disabilities sponsored by
Cook County.

Another important part of this initiative is our Manager in Training intern program to prepare
people for careers in the casino industry.
This program offers two fully paid internships each lasting one year. The program is open to
internal or external candidates and offers:
?
?
?
?

40 hours of pay per week with 30 hours dedicated to working at Empress and 10 hours
allocated for the Intern to attend college.
Full benefits include vacation pay, health & life insurance, 401K-retirement plan and
tuition reimbursement.
Each Intern will spend four months in three areas of interest chosen by the Intern.
Empress offers 12 areas of business discipline to choose from.
In addition to the tuition reimbursement offered to all full time employees, an Intern is
eligible for an additional Career Development Education Grant of up to $2,000 which
Empress will pay up front upon enrollment in an accredited school.

Our interns are here with us today, … Victor and Angela would you please stand.

6

 I am pleased to announce that Victor and Angela have taken permanent positions with us, Angela
as an F&B Supervisor and Victor in Information Services.
Community Involvement/Charity
The management and employees of the Empress have worked to establish deep and long-lasting
roots in our community. We do so not out of a sense of obligation, but from recognition of our
role as one of the area’s leading employers and economic drivers. These are the people and
communities that have helped us become successful: giving back is just a matter of doing the
right thing.
We make cash and in-kind donations to a diverse range of non-profit organizations. In 2005 we
made contributions to over 80 non-profit groups, but we would like to highlight what we call our
Major Charity Sponsorships. They are:
?
?
?
?
?

Easter Seals
Senior Services Center
United Negro College Fund
Joliet Junior College Scholarships
Joliet Will County Center for Economic Development

Also in 2005, we established the Empress Scholarship Fund, which each year awards two
minority students $2,500 for study at Joliet Junior College.
In all, Empress contributed over $234,000 in cash and in-kind contributions to local agencies and
organizations in 2005…a dramatic increase of 39% over the previous year. And we remain
committed to assisting those non-profit organizations that provide much needed services to the
area.
Just recently we made two new charitable commitments:
?
?

We committed to give the Salvation Army $10,000 for the construction of a new
community center in Joliet to benefit disadvantaged citizens.
We have also committed $5,000 to the N’DIGO Foundation which awards scholarships
to Chicago and suburban students

But monetary and in-kind donations are not the only impact we make to local non-profit
organizations. We encourage our employees to provide their time and effort to help out these
organizations. Some examples include:
?
?
?

United Cerebral Palsy of Will County “Great Chefs Tasting” – Empress donated food
and Empress Chefs donated their time at this event.
American Cancer Society Relay for Life – Empress employees volunteer to walk to raise
money for Cancer research.
Black Pride Parade – Empress has been involved with this organization since 1997.

7

 ?
?

Catholic Charities Back To School Backpack Days – Empress employees spent a day
packing backpacks for underprivileged children.
United Way Community Days – In 2005, Empress employee volunteers painted the walls
of the Easter Seals Joliet Region Center. Empress also paid for the paint and painting
supplies for this project.

Economic Development
In 2005, we made more than 2.5 million dollars in purchases from local businesses and suppliers
and over $13 million in purchases from Illinois vendors.
Purchases with local and Illinois vendors provide more opportunity for Illinois residents because
the vendors we use hire Illinois labor and in turn buy the goods and services they need from
other Illinois vendors. Here’s just one of the company owners we work with to tell you how he
feels about doing business with Empress:
As we have previously outlined to the Board in our Social Investment Plan, we devote a
significant amount of our resources at Empress to advance our commitment to equal opportunity
for minority, woman-owned, and disabled enterprises.
In 2005, approximately 16% of our non-exempt purchases were from such businesses—a figure
that marks a clear upward trend from the 11.5% of the year before, and one that we hope to
increase even more in coming years.
?

Empress representatives have attended three minority vendor fairs so far in 2006. We
have developed good leads from these vendor fairs.

Another key initiative is our work with the Will County Center for Economic Development. The
CED is the point organization for business development in the Joliet and Will County
area…working to market the region, generate leads, and steer development dollars this way.
Our involvement with the CED isn’t just business; it’s about personal commitment, as I sit on the
CED’s board of directors and currently serve as its 2006 chairman.
Although Empress is already one of the largest supporters of the CED, we have increased our
funding commitment by 10% and will contribute $440,000 over the course of the next four years.
Again, we see this not as expenditure but as an investment in a shared future.
No one knows this better than the president and CEO of the Center, John Greuling…which is
why he has offered to share his views with you today.
Regulatory Compliance
Our commitment as a property and a company is to ensure the highest standards of regulatory
compliance.

8

 As everyone at Empress can tell you regulatory compliance and attention to problem gambling
are responsibilities we take very seriously. We are constantly reinforcing this to our employees.
Our safeguards in this vital area include extensive and continuous training on internal controls
and adherence to Title 31 rules, as well as a rigorous program of internal auditing and quarterly
certifications instituted by Penn National Gaming. We also adhere to the AGAs Code of
Conduct for Responsible Gaming.
Critical areas of focus include:
Underage Gambling/Unattended Minors
In 2005, Empress security staff verified 156,874 patron IDs. This represents over 8% of all
people who entered the casino. Empress staff detected and arrested 18 underage individuals in
2005.
We have moved our turnstiles so that most of our facility is now restricted to person’s of 21
years of age or older. We have changed our hotel policy so that principally all guests must be
over 21.
We believe these changes will lessen the likelihood that irresponsible people will leave their
minor children unattended, and will provide an extra level of security to prevent the consumption
of alcohol by underage persons.
Compliance
In 2006 we added the position of Compliance Specialist to assist in monitoring adherence to the
regulations and controls we operate under.
This new position reports to the Director of
Compliance.
Self Exclusion
And certainly, our heightened focus on compliance is no more evident than in the
implementation of self-exclusion and financial restriction programs
Even deficiencies, when they occur, are seen as opportunities to improve our systems. In
response to the exclusion program violation in 2003, we undertook new measures to increase our
training regimen, and tighten discipline. Since 2004 Empress has had in place its Eagle Eye
reward program that rewards employees for detecting Self-excluded patrons. This programs
offers:
? A gift certificate to any employee who detects a self-excluded patron.
? A monthly cash prize drawing where we award an employee who detected a selfexcluded patron $250 in cash.
In 2005 alone we awarded over $5,000 worth of Eagle Eye Rewards.

9

 Other safeguards developed to ensure enforcement of the IGB Statewide Self-Exclusion
program are:
?
?
?
?
?
?
?

A weekly triple check of our self-exclusion database
We perform regular comparisons of the entire IGB Self Exclusion database to our own
player tracking system to ensure that they match.
Daily departmental audits to ensure that employees are ALWAYS checking for selfexclusion status.
More severe discipline for employees who fail to check every personally identifiable
patron transaction.
We have added a daily-computerized review of casino activity so we can detect whether a
self-excluded person has had a transaction.
All employees go through responsible gaming training at least once a year with many
employees attending twice-yearly training.
All IGB Self Excluded persons caught are arrested for criminal trespass. We have been
doing this for over two years now.

Responsible Gaming – Community Education
In 2005 Empress hosted a free day-long Problem Gambling Seminar, at which local mental
health professionals, clinicians, social workers and other area professionals were invited to learn
how to detect and deal with the signs of gambling addiction in their clients.
?
?

The seminar was attended by over 100 such people.
We also discussed self-exclusion/financial restrictions options.

This seminar was well received and gave information on the issue to many people who did not
know much about it. They are now in turn better able to recognize gambling problems in the
people they treat and know what resources are available.
Tourism
Another vital factor in Empress’s importance to state and local economies is its contribution to
regional tourism.
Our marketing partners include, among others, Chicagoland Speedway, the Rialto Theater, and
the Joliet Jackhammers minor league baseball team.
As the only casino in Chicagoland with a recreational vehicle park, we can offer travelers from
near and far an experience and amenities they can’t find anywhere else.
These are just a few of the reasons we entertained nearly 2 million visitors last year alone. In
2006, we remain committed to growing our business as is already evident in our year over year
revenue increases.

10

 Conclusion
As we review the many different contributions Empress has made...and will continue to make,
it’s important to keep in mind one of the overriding reasons we are here in the first place.
And that is to help make possible the rebirth and revitalization of the city of Joliet and the
surrounding region.
Joliet Mayor Art Schultz expressed how Empress has enabled the City of Joliet to make many
improvements in the community as well as supplying many jobs for the citizens of Joliet.
Joliet City Manager John Mezera also expressed the same.
Over the course of today’s presentation, we’ve thrown a lot of facts and figures at you…but there
are a few key numbers we feel best distill our case. And it’s these we’d like to reiterate one last
time.
One: We are a key source of tax revenue for the city and state. Empress has contributed over
$390,000,000 in state and local taxes over the past four years.
Two: We support a wide variety of causes. Between 2002 and 2005, Empress’s charitable
contributions totaled over $751,000.
Three: We provide jobs and career opportunities to people in and around Will County. In the
same four-year period, Empress spent over $156,000,000 in payroll and benefits.
Four: We pump even more dollars the into Illinois economy through purchases with Illinois
vendors. Here, the four-year total for purchases is $104,000,000
Five: We keep Empress competitive and up-to-date through capital expenditures. Over the last
four years we have invested over $69,000,000 in capital spending.
That’s what we’ve done over the past four years since we were last relicensed. But our focus is
on the future, where we want to build on the progress we’ve already made and take it to a newer
and higher level. To enrich the relationship we’re privileged to enjoy with the people and
communities around us. And, above all, to justify the trust you have placed in us.
In spite of a challenging tax environment, we believe we have made the investments in our
property, our people and our community to fully meet the requirements and spirit of The
Riverboat Gaming Act and that we will continue to do so in the future. Therefore, I respectfully
request your approval for renewal of our gaming license for an additional four years.
Member Moore stated that Empress had an excellent presentation. Member Moore also stated
requested percentages on total dollar amounts of the MBC dollars. Need to look at the broad
scope for the business in the area community.

11

 Member Gardner stated that it was a good presentation and thanked the Empress for their
hospitality. Member Gardner inquired about the lay off situation. Upon approval of the Penn
acquisition Member Gardner stated that the numbers should stay the same in the area of
employment. DeSanctis stated that it was not part of the agreement. Staffing is an issue. He is
hopeful that the employment levels stay similar. DeSanctis stated that we are concerned about
the employees. We are trying to find jobs for the personnel that the layoff will effect. We are
trying to handle it very delicately. Gardner referenced the Alton situation involving Surveillance
Department errors. DeSanctis referenced the situation and stated that it was employee error, and
those employees were released and replaced by new personnel.
Member Gardner stated that casinos need table games. What can be done to ensure that table
games be part of the mix at the casinos. DeSanctis stated that the legislators need to be lobbied.
The tax does not allow table games to be profitable. Lower tax means more table games.
Member Moore stated that more charitable contributions need to be made. Jeff Pfeiffer stated
that the charitable contributions did rise.
The Chairman stated that he is in agreement with Member Gardner about table games. Table
games need to be a part of the casinos.
DeSanctis said the Empress is also in agreement. We are open to any feedback on the subject.
Items for Final Action
Grand Victoria Casino - MGM’s Request for IGB Approval of Nevada Landing
Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board approve MGM’s request for IGB Approval of Nevada Landing Partnership
as a Subsidiary Guarantor of Senior Notes and delegate to the Administrator final
approval of such transaction. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Harrah’s Metropolis – Request for Reduction of Statutory Base Tax Amount

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve Harrah’s Metropolis Casino’s request for a $272,109 reduction of
the statutory base tax payable pursuant to Section 13(a)(15) of the Riverboat Gambling
Act due to a condition beyond the control of Harrah’s Metropolis Casino that posed a
hazardous threat to the health and safety of patrons, that being the fact that Harrah’s
Metropolis Casino was required to close as a result of low water levels on the Ohio
River from August 7, 2005 to August 10, 2005. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

12

 Mike Crider invited the staff and Board to the ribbon cutting ceremony of the project.
Mike Crider also invited the Board to hold a Gaming Board meeting in Metropolis.
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the September, 2006 meeting will be held there.

? Alton Belle Casino – Jeffrey J. Warr, Security Manager – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Jeffrey J. Warr, Security Manager a Level One license of The Alton
Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner invited the candidate to speak. Jeffrey Warr exchanged pleasantries.

? Hollywood Casino Aurora – Roscoe N. Green, Senior Vice President & Assistant
General Manager – Level One

Candidate was invited to speak. Mr. Green exchanged pleasantries.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Roscoe N. Green, Senior Vice President and Assistant General
Manager, as a Level One licnesee of Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Moore seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM

? Paltronics, Inc. - Correction of Motion
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board certify and approve the position of President as a Key Person of Paltronics,
Inc. and further to remove GemGroup, Inc. as a Key Person of Paltronics, Inc. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

? Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service Company – License Renewal
John Janicek addressed the Board for the license renewal. Member Gardner inquired about
financial information; commenting on a downward trend. Member Gardner stated that they
submit quarterly unaudited financial statements to the Board.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board approve the Supplier’s license of Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service
Company for a term of 4 years expiring in June 2010 provided however, that the
company submits unaudited, unconsolidated quarterly financial statements on Atlantic
City Coin & Slot Service Company to the Board within 45 days at the end of each
quarter.

13

 Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board certify and approve the following
position and person as a Key Persons of the licensee:
1. President; and
2. Maxie R. Seelig.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board approve Atlantic City Coin & Slot
Company to provide EGD’s pursuant to the requirements set out in the Board’s
Adopted Rules. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve 52 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 271
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Chief Legal Counsel Mike Fries stated that we have 1 disciplinary complaint.
? Joseph Christensen -

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Joseph Christensen, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to his April 2006 criminal theft conviction in Will
County, Illinois.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Mr. Christensen’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Moore
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Reverend Tom Gray addressed the Board and commented on three things. The “look back, a
look ahead, and a parting last shot.” Reverend Gray is moving out of state. Member Gardner
commented on the time for his train schedule. Rev. Gray stated that this is a tough state in
regards to regulation. He commented on the past 15 years; political pressure to expand gaming
which expansion has not occurred. Just a general synopsis of the Reverend’s point of view on
gaming, and the lottery. Stating that the Governor has plans for hard-core gambling.
He stated that he is moving west. The bloom is off the rose and the society is starting to feel the
thorns. Gaming cannot deliver on its promises. People need to win, and not be made victims.

14

 People are gambling too much. The percentages of people gambling have dropped. This is a
product that is trending down. He touched on the self-exclusion program. Checking driver’s
licenses will eventually be checked. Rev. Gray feels that society will demand a license to
gamble. If one person gets in that shouldn’t, that’s a shame. He went on to say about a phone
call he received from a young man whose mother gambled away everything and is now living
with her daughter. They have a mother who is now dependent on them, for she gambled away all
that she had. There is a bad side of gambling, not just one where jobs are furnished or
communities uplifted. There are always two sides of the story.
Member Winkler expressed his appreciation of Tom Gray and stated that he would be sorely
missed.
At 3:15 p.m. Member Winkler moved to adjourn . Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

15

 