MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 17, 1997
TELECONFERENCE
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on July 17, 1997 in the
conference room on the 3rd floor in the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board members participated via telephonic conferencing: Chairman J.
Thomas Johnson was present in the Gaming Board’s office. Other members present
via telephone: Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Robert F. Vickrey and
Byron G. Cudmore (joined the teleconference at 2:45 p.m.).
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrator
Joseph C. Haughey, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack, Outside Legal Counsel
William O’Connor, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and
interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 2:10 p.m. Member Browder moved
that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1),
(4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss pending litigation and
matters involving probable litigation. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 3:08 p.m.
Chairman Johnson reported that HP, Inc. filed a protest of the Board’s action to deny
renewal of its license. The Chairman announced the appointment of Michael Nash,
Esq. as the Administrative Law Judge to hear the matter and make a recommendation
to the Board.
The Board asked the Administrator to ask representatives of HP, Inc. to be present at
the July 29, 1997 Board meeting. The Board asked that HP give a report of its
intentions for operations after July 31.
The Chairman explained that Illinois
Administrative Law provides that a license remains in force until the administrative body
(here, the Gaming Board) renders a final determination. He further explained that the
protest filed by HP means that a final determination would not be made until the
requested hearing has been completed.
Chairman Johnson reported that Empress Casino - Joliet filed a request to have an
additional 21 days to file an answer to the Board’s disciplinary actions that were issued
at the June 24, 1997 Board meeting.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board deny the motion filed on behalf of petitioners
Robert Gardner, Jr., John Matravers, Viola Avants and Empress Casino Joliet

 Corporation to extend the time to answer or otherwise respond to the disciplinary
complaints filed against them. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman asked the Administrator to advise Empress of the Board’s decision. He
further advised the audience that a request to amend an answer can be made any time
after the filing date and that the Board has never objected to the filing of an amended
complaint. The Chairman stated there is sufficient latitude for a licensee to amend its
initial answer at a later date. He further noted that the Board is reluctant to authorize a
request for an extension of time, as the rules of the Board make no provision for such
an extension.
Chairman Johnson stated that the Board may convene a two day meeting on Monday,
July 28 and Tuesday, July 29 with the Monday session tentatively scheduled for closed
session discussion.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Vickrey moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 3:15 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

 