MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
April 25, 2000
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 25, 2000 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: Gregory C. Jones, Chairman; and Members,
Joseph A. Lamendella, Stuart P. Levine, Sterling M. Ryder and Staci M. Yandle.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Special Counsel to the Board
Robert F. Casey, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile Cusack, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan McDonald, Thomas Swoik and James W. Wagner, Deputy Chief Legal
Counsel Jeannette Tamayo, other members of the staff and one member of the public.
Chairman Jones called the meeting to order at 9:46 a.m. in the 3rd floor conference room.
Member Lamendella moved that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending Litigation and Matters Involving Probable Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The member of the public was asked to leave so that the Board could commence its closed
session discussion.
The Board convened to Open Session at 1:25 p.m.

 Minutes
Member Lamendella moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board from:
Special Meeting of November 30, 1999
Regular Meeting of December 16, 1999
Special Meeting of January 14, 2000
Regular Meeting of January 19, 2000
Special Meeting of February 18, 2000

Member Lamendella furthered moved that the Board approve the open session minutes
of the Illinois Gaming Board from:
Special Meeting of January 14, 2000
Special Meeting of February 18, 2000
Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jones reminded members of the public of the Special Board meeting on May 3,
2000 on problem gambling. The Chairman stated that the meeting would be at 9:00 in the
Assembly Hall of the James R. Thompson Center. Chairman Jones announced that agendas
for the all day meeting are available in the lobby and any questions that the public would like
the Board to consider directing to specific panelists, can be submitted in writing to Janis
Kielbasa.
Chairman Jones noted his disappointment regarding the proposed budget being reduced by $2
million. Chairman Jones stated that the $2 million was to be used as a grant from the Gaming
Board to the Department of Human Services to fund initiatives for research and treatment of
compulsive gambling. Chairman Jones stated that the agency would continue to work with
Human Services to better understand compulsive gambling and pursue funding in the future.
Chairman Jones was happy to announce the new secretary to the Board, Monica Thomas.
Chairman Jones stated that Monica has been with the Gaming Board for two years, formerly
an Administrative Assistant to the Audit division, and that she is exceptionally qualified and
will do an excellent job.
Member Lamendella stated that in the last few weeks he has received unsolicited comments
from patrons. Mr. Lamendella stated that he believes patron input needs to be part of the
licensing process and part of the regulatory process. Mr. Lamendella stated that patrons are a
major part of the process and should have some significant input.

2

 Mr. Lamendella stated that he further believes that the Board and the various licensees
should have a uniform global policy on underage gaming. Mr. Lamendella stated that the
public, the operators and the Board have to come to some type of compact to make the
problem as minimal as possible. Mr. Lamendella stated that it’s not about the fines, it’s
about preventing the problem. Mr. Lamendella invited the input of the public, licensees,
Administrator and the Board to see if together the problem can be minimized.
Chairman Jones added that at the upcoming casino Manager’s meeting, he hopes to discuss a
uniform age at which casinos should card patrons. Chairman Jones made mention of Casino
Queen’s disciplinary fine for allowing minors to be on the boat. Chairman Jones stated that
Casino Queen has made steps to correct the problem including agreeing to implement their
carding age from 21 to 30 years of age.
Member Lamendella stated that if a policy is universal and global no one can unfairly be
faulted. Member Lamendella reiterated that the goal is not finding fault, it’s prevention.
Member Ryder briefly commented on the presentation by Emerald at the Board’s March 21st
meeting. Member Ryder stated that it would have been a wonderful opportunity for Emerald
to say publicly and indicate strongly that they were willing to conform with all of the rules
and regulations of the Board and cooperate with the Board in the development of their
project. Member Ryder stated that instead Emerald chose to follow a path of a lot of
legalistic mumbo jumbo trying to articulate reasons why they weren’t subject to Board rules
and regulations that all of the other casinos are subject to. Member Ryder stated that he felt
the argument was misplaced and will ultimately delay the completion of the project. Member
Ryder stated that it was an unfortunate approach to take and that Emerald should be doing
everything it can to acknowledge to the Board that it is going to be regulated as any other
licensee.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Sergio Acosta was absent for this portion of the meeting, however, Chief Legal
Counsel Mareile Cusack provided the report.
Ms. Cusack discussed concerns regarding proposed signs prepared by the IGB to be posted at
various locations at riverboat sites. Ms. Cusack displayed two proposed signs and asked the
Board to determine which two signs they would prefer the IGB to have posted. Ms. Cusack
also requested that the Board discuss briefly the location on the riverboats that they would
like the signs to be posted.
Member Yandle suggested that the message on each sign should be combined on one sign.
Chairman Jones and Member Lamendella agreed. Member Lamendella stated that it is
important that a sign be posted on the riverboats that carry a message, he stated that he just
didn’t want to stress complaints because there are more than just complaints.

3

 Member Lamendella stated that the signs should be posted at the entrance of each riverboat.
He asked the location of the existing literature that the licensees dispense.
Ms. Cusack stated that most of the signs are located at the cages but the staff is also
suggesting that the signs be posted at the entrance, right after the turnstile.
Member Lamendella suggested that the signs be posted at the entrance, exit and cages.
Member Lamendella stated that maybe comments from the public and licensees would be
helpful before the Board adopts the signs.
Chairman Jones agreed on a comment period and stated that at the next meeting the final
language will be adopted. Chairman Jones stated that copies of the proposed sign should be
distributed to anyone who has any suggestions. Chairman Jones also suggested that the
Board’s address also be included on the signs.
Ms. Cusack stated that signs would be added on the agenda for the next General Manager’s
meeting on June 7th.
Chairman Jones stated that final action on the signs will not take place until June’s Board
meeting giving all the casinos a chance to have input on the issue. Chairman Jones suggested
that staff could request their input prior to the June 7th General Manager’s meeting if the staff
wants signs up as soon as possible. Chairman Jones stated that any casinos that have copies
of the signs are invited to make comments and suggestions.
Member Yandle suggested that Board should be prepared to go with a final version at the
May meeting.
Chairman Jones stated that any changes that the Board feels is appropriate will be made and
copies of the sign will be circulated to the public and sent to every licensee with comments to
be received prior to the next Board meeting.
Ms. Cusack requested the Board’s input concerning the posting of compulsive gambling
hotline numbers on the Board’s website. She stated that the website should include hotlines
for neighboring states such as Indiana and Michigan.
Monthly Performance Report
Deputy Administrator Swoik summarized the monthly statistical reports for March AGR and
patron counts. He reported that the March AGR was nearly $147.7 million bringing the total
AGR since dockside gambling began, in June, to over 1 billion 173 million dollars. The
Admissions total for March was over 1.7 million – 51.6 percent above March 1999. Mr.
Swoik stated that the states share of taxes for the last 12 months was up by approximately
$89.7 million or 34.5 percent over the prior 12 months. The local share was up by $14
million or 17 percent.

4

 Public Commentary
Tom Grey, Executive Director of the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling stated
the he feels the Board is extremely important for the future in trying to find some balance
between the profitability of boats and the pain to the citizens. Mr. Gray also stated that in
regards to the fine with Casino Queen, there was a pattern that went on and he is glad to hear
that Casino Queen has addressed it. Mr. Gray stated that he would like to see that suspension
of a license is not ruled out for persistent patterns of violations or lack of being aggressive.
Mr. Grey stated that he is pleased to hear that the carding age is being increased to thirty.
Mr. Grey stated that he applauds the Board for its efforts in gambling reform and he is
committed to working with the Board and the owners.
.
Pamela Bick, former Harrah’s Casino employee, stated that she would still like to see more
investigation on her allegations of Harrah’s casino shaving employees hours and making
employees work off of the clock. Ms. Bick stated that she has done more research on the
purpose of the Illinois Gaming Board and would like to know what happens to the casino
when they are stealing from their employees. Ms. Bick stated that she doesn’t think the
Harrah’s casino is bad, just the department that she worked for. She would like to see the
department admit its wrongful actions instead of covering it up. Ms. Bick also proposed that
a toll-free anonymous hotline number, that’s independent of the management, be printed on
employees check stubs, casino elevators and bathrooms to investigate the concerns of
employees.
Chairman Jones asked Ms. Bick if the toll-free hotline number that she was referring to
should be incorporated in the signs that will be displayed at the entrance, exit and cages of all
boats. Chairman Jones also stated that with respect to the issue of shaving hours, the
Department of Labor would handle that matter. Chairman Jones thanked Ms. Bick for her
comments and stated that the Board will review any other information provided.
Ms. Bick stated that she would like to supply the Board with her information but if the Board
does not review it, what good is it.
Member Yandle commented to Ms. Bick that in order for the Board to comment on the
information Ms. Bick has, she has to submit the information. Member Yandle encouraged
Ms. Bick to submit all her information because the Board can’t act on anything that they
don’t have.
Ms. Bick apologized if she gave the Board the wrong impression because she has seen more
action in the last two months than she has in the last two years.

Thomas O’Donnell, President of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association along with Nick
Panagkis from Market Shares Corp., presented to the Board an On-Board Patron Survey. The
survey concluded that nearby states represent substantial competition for Illinois riverboat
5

 casinos; there are fewer out-of-state patrons visiting Illinois casinos than in the 1997 survey;
customers value the convenience of having cash services available; a majority of 62% say
they would be more likely to patronize out-of-state competitors more often if cash services
were removed; and finally removal of cash services would put Illinois riverboat casinos at a
competitive disadvantage.
Member Yandle stated that she is not down playing the importance of the information
provided by the survey, however, she felt that the survey could have been utilized to address
the issues that the Board will be dealing with at the special meeting on compulsive gambling.
Member Yandle stated that this was an opportunity that the Gaming Association missed and
that she would have liked the survey to address issues that would have been useful in the
upcoming meeting on problem gamblers.
Member Levine stated that the information provided is interesting but it’s principally a
lobbying effort for the usefulness of ATM’s and is not relevant to the problems that will be
addressed at the special meeting.
Member Ryder asked if any of the questions asked in the survey focused on the use of credit
card cash advanced machines which is not cash belonging to the patron but money being
borrowed from a bank or issuer of the credit card.
Member Yandle asked the purpose of the survey.
Mr. Panagkis stated the purpose was to update the demographics and perform an evaluation
of the cash services available.
Administrator Sergio Acosta followed up on Member Ryder’s question regarding credit card
advance machines. Mr. Acosta asked if there was any effort to define the word “removal” of
services during the survey.
Mr. Panagkis stated that credit card advance machines were combined with ATM’s and was
not singled out during the survey. Mr. Panagkis also stated that he certainly do not want to
miss an opportunity to discuss a much more global issue as compulsive gambling, however,
the issue back when the survey was done was ATM’s on riverboats.
Member Yandle stated that she recognized the clarification but the question of problem
gaming has existed for a long time and the point that she was trying to make is that everyone
has to start thinking more globally. Member Yandle stated that she was simply making a
point to the Gaming Association and everyone else that this was missed opportunity.

Owner Licensee Items
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – Donna Moore was present on behalf of Casino Rock Island for
initial consideration for their license renewal. Ron Wicks, President of Casino Rock Island,
stated that since the passing of dockside legislation, Rock Island has been able to recapture
6

 some of its market share that was lost over the past five years. Mr. Wicks provided the
Board with an update of Rock Island operations and a visual of Rock Island’s expansions.
Bill Renk, Vice President of Sales and Marketing, stated that even though Rock Island was
able to increase its market share after dockside gaming, management recognized a need to
improve property elements that affect guest perception. Mr. Renk stated that Rock Island
determined that an immediate expansion was necessary. The casino invested over 3 million
dollars in the expansion project which was completed in January. Mr. Renk stated that in
addition to more gaming equipment and more gaming space, the casino has also increased its
surveillance capability.
Member Yandle asked what is being done in terms of economic development in the
community since dockside gaming.
Mr. Renk stated that over the year Rock Island has tried to support the downtown
community, specifically the area known as the district of downtown Rock Island. Mr. Renk
stated that in the early days of riverboat gaming, Rock Island was fundamental to the
community and because of that strong start Rock Island has been able to improve upon that.
Mr. Renk stated that Rock Island will be playing a more active role this year by becoming a
major sponsor in events that help the downtown business community, Rock Island’s library,
and botanical center.
Member Ryder stated that he would like the status of Rock Island’s affirmative action plan to
be addressed at the next Board meeting. Member Ryder also stated that he would like to be
reassured at the next meeting that there is access on the casino for persons with disabilities.
Chairman Jones asked how the local community was using the local funds.
Mr. Renk stated that the City Council of Rock Island is at a contemplating stage and that they
do not know what they want to do with the funds. Mr. Renk stated that the impression he
gets from the members of the City Council is that they aren’t going to rely on the funds as
they had in the past.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA (“HCA”) – Patrick Mitchell, General Manager of
Hollywood Casino, was present to ask for final approval for their barge project.

Administrator Sergio Acosta stated that staff have reviewed the plans that were submitted on
behalf of Hollywood with respect to their permanent barge construction project. Mr. Acosta
stated that the staff’s recommendation the Board provisionally approve the project subject to
final approval and also update as requested by staff during the construction project.
Member Lamendella asked Mr. Mitchell to give a brief synopsis of the project. Member
Ryder asked if there will only be one entrance and if there were windows through which
gaming can be observed by an underage person passing by.

7

 Mr. Mitchell, as requested, gave a brief synopsis of the project and informed Member Ryder
that there is only one entrance for guest. Mr. Mitchell also stated that there are windows, and
depending on where an underage person was standing, gambling activity could be seen.
Member Ryder expressed his concerns about underage persons being able to view gambling
activities. Member Ryder stated that the Board does not want to add to the enticement that is
already there. Member Ryder stated that down the road this issue will have to be addressed.
Mr. Mitchell stated that they will address the issue.
Administrator Acosta wanted to clarify that the link barge project is a separate issue, which is
not before the Board at this time.

Member Yandle moved that, pursuant to Board rule 3000.230 (d), the Board
authorize Hollywood to proceed with its proposed barge construction project and
related agreements. The approval of the construction project is subject to
Hollywood updating the Board on the progress of the construction from time to
time, as deemed appropriate by the Administrator. Further, once the project is
completed, Hollywood is to seek final approval from the Board of its barge
construction after necessary approvals from the State Fire Marshall, U.S. Coast
Guard and other appropriate authorities have been obtained. This approval is
subject to Hollywood maintaining its riverboats or another contingency plan unless
further authorized by the Board. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Occupational Licensees
Member Ryder moved that the Board approve 170 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 467 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3 and
deny 2 application for an Occupational License Level 2 and 3 applications for an
Occupational License Level 3. Further, I move that the Board direct the
Administrator to contact 1 pending applicant for an occupational license to notify
that applicant that staff has recommended that the board deny his application for
an occupational license and provide this applicant an opportunity to respond.
Member Lamendella seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote, with the exception of Member Levine who left public session
approximately 2:50 P.M.
.

Disciplinary Complaints
Member Lamendella moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Action No. DC-00-03
against Raymond Ristich. Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
8

 voice vote, with the exception of Member Levine who left public session approximately
2:50 P.M.
At 3:10 P.M., Member Yandle moved that the Board reconvened to closed session to
discuss personnel matters, Member Lamendella seconded. The Board adopted the motion
by unanimous consent.

Respectfully submitted,

Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 