Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary June 20, 2018
Depaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Juan M. Calderón
Victor M. Gonzalez
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D (on the phone)
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Fikirte Wagaw, MPH, First Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary June 20, 2018
Depaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:10 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The approval of the May 16, 2018 minutes was deferred.
Commissioner’s Update: First Deputy Commissioner Fikirte Wagaw provided the following
updates:


LGBT Events. At the end of May, CDPH's HIV/STI bureau partnered with the 2018
International Mister Leather (IML) Conference at the Congress Hotel. CDPH and
community volunteers worked together to provide over 100,000 free condoms/safer sex
kits and PrEP information. This month our LGBT liaison and staff will be participating in
many events throughout the city.



Potential Measles Exposure. Last Friday, CDPH was notified of an individual with a
laboratory confirmed measles infection. Measles is highly contagious virus and spreads
through the air through coughing and sneezing. People may have been exposed to
measles at four healthcare facilities, a workplace and if they were at Honeygrow
restaurant located at 70 E. Lake St. on the evening of June 12th. Individuals who think
they had been exposed were advised to check with their health care provider about
protection through prior vaccination and notify CDPH only if not vaccinated.



Tuberculosis(TB). The TB program attended the 2018 National Tuberculosis Control
Association Annual Meeting in the last week of May in Palm Springs, CA. Our teams
presented the “Evaluation of a Higher Education TB Screening Outreach Project” and
“Substance Misuse among Individuals with TB in Chicago and Potential Interventions to
Avert Overdose Deaths”.



Vector Control. CDPH issued a press release reminding residents, especially those
spending time outdoors, to protect themselves from mosquito illness by taking a few
precautionary steps. While the number of West Nile-related illnesses in Chicago has been
low in the last couple of years, we’re maintaining our vigilance with West Nile Virus
(WNV) and are asking residents to also take precautions. WNV infection can cause an
illness called West Nile Fever, characterized by fever, muscle aches, rash and headache.
West Nile Fever can sometimes be a significant illness, with lingering weakness and
fatigue lasting several weeks. More severe West Nile illness is less common, but can
include meningitis and encephalitis.



Request for Proposals. CDPH’s 2018 RFP process is underway. The following are RFPs
that are currently open range in deadlines from June 20th to July 13th.
o Resiliency in Community After Stress and Trauma (ReCAST) Learning Institute
o Resiliency in Community After Stress and Trauma (ReCAST) Community
Ambassador
o Housing Opportunities for Persons Undergoing Treatment for Tuberculosis

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary June 20, 2018
Depaul Center, 333 South State Street
o Healthcare Provider Outreach and Education for Childhood Lead Poisoning and
Prevention
o HIV Services Request for Qualifications
For more information please visit CDPH website under “Alerts” or via City of Chicago
eProcurement Solicitations


CityHealth Gold Medal. On Tuesday, May 22, CityHealth released its policy ratings of
the nation's 40 largest cities. Chicago is the only city in the midwest to get a gold medal.
The ratings are determined by an evaluation of nine health-related policies that help
residents and communities thrive. The City of Chicago is recognized for our policies
addressing transportation, public safety, universal pre-k, affordable housing and more
that are improving our residents' quality of life. Commissioner Morita was honored to
receive the CityHealth Gold Medal on behalf of the city of Chicago.



Addressing Racial and Ethnic Disparities. Our Epidemiologist, Tamara Rushovich
received the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation National Award for Outstanding
Epidemiology Practice in Addressing Racial and Ethnic Disparities. Tamara’s abstract
focused on the racial and neighborhood economic disparities in opioid overdose deaths in
Chicago. We congratulate the epidemiology team for their continued work in addressing
these racial disparities within the lens of public health and of course using data.



Advocating for direct CDC funding to big cities. Commissioner Morita met with the
Director of CDC on Monday to make the case for continued direct funding to big cities
like Chicago, NYC and LA. The director was appreciative of the information the
Commissioner provided related to CDPH’s work on HIV, HPV, opioids, healthcare
associated infections and Hepatitis C.

Presentation: “Preparedness Program Overview and MARC Activation,” Bureau of Public
Health Preparedness and Emergency Response. Christopher Shields, Frankie Shipman-Amuwo,
Micah Burkey.
Board member Juan Calderón provided updates about provision of funds and goods to
municipalities in Puerto Rico after the hurricane. Board members also commented on long-term
mental health needs of residents and after action report findings on the start date of the MARC.
Comments by the Board President:
Policy Update: Deputy Commissioner Brian Richardson provided the following updates:


State budget. A bipartisan budget passed overwhelmingly and on time this year. It has
$38.5B in appropriations, and the total budget (which includes federal funds and other
sources) amounts to $80.2B. Highlights:
o An additional $350M for elementary and secondary education, as required by last
year’s new school funding formula and $50M more for early childhood education.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary June 20, 2018
Depaul Center, 333 South State Street
o Reinstated funding for human services that had been cut or eliminated in the
Governor’s proposed budget, including on epilepsy, autism, youth employment,
addiction treatment, and community mental health.
o A new “critical access rate” for pharmacies to help ensure Medicaid reimburses
independent pharmacies enough to cover their costs.


Additional state bills, awaiting governor action.
o Tobacco 21. The General Assembly passed a bill raising the minimum purchasing
age for tobacco from 18 to 21.
o Opioids and marijuana. Patients with opioid prescriptions would temporarily
qualify for the state’s medical marijuana program. The bill aims to give
alternatives to pain amid the opioid epidemic.
o ACA. This would limit short-term marketplace coverage to 180 days. This is in
response to the Trump administration’s proposal to allow individuals to stay on
short-term plans, which are exempt from ACA mandates, often provide less
coverage, and weaken the purpose of a mandate.
o Gun violence. There were several measures including a 72-hour waiting period
after purchasing firearms and allowing judges to temporarily suspend the gun
rights of someone who displays violent warning signs.



Bulk materials—environment. We mentioned last month that we opened up our bulk
materials rules to propose changes regarding manganese-bearing materials, aiming to
ensure any risks to the public are cleaned up. We held a hearing on the southeast side to
receive feedback. The public comment period is now over and we will be going through
the comments in the coming days to see how to incorporate this input. Our proposal
included saying facilities must fully enclose their operations or put up air monitors to
prove the dust isn’t escaping into the neighborhood.



Opioids. The U.S. House passed 25 bills regarding opioids. One would give the FDA
more authority on illegal drugs being sent via mail. Another would give grants to up to 20
hospitals to help patients who are being discharged after an overdose, giving them
naloxone and getting them linked to treatment.

Old Business: None
New Business: The Board considered a resolution to condemn separation of families at the U.S.Mexico border. The resolution was supported by all Board members present, but there was not a
quorum required for passage.
Public Comments: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:10 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, July 18, 2018 9:00 A.M.

 