MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
July 19, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, July 19, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois at 10:20 A.M. Present
were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 21, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association
Good morning I am here today to update you on a few events that the members of the
Association have or will be involved in this year. Those events include the 45th Annual Chicago
Business Opportunity Fair, the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week JULY 30 and the
Associations sponsorship and participation in the Illinois State Black Chamber of Commerce
Convention.
The 45th Annual Chicago Business Opportunity Fair, organized by the Chicago Minority
Business Development Council took place at Navy Pier in April. For the sixth year the members
of the ICGA sponsored and participated in the events including having a booth at the trade show.
Several of the Association members and non-member casinos also sponsored individual booths.
Purchasing staff from casinos were there to interact with the attendees.
Once again we had tremendous turnout at our booth. I believe numerous contacts were made
that will help us achieve our efforts to work with diverse vendors.
Secondly, I would like to update you on the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week. The
American Gaming Association created Responsible Gaming Week
In 1998 to increase awareness of problem gambling among gaming employees and customers
and to promote responsible gaming nationwide. This year the event will be held the week of July
30, this is fifteenth year for this event. This year’s activities will continue to emphasis the
themes of “Know the Odds “and “taking the mystery out of the slot machines”, and focus on
educating employees and patrons about the odds of all the games available in a casino.

 The information provided again this year by the AGA included media advisory information,
Responsible Gaming Activities Workbooks, buttons, ribbons, stickers, brochures, posters, and
table tents for employee lounges. The objective of the campaign is to involve employees in
activities to promote responsible gaming. Employees are trained to explain to patrons the
significance of the buttons, stickers or ribbons they are wearing during Responsible Gaming
Education Week.
Prior to Responsible Gaming Education Week, management at the casinos provide training to
staff not only related to the week’s activities, but also as a refresher to the training every
employee receives related to responsible gaming.
Although Responsible Gaming Education Week is a special industry-wide collaborative effort,
we are actively involved in improving responsible gaming efforts every week throughout the
year.
I would like to report to you that the Association for the fourth year will participate in the annual
Illinois State Black Chamber of Commerce Convention, as a member of the organization. This
year the conference will be held August 22nd and 23rd at the Par-A-Dice Casino and Hotel in
Peoria.
I will represent the Association at the event including making a brief presentation at one of the
breakfast functions, having an informational table and participating in the various meetings and
seminars. The turnout at last year’s conference was significantly higher than the previous two I
had attended and we are looking forward to another successful conference this year.
I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Initial Consideration – Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers
Casino Des Plaines License Renewal

A presentation was given by Neil Blum and Bill Keena for Rivers Casino License renewal.
●

Casino Queen, Inc. – Phillip B. Kenny – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Phillip B. Kenny as a Key Person of Casino Queen, Inc. in his position
as Vice President and Board Member. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Russell J. Deaver – Level One

2

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that the
Board approve Russell J. Deaver as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his
position as Vice President of Finance and Administration for Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood
Casino Aurora, Inc. – Michael R. Nott – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the Board
approve Michael R. Nott as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as
Director of Compliance for Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood
Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Michael T. Donovan
– Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Michael T. Donovan, as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his
position as Table Games Manager for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s
Casino & Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Lewis M. Linn – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve Lewis M. Linn as a Key Person of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a
Grand Victoria Casino in his position as Trustee of Various Pritzker Family Trusts
of Illinois RBG, LLC. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel
and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino – Thomas M. Jenkin, President of Operations of Caesars Entertainment
Corporation – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve Thomas M. Jenkin as a Key Person of Des Plaines Development
Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino in his position as
President of Operations of Caesars Entertainment Corporation. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

3

 SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board renew the Supplier’s License held by Gaming Partners International
USA, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in July, 2016, and designate the
following individuals, entities and positions as Key Persons of the licensee:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Gaming Partners International Corporation;
Holding Wilson S.A.;
Chief Executive Officer, Gaming Partners International
USA, Inc.;
Chairman, Gaming Partners International
Corporation;
Gregory S. Gronau; and
Elizabeth Carrette.

Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board authorize the licensee to supply
the following products to licensed Illinois casinos:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dice (Paul-Son, Bud Jones, and TK Brands);
Casino chips (Paul-Son and Bud Jones Brands);
Playing Cards;
Roulette wheels;
Big 6 wheels;
Bonus Craps Game;
Roulette reader display boards;
Table layouts as listed on its Board list of approved
products; and
Gaming Tables.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
call vote.
●

unanimously by roll

IGT – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved
that the Board renew the Supplier’s license held by IGT for a term of four (4) years
expiring in July 2016, and designate the following individuals, entities and positions
as Key Persons of the licensee:
•
•
•

International Game Technology;
Chief Executive Officer/Chairman;
President;

4

 •
•

Patti S. Hart; and
Eric A. Berg.

Further, Member Gould moved that the Board authorize the licensee to manufacture,
sell and/or lease electronic gaming devices to licensed Illinois casinos. Member
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Holewinski moved that the Board find
suitable and approve 63 applications for Occupational Licenses, Level 2 and 134
applications for Occupational Licenses, Level 3.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Petya I. Hristova and Monica L. Mendez – Occupational Licensees
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weel moved that
the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints against Petya I. Hristova and Monica L.
Mendez for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board, and
that the Board revoke their occupational licenses, said actions to take effect 21 days
from the dates of service of the Complaints, unless they file Answers to the
Complaints or pay $250 fines within that time period. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rondale M. Malane – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Rondale M. Malane for his admitted
violation of the Rivers Casino policy on theft, and revoke his occupational license,
said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless he files an Answer within that time period. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS
●

In re: the Disciplinary Action of Diana Iris Smith – DC-12-09
Pursuant to section 1155 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Holewinski moved for
the adoption and entry of a Final Board Order adopting the Administrative Law
Judge’s Order granting the Board’s Motion for Summary Judgment and revoking
the Occupational License held by Diana Iris Smith. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 ●

In re: the Disciplinary Action of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet, Jonathan David Johnson and Anna Marlene Loesch, DC11-22
Pursuant to section 1155 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Vander Weel moved for
the adoption and entry of a Final Board Order adopting the Administrative Law
Judge’s Recommendation granting the Board’s Motion for Summary Judgment and
affirming the $50,000 fine issued against Hollywood Casino Joliet and the three-day
suspensions of the occupational licenses of Jonathan David Johnson and Anna
Marlene Loesch. Member Holewinski seconded the motion.

●

Request for Hearing – Orlando D. Allen
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved
that Orlando D. Allen’s request for a hearing be denied based on the fact that he has
offered no facts that establish a prima facie case. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 11:15 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 