Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
September 21, 2017
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting - Riverboat on September
20, 2017. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conference
room: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Steve Dolins, Thomas Dunn, Hector Alejandre and Dee
Robinson.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General
Counsel Agostino Lorenzini, Deputy General Counsel James Pellum, Deputy AdministratorInvestigations Scott Deubel, Deputy General Counsel Paul Prezioso, Legal Counsel Sheera
Hobfoll, Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Office Manager and
Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, and Deputy
Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Docksite Supervisor Linda Mandat, Docksite
Supervisor John Feld, Lieutenant Ruben Flores, Master Sergeant Emmanuel Flores, Gaming
Special Agent Fernando Cepeda.
At 11:05 AM, the meeting was called to order. Member Dunn moved that the Board retire to
closed session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), (15) and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the items listed on the
closed session agenda relating to personnel, investigations concerning applicants and licensees,
litigation and hearing requests, Staff recommendations and closed session minutes. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 12:49 PM, Member Dunn moved to adjourn the closed session and return to open session the
next day, Thursday, September 21, 2017, at approximately 9am. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
On Thursday, September 21, 2017 the Board reconvened the Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the
Illinois Gaming Board on the 5th floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois at
9:04 AM. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre,
Thomas Dunn and Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of August 24, 2017. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY


Jerry Prosapio – Self Exclusion Program

PROPOSED RULEMAKING

 

Deputy General Counsel, James Pellum

Member Robinson moved to amend Riverboat Gambling Rule 750 (Establishment of a SelfExclusion List) and Riverboat Gambling Rule 780 (Request for Removal from the SelfExclusion List) by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration


(Board Action / Vote Required)

CEOC, LLC – Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's
Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc.
d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino – Request for Initial Consideration of
Refinancing Transaction, Request for Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule and
Request for Final Consideration of Refinancing Transaction

Member Dunn moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule and approve the request by
CEOC, LLC to enter into an incremental term loan of $260 million resulting in a total credit
facility amount not to exceed $1.695 billion, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern
Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino, subject to the final
executed documents being provided to the Illinois consistent with those disclosed to the Board.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Cydnel Trias – Key Person of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino
Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino – Senior System Analyst

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Cydnel D. Trias suitable as a Key Person for both
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino, and Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel in his position as
Caesars Entertainment Corporation's Senior System Analyst. Member Dunn seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Karl Stingily – Key Person of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino
Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino – VP & Chief Audit Executive

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Karl O. Stingily III suitable as a Key Person for
both Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino, and Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel in his position as
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Audit Executive of Caesars Entertainment

2

 Corporation and Caesars Enterprise Service, LLC. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Travis Hankins – Level 1 of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers
Casino & Hotel – Director of Operations

Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Travis J. Hankins as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in his position as Senior Director of Operations for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.


Sherry Wessel – Level 1 of Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc.
d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino – VP & GM

Member Dunn moved that the Board approve Sherry Lynne Wessel as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Senior Vice President and General Manager for Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration

(Board Action / Vote Required)

 Interblock U.S.A. L.C. – Initial Supplier License
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Supplier License to Interblock U.S.A. L.C. for a
period of one year, expiring in September 2018, and find the following individuals and entities
suitable as Key Persons:
• Joze Pececnik
• John Connelly IV
• Todd Sims
• Elektroncek Group B.V.; and
• Interblock d.d.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Edward Pitoniak – Key Person of VICI Properties 1, LLC – CEO

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Edward Baltazar Pitoniak suitable as a Key Person
in his position as Chief Executive Officer for VICI Properties 1, LLC. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials

3

 Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the identified 55 Level 2 Occupational
Licensees and 84 Level 3 Occupational Licensees, and authorize the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to:
1. Ashton Borden; and
2. Jerome Flowers
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests for Hearing and Requests to Reapply
Member Dunn moved that the Board rescind its August 2017 denial of Mr. Brandon Steffens’
license application, and grant him an Occupational License. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson moved that Board revoke the Occupational License of Heather F Tazelaar for
her misconduct while employed at Hollywood Casino Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed
within that time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Robin D. Brown
for her misconduct while on duty at Hollywood Casino Aurora, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed
within that time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the
occupational licenses of the following individuals:







Bai Lin Zhu
Timothy C. Adams
Michael W. Fan
Jeffery R. Haines
Wiwit Siwapornpitak; and
Quinn Tang

for their involvement in gambling at Rivers Casino, said actions to take effect 21 days from the
dates of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of David A. Taroyan,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to

4

 the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to amend Disciplinary
Complaint DC-17-06 previously issued to Penn National Gaming, Inc. as a Key Person for HC
Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino
Aurora, to include additional counts as warranted; and increase the fine amount to $750,000, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Settlements of Disciplinary Complaints
Member Dunn moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to enter into a
settlement agreement with Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino with
respect to DC-17-12 in the amount of $75,000, and to administratively dismiss the complaint
against this licensee. Member Alejandre seconded the vote. The motion passed three to one with
Member Robinson voting against it.
At 9:43 AM, Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Secretary to the Administrator/Board

5

 