MINUTES OF TELEPHONIC MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
February 25, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Telephonic Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on February 25,
2004. The Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at
160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, William Fanning, and Gary Peterlin. Member William Dugan was present
telephonically.
The meeting convened at 10:27 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Peterlin
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At approximately 3:00 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board reconvene into Open
session. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 3:05 P.M. Member Dugan was present
telephonically.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would be selecting the three finalist today.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked all of the seven entities that bidded for the Emerald license.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked the Illinois Gaming Board’s staff for all of the hard work
and countless hours that they put in to review the information that was submitted by the
seven respondents.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board believes that the process was handled in a fair,
open and competitive manner. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Staff and the Board has
given a great deal of weight and consideration to all of the proposals. Chairman

 Higginbottom stated that while reaching at their decision as to who should be the final three
bidders, the Board and Staff have given consideration to the economic development in
Illinois, the creation of jobs, and the communities that are economically deprived.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that this sale process was conducted in accordance with an
agreement that was negotiated by Attorney General Lisa Madigan and was approved by the
U.S. District court.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that as the Board moves forward in the process, the three
final bidders would be invited to make public presentations regarding their proposals on
Monday, March 1, 2004. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the presentations would be
held in the auditorium at the James R. Thompson Center. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that each bidder would be given two hours to make the presentation. Chairman
Higginbottom invited the public to attend. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on March 4,
2004, the Board would hold another Special meeting to receive public comments regarding
the presentations made by the three bidders. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on Friday,
March 5, 2004, the Board would identify one of the final bidders as the lead proposal.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that on Wednesday, March 10, 2004, there would be an
auction held among the three final bidders. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the auction
would be open to the public; however; seats are limited. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
the Board would meet on March 11, 2004 to review and discuss the auction and to conduct
its regular business. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on Monday, March 15, 2004, after
the Board has studied the last bid submitted by the final three bidders, the Board would
announce the winning bidder.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that it is the Board’s goal that after the process is concluded
in July, the 10th casino license would be up and operating within fifteen months of the sale of
the Emerald Casino, Inc.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked the legal and investigative staff for its hard work and long
hours to get to this point.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Interim Administrator Tamayo has done a terrific job in
making sure that this process is fair, open and competitive.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked his fellow Board members for the long hours and the
tremendous contributions that they made during the sales process.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on all of the events that that took place
leading up to today’s (February 25, 2004) selection of the final three bidders.
Joe Schorr, Kirkland & Ellis, who is the attorney for Emerald Casino, was present on behalf
of Emerald Casino to request that the Board identify three bidders that should be selected for
the auction that will occur on March 10, 2004.

2

 • Emerald Casino, Inc. - Request for Board approval to conduct auction on March 10, 2004
with 3 bidders selected by the Illinois Gaming Board, pursuant to side letter to Emerald’s
Fourth Amended and Restated Plan of Reorganization
Based on a detailed review of the seven bid proposals for the acquisition of Emerald Casino,
Inc. submitted on January 19, 2004 and having considered the analysis and recommendations
of staff, Member Clark moved that, pursuant to the Side Letter to Emerald’s Fourth
Amended Plan of Reorganization and the Bid Procedures incorporated therein, to
approve Emerald’s request to conduct an auction on March 10, 2004 and that the
following three entities participate in the auction.

1.
2.
3.

Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.;
Isle of Capri Casinos, Inc.; and
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment LLC.

Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Interim Administrator Tamayo prepared the final three bidders’ names to be selected for a
timeslot for the presentations on Monday, March 1, 2004. Each bidder’s name was submitted
into an envelope three times to increase the bidder’s chances. Interim Administrator Tamayo
stated that there are three timeslots: 9:30 A.M., 12:30 P.M., and 3:00 P.M.
After removing her jewelry and rolling up her sleeves, Interim Administrator Tamayo pulled
the names of the final three bidders to determine the time slots for each bidder.
The timeslots for the presentations are as follow:
9:30 A.M.- Midwest
12:30 P.M. - Isle of Capri
3:00 P.M. - Harrah’s Entertainment
At 3:23 Member Peterlin moved that the Board reconvene into Closed session. Member
Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 3:45 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

3

 