STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 11, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 P.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of the Board;
Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director;
Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD November 15, 2012

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the November 15, 2012 meeting. Member Washington
moved to approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from November 1 through November 30, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-12-109
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District 8/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services (Human Services)

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
September 26, 2012, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tarver issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) in
the above-referenced case recommending that the Board dismiss the petition. General Counsel Post, with the
assistance of Counsel Kazanjian, presented and discussed the issues of the Petitioner’s exceptions and recommended
that the Board uphold the ALJ’s RDO. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO. Member
Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-09-248
Teamsters Local Union #916/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
(Department of Transportation)
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
August 10, 2012 ALJ Owen issued a RDO in the above-referenced case finding that Respondent violated Section
10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. General Counsel Post then discussed the Respondent’s exceptions and the Charging
Party’s responses and recommended that the Board affirm in part and reverse in part the RDO. Member Brennwald
moved to accept the General Counsel’s recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-10-287
Midlothian Professional Fire Fighters Association, Local 3148, International Association of Fire
Fighters/Village of Midlothian
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that ALJ
Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO on August 3, 2012, finding that the Respondent violated sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the
Act. General Counsel Post then discussed the Respondent’s exceptions and the Charging party’s response and
recommended that the Board affirm the ALJ’s RDO. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the
RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-09-193
Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241/Pace West Division
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Hamburg-Gal’s RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case Nos. S-CA-11-115 and S-CA-11-131
Illinois Council of Police/Village of Sleepy Hollow
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-11-087
Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241, as successor to Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1561/Pace
Southwest Division
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Hamburg-Gal’s RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-CB-12-017
Village of Oak Lawn/Oak Lawn Professional Fire Fighters Association, Local 3405, International
Association of Fire Fighters
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Bell’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
8.
Case No. S-UC-12-009
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/County of DuPage (Department of Public
Works)
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Steven’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
9.
Case No. S-RC-13-003
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Village of Niles
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT
2

 Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of January, 2013.

3

 