MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS
SPECIAL MEETING
OF THE
RETIREMENT BOARD OF THE POLICEMEN'S
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND
HELD
THURSDAY – JULY 13, 2017

 Thursday, July 13, 2017, 11:00am
A meeting was held in order to pass on the sufficiency of nominating petitions of candidates for
one Trustee representative of Patrolman, Investigator or rank equivalent thereto, for the Retirement
Board of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago.
Present:
Absent:

Trustees Avila, Hamburger, Lappe, Maloney, Summers 5.
Trustees Brown, Hauser, Wright 3.

Also in attendance: Regina M. Tuczak, Executive Director; James Dollard, Comptroller; Kay
Hylton and Joseph Kosman of the Election Committee; and Board Counsel David Kugler.
The contents of this meeting were transcribed by Esquire Certified Shorthand Reporters and are
made part of this record.
Presiding: Recording Secretary Maloney
The meeting was called to order. The Executive Director reviewed the voting procedures and
election timeline with the Board members present. Ms. Tuczak noted that this is a Special
Election, as Trustee Michael Lappe will be retiring, mandatory retirement, effective July 23,
2017. The Pension Statutes require that an election be held within thirty days of the vacancy.
Executive Director Tuczak informed the Board that nominating petitions have been filed by four
candidates for the Trustee member of Patrolman, Investigator or rank equivalent thereto, for the
Retirement Board of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago.
The Election Committee members have reviewed the petitions submitted. Ms. Hylton indicated
that fifty or more signatures were verified as active police officers for each candidate. Draft
copies of the ballots were distributed for review by Board members.
With respect to the Trustee member of Patrolman, Investigator or rank equivalent thereto, based
upon the validations of the petition submissions and timing of the submissions, the Election
Committee has a proposed ballot which lists Tom Beyna first on the ballot; Kathy McCall
second on the ballot; Steve Robbins listed third; and Mike Shields listed fourth.
There were no further public comments.
It was moved by Trustee Avila and seconded by Trustee Summers, that the submitted ballot for
Trustee member of Patrolman, Investigator or rank equivalent thereto, be approved:
ROLL CALL

For:
Against:
Absent:

Avila, Hamburger, Lappe, Maloney, Summers 5.
0.
Brown, Hauser, Wright 3.

It was moved by Trustee Summers and seconded by Trustee Avila, that the Special Board
Meeting of July 13, 2017, be adjourned.
ROLL CALL

For:
Against:
Absent:

Avila, Hamburger, Lappe, Maloney, Summers 5.
0.
Brown, Hauser, Wright 3.

 