STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on December 12, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive
Director; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members. The Board observed a moment of
silence for Member Don Hubert, who died November 28, 2006.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 14, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the November 14, 2006 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from November 1 through November 30, 2006. He distributed the report to the
Board for review, and the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights,
noting that during the month, the agency issued one certification pursuant to a representation election and
one certification pursuant to a majority interest petition. The Executive Director also noted that with
regard to unfair labor practice cases, the agency issued three administrative dismissals.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
L-RC-06-013
County of Cook, Bureau of Health Services/American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, Council 31, consolidated with
L-RC-06-016
County of Cook, Bureau of Health Services/Chicago Joint Board, Local 200, consolidated
with
L-RC-06-023
County of Cook, Bureau of Health Services/Chicago Joint Board, Local 200

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the
Administrative Law Judge's Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to
review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
L-CA-06-096
Rosie Truesdale/County of Cook, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a
Dismissal on October 30, 2006, with an appeal filed. The General Counsel recommended that the Board
uphold the dismissal, as the charge was untimely. Member Sadlowski moved to accept the General
Counsel's recommendation. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion, the Chairman and Member Sadlowski decided to postpone review of the fiscal
and legislative reports until the joint panel session, scheduled for 12:30 p.m. Thereafter, the Board
discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Member of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 16th day of January, 2007.

2

 