STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on August 14, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the
Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 10, 2012

Chairman Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the July 10, 2012 meeting. Member
Anderson moved to approve the minutes of the July 10, 2012 meeting. Member Lewis seconded. The
Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from July 1 to July 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-11-038
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ County of
Cook

Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call the case, who did so, noting that no party filed
exceptions to ALJ Tarver's RDO, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own
motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-CA-12-040
Gerard Henderson/ County of Cook
Chairman Gierut called the case. Counsel Kazanjian presented and stated that on May 24, 2012, Acting
Executive Director Post dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party, in which Charging Party alleged the
Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Counsel Kazanjian
reviewed the issues presented by Charging Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board accept the
Acting Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the Acting
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. L-CB-12-038
Gerard Henderson/ Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council
Chairman Gierut called the case. Counsel Kazanjian presented and stated that on May 24, 2012, Acting
Executive Director Post dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party, in which Charging Party alleged the
Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Counsel Kazanjian
reviewed the issues presented by Charging Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board accept the
Acting Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the Acting
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. L-CB-12-041
Darryl Carter/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council
31
Chairman Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post presented and stated that on April 18, 2012, the
Executive Director dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party in which Charging Party alleged that
Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post
reviewed the issues presented by Charging Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board accept the
Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the Acting
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board opted to review the fiscal and legislative reports in the joint panel meeting scheduled for 10:30
a.m. on this date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the
Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of September, 2012.

2

 