STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 6, 2007

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive
Director; Ellen Strizak, Acting General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 16, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the January 16, 2007 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from January 1 through January 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-06-096
James Frazier/County of Cook

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the Board declined to hear oral argument
in this matter. Chairman Gallagher and Board Member Sadlowski discussed instances in which oral
argument might be helpful. Acting General Counsel Ellen Strizak noted that the Executive Director
issued a dismissal on October 12, 2006, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no evidence to support the charge. The
Board then proceeded to discuss the matter. At the conclusion thereof, Chairman Gallagher moved to
accept the Acting General Counsel's recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman noted that other than the scheduling of the budget message, there was very little to report
regarding legislative matters. The Chairman then distributed the year-to-date fiscal report, the report on
estimated year-end account balances, the "actual v. budgeted" year-to-date report, and other financial
reports prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand. The Chairman and Member Sadlowski then
discussed various aspects of the agency's fiscal reports, noting recent, unexpected expenses in connection
with the Chicago office lease and pending litigation. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a
need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.

 VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Member of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of April, 2007.

2

 