STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 13, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Charles Anderson, Member of the
Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan, Ellen M. Strizak, Colleen M. Harvey, and Philip M. Kazanjian acted as counsel
to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the February 20, 2008 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from February 1 through April 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board for review,
and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-RC-04-004
Cook County Coordinating Nurses Ass'n, American Fed. of First Responders/County of Cook

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Wells' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-RC-07-002
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the County's exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's
determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Anderson moved
to reject the ALJ's RDO and instead, dismiss the petition. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion.
Member Anderson and Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a voice vote. Chairman Gallagher opposed.
3.
Case No. L-CA-08-002
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 222/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
February 22, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Sadlowski seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. L-CA-08-077
American Guild of Musical Artists/Chicago Park District
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
February 22, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Harvey reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Sadlowski moved to reject the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the
motion. Member Anderson and Member Sadlowski passed the motion by a voice vote. Chairman Gallagher
opposed.
5.
Case No. L-CA-08-021
Frederick Turner/Chicago Transit Authority
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
March 3, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Sadlowski seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that the legislature was primarily consumed with passing a budget and that Fiscal
Officer Hildebrand would email the most recent fiscal report to the Board during the week of May 18.
Member Sadlowski made a motion to leave open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski made a motion to go into executive
session to discuss personnel matters as related to the most recent auditor's report. Member Anderson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the
discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to leave executive session. Member Anderson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of June, 2008.

2

 