MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the August 6, 2014 Meeting Reconvened from the
July 22, 2014 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature; as such, they
are subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call.
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Additional Trustees Present:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair), Patrick McFadden, Diahann Goode
Brent Lewandowski and Alexis Herrera
Patrick Nestor
Nickol Hackett, Executive Director; Staff: Rachelle
Howliet, Brenda Deming, Rachel Farris
Jessica Streit, and Kirsten Goad, Segal

Public Comment.
Trustee Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee. There being no public
comment, the meeting was reconvened from July 22, 2014.
1. Ms. Deming updated the committee that additional claims data and member enrollment locations in
the HMO plans were distributed to the finalists the previous week. This allowed all bidders to ensure the
best network mapping for disruption purposes in submitting their BAFO.
Ms. Streit of Segal reviewed with the Committee the best and final offers of CIGNA, UnitedHealthcare,
and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois. The offers are summarized as follows:
UnitedHealthcare proposed a flat administrative fee with no increases for the three year term of the
contract and increased their annual wellness credit by 17%. CIGNA offered a one month fee holiday and

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 negotiated a higher discount for Advocate systems that resulted in savings of 4% to 6% annually on
services at Advocate providers. Blue Cross and Blue Shield proposed to keep rates for PPO
administration at the 2014 rate of $49.58 per non-Medicare and $.80 increase for the HMO fees.
The Committee then discussed which of the three proposals best met their criteria of savings and
minimal member disruption. After reviewing the concept of having a ‘gatekeeper’ in the HMO plans,
where it is required that members have service referrals, the Trustees felt that this impedes care in some
instances and decided that an arrangement would be selected that did not require referrals.
The trustees noted that UHC’s offering with their Choice and Choice Plus networks would meet the
Fund’s needs as it would allow the Fund to reduce its’ offering to one HMO which current members
could select, having all major hospitals intact. This option allows freedom to choose any network
provider without selection of a primary care doctor. Total annual savings over the current arrangement
are estimated to be $2,726,960. The Trustees discussed that based on cost and network, the UHC
proposal provided the most favorable terms.
Trustee Lewandowski moved that the proposal for services by UHC be recommended to the Board at the
August 7, 2014 meeting. Trustee Goode seconded the motion.
2. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode to adjourn the meeting.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 