MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
SPECIAL MEETING NO. 2017-11-01
NOVEMBER 6, 2017
A special meeting of the Retirement Board of the Municipal Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit Fund was held in the Fund offices on November 6, 2017. The meeting was called
to order at 11:07 a.m.
Roll call:
Trustee Guest
Trustee Johnson
Trustee McMahon

Present
Present
Present

A quorum is present.
Additional attendees include the following individuals:
Mr. James Mohler, Executive Director, Ms. Mary Patricia Burns, Fund Counsel, Ms.
Sarah Boeckman, Burke, Burns & Pinelli, Ms. Stacey Ruffolo, Project Coordinator and
Mr. Robert Molaro, RSM Associates, Legislative Liaison.
There were no requests to address the Board.
Discussion Regarding PA 100-0023
This topic was discussed in closed session.
The Board moved into closed session at 11:08 a.m. in accordance with 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(11) in order to discuss issues related to probable litigation involving the Fund.
Roll Call:
Trustee Guest
Trustee Johnson
Trustee McMahon

Aye
Aye
Aye

Motion carried.
The Board moved into open session at 12:38 p.m. on a motion by Trustee Johnson.
Seconded by Trustee McMahon. Carried by a voice vote.
Consideration and Possible Action Relating to A Letter to Annuitants Regarding
Retiree Healthcare Plan year 2018
The Board directed the Executive Director to work with Fund Counsel to prepare and
send a letter to Fund annuitants regarding healthcare options available through the City
sponsored Blue Cross Blue Shield plan for 2018.
The Board directed the Fund’s Legislative Liaison to prepare draft legislation on behalf
of the Fund to address the concerns raised regarding the revision to the Municipal Code
implemented in Public Act 100-0023.

 The Board directed Fund Counsel to investigate issues related to legal action as a result
of issues discussed in Closed Session.
The Board President requested that “Rate of Return” be a topic placed on the next
Regular Meeting agenda.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Trustee McMahon made a
motion to adjourn at 12:43 p.m. Seconded by Trustee Johnson.
Carried: Ayes – Trustee Guest, Trustee Johnson, Trustee McMahon and Trustee
Summers.

 