MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
January 3, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, January 3, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle
for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler and James Sullivan.
At 9:40 A.M. Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat
Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Personnel matters;
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:35 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Approval of Minutes
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of December 8, 2005 and the open session minutes of its Regular Meeting of
December 8, 2005. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by role call.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there will be a General Manager’s Meeting on February 15,
2006 the day after our Regular Board Meeting, which is scheduled for Tuesday, February 14,
2006. Administrator Ostrowski stated that our March 14, 2006 Board meeting has been switched
and now will take place March 6, 2006. Administrator Ostrowski stated that a presentation on
Self-Exclusion with a series of speakers will take place today.

 Public Commentary
Kathy Gilroy stated that she is speaking as a member of the public. She is concerned about the
implementation of the self-exclusion program. Ms. Gilroy stated that she takes exception to the
statement that the responsibility for staying out of Illinois casinos rest solely on the person and
not the Illinois Gaming Board or Illinois Riverboat Casinos. Why is there a self-exclusion
program implemented? Ms. Gilroy stated that the Board is admitting responsibility by having
such a program. Ms. Gilroy discussed the definition of a disabled person. Ms. Gilroy asked
exactly what is the State’s responsibility to the problem gambler. Ms. Gilroy stated that she has
appeared before the Board 4 times on the issue. Ms. Gilroy stated that the system is not fullproof. Ms. Gilroy spoke to Member Gardner’s concerns about privacy. She went on to say that
a gambler has no right to privacy. Ms. Gilroy stated that a new method is needed, possibly a
biometric method or possibly fingerprints - referring to Cub Foods “Pay by Touch”. Ms. Gilroy
stated that a fingerprint method can be implemented on casino loyalty cards or be stand-alone.
Ms. Gilroy stated that she has brought Marie Lavin, an expert on this technology.
Chairman Jaffe stated that this is pubic commentary and people must ask to be included on the
list and the expert was not included. The Chairman stated that he would allow Ms. Lavin to
speak for a couple of minutes.
Marie Lavin explained the technology of the fingerprint method.
Richard Hyde, Mayor of the City of Waukegan, stated that he wanted the opportunity to
introduce the City of Waukegan to the Board. He stated that he is aware of the process of the
Board to insure the integrity of gaming in the State of Illinois. He stated that Waukegan needs to
reclaim its status as a center for jobs and economic activity. He stated that he understands that
there is no process in place yet for the re-issuance of the 10th license. Mayor Hyde stated that
Waukegan is the kind of community that the legislature had in mind when it passed the
Riverboat Gambling Act and it would like to be kept in mind as a potential candidate when the
time comes. Mayor Hyde went on to state the history of the City of Waukegan and the necessary
steps Waukegan took to put in a bid for the last casino license available for the State of Illinois.
Mayor Hyde stated that Waukegan had the highest bid for the license and was not selected.
Mayor Hyde stated the unemployment statistics for the City of Waukegan. Mayor Hyde stated
that Waukegan would share tax revenues with the surrounding communities if it was awarded the
license. Mayor Hyde stated that the geographical location of Waukegan would bring new
customers.
Chairman Jaffe stated that as of now the license is “tied up”, but when the time comes the Board
will act in a timely manner in reference to the decision of the 10th license.
Board Policy Items
Gene O’Shea initiated the presentation for self-exclusion. Mr. O’Shea introduced the guest
speakers as follows: Tom Grey, National Coalition Against Gambling, Wayne Burdick,
Outreach Foundation of Illinois, Thomas Swoik, Illinois Casio Gaming Association, Kevin
2

 Mullaly, Executive Director of the Missouri Gaming Commission and Jennifer Shatley, Harrah’s
Entertainment. The last speaker was Christopher Anderson, founder and director of Gambling
Recovery Center in Evanston. Mr. Anderson was appointed by Governor Blagojevich to serve as
a consultant and expert to the Board on Problem and Pathological Gambling issues. Kelly Gage
from the Department of Human Services was to be here but was unable to make it due to a
conflict in scheduling.
Mr. O’Shea stated that as of today there are a total of 3,046 persons enrolled in the IGB program.
Since the inception there have been 440 incidents involving enrollees returning to the casinos
and being discovered. A total of $244,000 in seizures has been collected. Mr. O’Shea stated that
Member Gardner was eager to learn how other states operate their self-exclusion programs. Mr.
O’Shea gave a small synopsis of the programs in Iowa, Indiana, and Michigan. The IGB has 24
enrollment sites in Illinois. Illinois utilizes more enrollment sites than any other jurisdiction in
the nation that offers a self-exclusion program. Mr. O’Shea stated that the system that was
discussed by Kathy Gilroy is not fool proof. Mr. O’Shea stated that the Casino Queen,
Hollywood and Par-A-Dice casinos have installed a product known as Redi-Check which reads
the bar codes on the back of a person’s driver’s license. Security personnel will swipe the
license of any person who appears to be under 30 years of age through the Redi-Check system.
Member Gardner stated that the Board observed the license scanning device used at the Casino
Queen. The device did not work if the renewal sticker for the driver’s license was blocking the
bar code. Mr. O’Shea stated that Dave Lienard provided a CD if anyone was interested in
viewing it on the description of the Redi-Check system.
Rev. Tom Grey stated that the regulatory body has three responsibilities. One is to the owners,
one to the taxpayer, and the third is to the patron. Rev. Grey commented on the speakers. He
also suggested that Harrah’s is the leader in hooking people. He stated that the Harrah’s voucher
mishap increased their revenue considerably. Rev. Grey stated that casino profits are based on
the gambler’s losses. Rev. Grey stated that the gambler does not take his money and go home, he
takes his winnings and gambles some more. Rev. Grey stated that the Illinois Gaming Board
needs to take additional steps beyond self-exclusion to further protect pathological patrons and
their families. Rev. Grey asked that the casinos be required to deposit for collection all
negotiable instruments by the next banking day following receipt with no extension of credit and
that the Board eliminate markers.
Wayne Burdick was next to speak. Mr. Burdick stated that self-exclusion is not the first step for
the gambler, it is one of the last resorts. Mr. Burdick stated that the Outreach Foundation is very
big on public awareness and education and also provides direct help to the gambler. He has
stated that the self-exclusion program has enabled the Outreach Foundation to provide services
that would not otherwise be available. The Outreach Foundation now has a counselor that can
speak to people and provide on-going counseling. Mr. Burdick stated that whatever the Board
can do for a problem or compulsive gambler is a good thing. Mr. Burdick stated that the selfexclusion program is a great way to help the gambler.
Tom Swoik was next to address the Board. Mr. Swoik stated that since February 1996 the
Illinois Casio Gaming Association has supported the 1800Gambler hotline. He also stated that
there was an additional $50,000 grant from the eight casino members of the association and the
3

 Grand Victoria Casino. The program was expanded to include two new components; the Chance
to Change Program and the Problem Gambling Education Training Program. Mr. Swoik stated
that the Association has always supported the self-exclusion program. Mr. Swoik stated that selfexclusion is one step in the process of assisting the problem gambler. Mr. Swoik stated that it is
not and was not intended to be the answer to problem gambling. Mr. Swoik stated that the term
“self-excluded” relays the intent of the process. The process gives individuals a means of helping
themselves with their problem gambling. Mr. Swoik went on to state that the National Center for
Responsible Gaming is developing a guide-line for the self-exclusion programs. Mr. Swoik
suggested that the information be reviewed before we try and fix something that may not be
broken. Mr. Swoik stated that the problem gambler must be held accountable for his or her
actions.
Member Gardner inquired as to the price of the readers for the Redi-Check system. Gene O’Shea
stated that the price is about $14,000.00.
Kevin Mullaly introduced himself as the Executive Director of the Missouri Gaming
Commission. Mr. Mullaly is the author of the original state sponsored voluntary exclusion
program that was adopted by Missouri in the mid 90’s. Mr. Mullaly congratulated Gene O’Shea
for doing a wonderful job for administering the Illinois Gaming Board program. Kevin Mullaly
stated that the self exclusion program was really fashioned on the advice of a gambler, who was a
professional man, who sought counseling and thought that a program should be started banning
people from casinos. Currently there are over 9,000 enrollees. Government opposed the program,
siting that personal responsibility should be sought. Mr. Mullaly stated that casinos are not
promising to keep them out, nor is the gaming commission promising to keep them out. This is
merely a tool to help them in the course of their recovery and provide them and their family with
information and free treatment. Mr. Mullaly stated that one of the comments was that it should
be relatively easy to sign up for the program. That sentiment is understood, but major life
decisions are not easy. Mr. Mullaly also stated that there are certain logistical and administrative
procedures that need to be addressed. The gambler needs to have the program thoroughly
explained to them so that they understand it in full. Mr. Mullaly also stated that he would not put
too much stock in scanning driver’s licenses. Gamblers can get other people’s driver’s licenses,
and the most addicted and the most serious of those affected will find ways to defeat any system
that you have. Mr. Mullaly stated that this is an impulse control disorder, the craving is too big,
we have to concentrate on good mental health and fix the problem from the inside out.
Mr. Mullaly stated that Harvard University is conducting a study of the Missouri Voluntary
Exclusion Program. Harvard is doing actual interviews with people who have been excluded in
Missouri. Look for the results later this year.

Mr. Mullaly also stated that as a regulator he shares the sentiment about the importance of
the independence of the gaming regulatory body. Problems seem to arise when political
interference comes into play in the gaming industry. Mr. Mullaly stated that he thinks the
success of the Missouri Gaming Commission is because of its independence.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he appreciates Mr. Mullaly’s sentiments and that the Board’s next
agenda will be the independence of the Board. He is very grateful to have served on the

4

 Board with the most delightful members who are dedicated to the concept that this Board
will be free from any political interference. Chairman Jaffe stated that there have been some
frustrations on the Board’s part, and they will be talking about them shortly, due to the fact
that they cannot bow to political whims, nor will they.
Charles Gardner asked why our numbers for enrollment are so small compared to Missouri’s.
Mr. Mullaly stated that he feels it was to due to the effectiveness of their alliance. He stated
that Missouri has an organization called the Missouri Alliance to Curb Problem Gambling
which consists of the Missouri Department of Mental Health, the Gaming Commission, the
Lottery, the Missouri Riverboat Gaming Association and the Missouri Council on Problem
Gambling, with coordinated activities on education, outreach and promotion. Educating the
population is the key. Member Gardner also asked about Missouri sharing lists between
neighboring states. Mr. Mullaly stated that this is considered confidential mental health
information; the gambler must agree that it could be shared with other states. Mr. Mullaly
also stated that the Gaming Commission of Missouri is getting ready to make their first
major change in the Rules. There will be a less than life time option whereas now exclusion
is for life. People will be allowed to re-enter and go through a re-entry program where they
will have to attend a life skills class. Member Gardner stated that he would like to encourage
Missouri to share the information with Illinois as another feature of the Missouri program.
Jennifer Shatley with Harrah’s Entertainment was the next speaker. Ms. Shatley went on to
state that Harrah’s was one of the first casinos to have a training program for responsible
gaming based on an issue that affected a friend of the CEO, Phil Satrey. Ms. Shatley stated
that individual exclusion programs were operated at many of the casinos. Ms. Shatley stated
that in 1998 Harrah’s formalized its self exclusion program to be a brand wide exclusion. If
someone excludes at one of Harrah’s properties they are excluded across the entire network
of properties. Ms. Shatley stated that the casinos need to make sure that they do not market
self exclusion patrons by removing their names from mailing lists as to ensure they won’t
return to the property. Ms. Shatley stated that a new training program for Harrah’s
employees has been implemented that re-enforces procedures for having self excluded
patrons removed from the casino when they are identified on property with specialized
training for the cashiering and player card department.
Christopher Anderson, Director Gambling Recovery Center, Evanston, Illinois was the last
speaker. Mr. Anderson explained how he was approached by the Governor’s office to take
the position. Mr. Anderson stated that this Board seems to have a concern about the losing
side of the coin and taking action. Mr. Anderson stated how he was involved in initiating the
HELP line, at first answering from the living room of his home back in the early 1990’s. Mr.
Anderson stated how today he works as a psychotherapist, treating people with gambling
addictions for the last 20 years. Mr. Anderson stated that doing this is a part of his own
healing in the grief and frustration that he caused his own family while gambling in the
securities market. Mr. Anderson stated that he was concerned with being too far removed
from what the real issue is; it’s not entertainment, its not gaming, its gambling pure and
simple. Mr. Anderson stated that if we are to deal with gambling in Illinois we need to give
equal weight to the losing side of the wager. Mr. Anderson stated that every addict has their
5

 responsibility to do their part. For the gambler there seems to be no consequence on the part
of the casino industry. Any program that is put in place needs to have mutual responsibility,
mutual accountability. Mr. Anderson stated that by the time someone comes to the point of
excluding themselves from a casino they are at the end of the line. Mr. Anderson stated that
this seems like we are picking up the pieces after the damage. What about preventing this
situation? Mr. Anderson made reference to the case pending where the casino is going after
an individual for $10,000 in bad checks and markers. Why are the casinos able to lend
people money to gamble with. Mr. Anderson stated that in his experience, people who do
not have gambling problems are not writing bad checks to casinos. Casinos explain that
“markers” are a courtesy to the customer. Mr. Anderson stated that gambling with borrowed
money from the casino is part of the problem.
OWNERS LICENSEE ITEMS
Empress Casino Joliet – James J. Bjes, Director of Security – Level One Investigation
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve James J. Bjes as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Empress
Casino Joliet. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Casino Rock Island – James L. Milne, Vice President & General Manager – Level One
Investigation
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board approve James L. Milne as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Casino
Rock Island. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVAL & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’s & 3’s
Michael Fries, Chief Legal Counsel, recommended that 21 applications for license Level 2
and 137 applications for Occupational License Level 3 be approved. Chief Counsel Fries
also stated that the Board issue Notices of Denial to two individuals, Pamela Harris and
Gregory Smith.
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 21 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 137 applications for
an Occupational License, Occupational Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to the following two applicants for Level 3 licenses, each of whom previously
received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or
provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:

6

 1. Pamela Harris; and
2. Gregory Smith.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Timothy Keller – Maintenance Worker
Chief Counsel Fries stated that there is one complaint on the agenda for disciplinary action
against Mr. Timothy Keller. Mr. Keller is an occupational license level 3 at the Casino Rock
Island. Surveillance tape from May 26, 2005 revealed a female patron unknowingly drop some
money on the floor and leave the area. Mr. Keller then dropped a towel on the floor next to the
money and proceeded to pick up the towel and the money, and then pocketed the money.

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Timothy Keller, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to his taking money from the floor of the Casino
Rock Island in violation of the casino’s Internal Control System.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke Mr. Keller’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORTS
Disciplinary Action of Kimberly Johnson, DC-02-14
Chief Counsel Fries stated that the above matter was remanded to the Board from the Circuit
Court of Cook County for reconsideration of a final order relative to an occupational licensee
by the name of Kimberly Johnson. The Board had previously entered a final order revoking
her license and the Board has met in its quasi judicial role to reconsider that pursuant to the
parameters put on it by the Circuit Court.
In Re The Disciplinary Action of Kimberly Johnson, DC-02-14
Member Sullivan moved for the entry of the following Final Board Order relative to the
disciplinary action against Kimberly Johnson: (Read attached order) Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 STATE OF ILLINOIS
IN THE ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF:

)
)
)
)

KIMBERLY JOHNSON

DC-02-14

FINAL BOARD ORDER

This Matter comes to the Illinois Gaming Board (the Board) for final action
pursuant to remand from the Circuit Court of Cook County for reconsideration of the
Board’s December 9, 2004 Final Order revoking Kimberly Johnson’s Level 2
Occupational License. The Board reviewed the record and considered whether a sanction
other than revocation is appropriate. Based on the record, including factors of mitigation,
the Board orders that Kimberly Johnson’s Level 2 Occupational License is suspended for
30 days without pay to be served within 120 days hereof in a minimum of 5 day
increments. The Board further orders Kimberly Johnson to provide documentation to the
Board reflecting her suspension without pay.
So Ordered.
Date: January 3, 2006
This is a final administrative order subject to the Administrative Review Act.
_____________________
Aaron Jaffe, Chairman
_________________________
Charles R. Gardner
_________________________
Eugene Winkler
_________________________
Joseph E. Moore Jr.
_________________________
James E. Sullivan

8

 At 3:30 p.m. Member Gardner moved to return to closed session. Member Moore seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 