MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
April 23, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, April 23, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois.
The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 9:27 A.M. Present were Chairman
Don Tracy, Members Lee Gould and Hector Alejandre. Member Dunn participated via
telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 26, 2015. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARYMichael Tibbs: Miller, Hall & Triggs, LLC – addressed the Board pertaining to a Truck Stop
location in East Peoria who he claimed does not qualify as a truck stop.
Taft Stettinius & Hollister – an attorney addressed the Board pertaining to a truck stop
locationin East Peoria who he claimed does qualify as a truck stop.
Joe Davern – Video Gaming Establishment license holder addressed the Board.
Melynda Litchfied – National Victims Advocate – addressed the Board referencing problem
gambling.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS • Renewals:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to renew the following
Terminal Operator Licenses effective April 23, 2015 for a period of one year,
expiring in April 2016: Advantage Gaming, LLC; Da Route LLC; Grand River
Jackpot, LLC; Great Lakes Vending Corporation; Lucky Lincoln Gaming,
LLC; Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC; R.A.W. Gaming, Inc.; Schaffner
Gaming LLC; Sinbad’s Castle Arcade, Ltd. Stellar Gaming LLC; T’s Gaming
LLC and Velasquez Gaming, LLC.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

 Member Gould addressed the licensees stating that all information must be received
in a timely manner when submissions are made for renewals or be subject to
discipline.
•

Renewals Retroactive to January 2015
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to renew the following
Terminal Operator Licenses retroactive to January 2015 for a period of one
year, expiring in January 2016: Heck Gaming, LLC; Illinois Gaming Systems,
LLC and Metro East Video Gaming, Inc. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to approve 32 Terminal
Handler Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS • Video Gaming Location License Approvals & Denials:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve 83 Video Gaming
Location Licenses and to deny 58 location applicants, which will be attached in a
list to the Final Motions posted on the Board’s public website and which will
each be sent an individual notice of denial. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion by a 3-1 vote. Member Dunn voted No.
•

Additional Applications:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to approve an additional
59 Video Gaming Location Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion by a 3-1 vote. Member Dunn voted No.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING & REQUESTS TO REAPPLY• Requests for Hearing
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to deny the request for
hearing from MAA Corporation as it has failed to establish a prima facie case
for hearing; deny the request for hearing from Local 37 Inc. as moot; deny the
requests for hearing from Dennis Greco, Brian White, Jason Rowell, Andrew
Von Vogt, and James Dubois as they do not comply with the requirements of
Rule 1800.615; and grant the requests for hearing from Vonch LLC and Lenny’s
Food N Fuel, LLC. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Requests to Reapply
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to grant the request to
reapply from Local 37 Inc. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS • Terminal Handlers
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to issue Disciplinary
Complaints to revoke the Terminal Handler licenses of Gary Allen Tibor and
Christopher Clemons for their conduct involving theft, said actions to take effect
21 days from the dates of service of the Complaints unless Answers are properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Gambling Violations
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary
Complaints revoking the licenses of: Palestine Fraternal Order of Eagles #3329;
The 50 Yard Line, Inc.; Hill’s Tap, Inc.; and The Benevolent and Protective
Order of Elks Beardstown Lodge #1007 for their conduct in allowing illegal
gambling in their establishments said actions to take effect 21 days from the
dates of service of the Complaints unless fines are paid or Answers are properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Garcia Hospitality, Inc.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary
Complaint revoking the license of Garcia Hospitality, Inc. for failing to disclose
changes in ownership to the Board and for operating video gaming terminals
without a license said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless a fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Failure to Notify the Board of a Suspension of a Liquor License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary
Complaints revoking the licenses of: Roy Vanderpool Post #81; Venice
Properties, Inc. and The 3 Amigos Restaurant Inc. for allowing video gaming
terminal play while their liquor licenses had been suspended said actions to take
effect 21 days from the dates of service of the Complaints unless fines are paid or
Answers are properly filed within that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Jessica Hayes
Based on staff’s investigation Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary
Complaint to revoke the license of Jessica Hayes for failure to maintain a liquor
license said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed during that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

3

 •

Failure to Timely Submit Materials to the Board
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary
Complaints to fine the following licensees for their failure to timely submit
requested materials to the Board: Schaffner Gaming, LLC; Sinbad’s Castle
Arcade, Ltd.; Metro East Video Gaming, Inc.; Heck Gaming, LLC; and Illinois
Gaming Systems, LLC said actions to take effect 21 days from the dates of
service of the Complaints unless Answers are properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:08 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 