STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 14, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.— at One Natural Resources Way, Springfield, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn
Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel. Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General
Counsel; and staff members participated via telephone conference from Chicago.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 10, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the May 10, 2016, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-CA-15-032
North Riverside Fire Fighters, Local 2714/Village of North Riverside

The Board heard oral argument in the above mentioned case. After a short discussion, Member Coli made a motion
to leave open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the oral
argument case on the agenda, pursuant to Section 2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2009).
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at
the end of the discussion, Member Samolis made a motion to leave executive session. Member Snyder seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Samolis then made a motion to return to
open session. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. The
Board agreed to hold this case for further consideration and/or discussion.
2.

Case Nos. S-UC-16-032, 033, 034
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
Administrative Law Judge Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a Recommended Decision and Order dismissing the unit
clarification petitions. She then summarized the issues presented by the exceptions that were filed. After her
presentation, she gave the Board alternate recommendations. After discussion, Member Snyder moved to remand the
case for a hearing. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of July, 2016.

 