MINUTES OF TELEPHONIC MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 4, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on March 4, 2004. The
Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, William Dugan, Gary Peterlin and William Fanning.
The meeting convened at 8:30 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Fanning
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 9:35 A.M.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that on Monday, March 1, 2004, the three final bidders for
the Emerald Casino license made public presentations of their proposed purchase of the
license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that today (March 4, 2004), the Board is giving the
public an opportunity to make their comments as it relates to those proposals. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board would be able to take those comments into consideration
when determining who the appropriate entity is to purchase the license from Emerald Casino.
Interim Administrator Jeannette Tamayo briefed the public on how the Board will move
forward with the sales process. Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Rothschild,
Inc. would hold the auction of the sale of Emerald Casino on Wednesday, March 10, 2004 at
the offices of Kirkland and Ellis. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the auction is
open to the public with limited seating.
Public Commentary
Tom Grey – Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was
present. Mr. Grey urged the Board to vote that none of the final three bidders are acceptable.

 Rev. Glenn Stewart, Greater Waukegan Ministerial Association and United Ministries for
Christ, was present to express his opposition for awarding the 10th license to the City of
Waukegan.
James Blue, Citizens of Des Plaines Against Gambling Expansion, was present to express his
opposition for awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Rita L. Mullins, Mayor, Village of Palatine, was present to express her support for awarding
the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont. Mayor Mullins provided the Board with a written
statement from Susan Tutt-Parsons, President of La Grange Park. Ms. Tutt-Parsons’
statement expressed her opposition for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Don Rudny, Mayor, City of Gurnee, was present to express his opposition for awarding the
10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Suzanne D. Simpson, Supervisor, Warren Township, was present to express her opposition
for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Ralph Conner, Mayor, City of Maywood, was present to express his support for awarding the
10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Jessie Martinez, City of Stone Park, was present on behalf of the Mayor of Stone Park to
express the mayor’s support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Anthony Arredia, Mayor, City of Des Plaines, was present to express his support for
awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Laura Murphy, Alderman, City of Des Plaines, was present to express her support for
awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
James Prandini, Chief of Police, Des Plaines Police Department, was present to express his
support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Richard Ornberg, Executive Director, Des Plaines Chamber of Commerce & Industry, was
present to express his support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Dr. Robert H. Willis, Superintendent of Schools, City of Des Plaines, was present to express
his support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Tom Dore, Citizen of Des Plaines, was present to express his support for awarding the 10th
license to the City of Des Plaines.
Juan Rangel, Chief Executive Director, The United Neighborhood Organization, was present
to express his support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
2

 Tom Becker, Alderman, City of Des Plaines, was present to express his support for awarding
the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Nancy Duel, Anti Gambling Task Force, was present to express her opposition for expansion
of gambling in the City of Des Plaines.
Patricia A. Handy, President/CEO, Urban League of Lake County, was present to express her
support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Vincent Powers, Citizen of Des Plaines, was present to express his opposition for awarding
the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Thomas Kirkpatrick, President, Chicago Crime Commission, was present to express his
opposition for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Julie Sherman, Legislative Aide for Senator Terry Link, was present on behalf of Senator
Link to express Senator Link’s support for awarding the 10th license to the City of
Waukegan.
Bill Hood, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs for American Airlines, was present to
express his support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Gregg J. Horan, Managing Partner, Gibsons Steakhouse, was present to express his support
for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Roesemeont.
Rick Bryant, District Administrator for Congressman Jesse L. Jackson Jr., was present on
behalf of Congressman Jackson to express Congressman Jackson’s support for awarding the
10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Robert M. DeGraff, Citizen of Rosemont, was present to express his opposition for awarding
the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines and his support for awarding the 10th license to the
Village of Rosemont.
Christopher B. Burke, Village of Rosemont Consulting Engineer, was present to express his
support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Annette Langelund, Account Executive, Labor Temps., Inc., was present to express her
support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Pastor Charles Reid III, Bethesda Worship Center, was present to express his opposition for
awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Alan Fine, President, First Midwest Bank of Waukegan, was present to express his support
for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.

3

 Gary Dowty, Executive Vice President, Lake County Contractors Association, was present to
express his support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Thomas J. Tarpey, President, Village of River Grove, was present to express his support for
awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Donald J. Storino, Executive Director, West Central Municipal Conference, was present to
express his support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Amelia Regan, Executive Director, Rosemont Chamber of Commerce, was present to
express her support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
James Harness, Managing Partner, Best Western at O’Hare, was present to express his
support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Mike Jones, Regional Manager, RAM Restaurant & Brewery, was present to express his
support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Susan Prather, Prather Public Relations, was present to express her support for awarding the
10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
James A. Freeman, Executive Director, Stephens Convention Center, was present to express
his support for awarding the 10the license to the Village of Rosemont.
Mike Howley, Mayor, City of Hickory Hills, was present to express his support for awarding
the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Ed Schock, Mayor of the City of Elgin, was present to express his support for awarding the
10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Bill Bryan, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems, was present to
express his opposition for awarding the 10th license to the City of Des Plaines.
Pastor John Boryk, First United Methodist Church, was present to express his opposition for
awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont.
Alderman Samuel Cunningham, City of Waukegan, was present to express his support for
awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Thomas P. Villanova, President, Chicago & Cook County Building and Construction Trades
Council, was present to express his support for awarding the 10th license to the Village of
Rosemont.
Alberto Paracchini, Senior Vice President Banco Popular, was present to express his support
for awarding the 10th license to the Village of Rosemont
4

 Margaret Carrasco, President, Mexican-American Political Organization, was present to
express her support for awarding the 10th license to the City of Waukegan.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked everyone who presented.
At 12:15 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board reconvene to Closed session. Member
Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 1:24 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

5

 