MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 16, 1991

A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 9:30 A.M. on July 16,
1991, at 9511 West Harrison, Des Plaines, Illinois. The meeting was called
pursuant to the regular meeting schedule established on January 15, 1991, and
notice was duly and timely given to each Board member and to the general public
in conformity with Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr., Chairman; and
Board Members William J. Chamblin, Robert Gibson, J. Thomas Johnson, and Raymond
C. Niepert. Also in attendance were Morton E. Friedman, Administrator; Deputy
Administrators J. Thomas Hutchison, Joseph McQuaid and Marcy Wolf; Donna B.
More, Chief Legal Counsel; James A. Nelson, Secretary to the Board; other Board
staff, members of the media and the general public.
The meeting was called to order at 9:29 A.M. by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr.
The first order of business was approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting held on April 9, 1991. Member Chamblin moved that the minutes by
approved as submitted. Member Gibson seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business was the approval of the minutes of the Special
Meeting held on April 16, 1991. Member Chamblin moved that the minutes be
approved as submitted. Member Gibson seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business was a presentation of the Administrator's Report with
respect to Proposed Rulemaking. The Chairman recognized Administrator Morton E.
Friedman.
Mr. Friedman stated that members had received an advance copy of proposed
rulemaking and requested the Board's approval for filing this comprehensive set
of rules under the emergency rulemaking provisions of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act ("APA"). The Board was also asked to approve the
simultaneous filing of the rules under the general rulemaking provisions of the
APA. Mr. Friedman highlighted for the Board various provisions of the rules.
Chairman Kunkle recognized Member Johnson for discussion of the proposed rules
and rulemaking.
Member Johnson first asked procedural questions concerning proposed rules
previously filed under the Administrative Procedures Act. Mr. Friedman
responded that the previously filed proposed rules would be withdrawn.
Member Johnson moved that the Rule 3000.245 be amended by inserting the word
"number" in 3000.245(b)(2)(D). The motion was seconded by Mr. Chamblin. The
Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously.
Chairman Kunkle next recognized Member Niepert for questions.

 Member Niepert discussed concerns with respect to peace officers not being
allowed to carry weapons on the boat without first notifying the Board agent on
duty, Rule 3000.180. Member Niepert moved that rule 3000.180 be amended to
include the phrase "on duty within their jurisdiction" after the word "Peace
Officers" and strike the remainder of the sentence. Member Johnson seconded the
motion.
The Chairman called for the ayes and nays be hand vote as follows:
Member Chamblin
Member Gibson
Member Johnson
Member Niepert
Mr. Chairman

Aye
Aye
Aye
Aye
Nay

The motion was approved 4 ayes, 1 nay.
Member Niepert next moved that rule 3000.1010(c) be amended to read as follows:
"c) No Riverboat liquor license shall be issued to a holder of an Owner's
License an owner prior to the issuance of an Owner's License by the Board. The
holder of an Owner's License shall submit to the Commission a certified copy of
the Owner's License prior to issuance of a Riverboat Liquor license."
Member Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman recognized Member Johnson for further questions.
Mr. Johnson moved that rule 3000.235(b) be amended to clarify the conditions of
transferability of ownership interest and suggest the rule read as follows:
"b) Ownership Interest may not be Pledged. An ownership interest in an Owner's
License or in a business entity other than a publicly held business entity which
holds, either directly or indirectly, an Owner's License may not be pledged as
collateral to other than a regulated bank or savings and loan association
without leave of the Board."
Member Gibson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Gibson moved to authorize promulgation of the Emergency Rules as amended
and to withdraw the previously filed proposed rules. Member Niepert seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays by hand vote as follows:
Member Chamblin
Member Gibson
Member Johnson
Member Niepert
Mr. Chairman

Aye
Aye
Aye
Aye
Aye

The motion was approved.
Member Johnson moved that the proposed rules, identical to the Emergency Rules
as amended and just approved, be filed under the general rulemaking provisions
of the Administrative Procedure Act. Member Gibson seconded the motion. The

 Chairman called for the aye and nays.
voice vote.

The motion was approved unanimously by

The next item of business was the status reports of Round One designated owner
licenses. The Chairman recognized Mr. Thomas Long of the Alton Riverboat
Gambling Partnership. Mr. Long told the Board he was requested approval of the
Board for a different boat than originally proposed, a change in the
Partnership's capital structure and a new operational start date. Mr. Long
stated that with respect to the different boat, the enterprise had obtained a
smaller vessel for contractual and economic reasons. He stated that to achieve
the original financial impact that the smaller vessel would operate six cruises
each day. Mr. Long stated that along with the smaller boat, the partnership
planned to either build a second boat or proceed with the construction of the
original, larger boat. Mr. Long next informed the Board that shareholder Jimmy
Connors had left the partnership to continue his career in professional tennis
and that existing shareholder William McEnery had agreed to increase his
monetary commitment to the partnership to replace Mr. Connors. Lastly, Mr Long
asked the Board to approve an operational starting date window of August 9 - 15,
1991.
Mr. Long then answered questions regarding the Alton riverboat casino from
various Board members.
The Chairman next called on Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation and recognized
Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney for the corporation. Mr. Moore stated that Greater
Peoria was requesting that the Board approve the enterprise's boat, an
operational start date and approval of its casino manager. Mr. Moore reviewed
the progress of the enterprise's completion of capital structuring, noting that
three-fourths of ownership is held by Illinois residents. He also stated that
the enterprise has secured a riverboat that will be named the Par-A-Dice. Mr.
Moore stated that the enterprise would be opening a gaming school during late
July and were planning an operational start date during the period of October 15
to November 1, 1991. The Chairman asked for discussion and recognized Member
Johnson. Member Johnson asked questions regarding the capitalization of the
enterprise.
Mr. Moore next introduced Mr. Lawrence Suffredin, counsel for Casino Cruises
Inc., which Greater Peoria was requesting be licensed as its supplier of casino
management services. The Chairman recognized Mr. Suffredin.
Mr. Suffredin offered remarks describing the ownership of Casino Cruises, Inc.
which included Mr. Bernard Goldstein. He also stated that the application for
an owner's license received from Mr. Bernard Goldstein in the name of Casino
Packet Boat Company would be withdrawn in favor of being granted a Supplier's
License to be the casino manager for the Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
He further stated that Mr. Goldstein's children who were shareholders in Greater
Peoria would ask to be allowed to withdraw from the Des Plaines Development
Corporation, the Joliet applicant.
The Chairman next called on the Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation and recognized
Mr. James Sheerin. Mr. Sheerin, President of Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation,
stated that the Corporation had signed a contract for the purchase of land
located on Frentress Lake and noted that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had
approved the location. He stated that the boat was under construction and would
be twice as large as originally proposed and would carry 1,500 patrons and have
850 gaming positions. He also noted that Jo Daviess County had hired an

 engineering firm for infrastructure improvements. Mr. Sheerin stated that the
enterprise was anticipating a first quarter 1992 date to commence operations.
The Chairman asked for discussion and recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson asked questions concerning the capital structure of the
Corporation and requested that the enterprise submit a new presentation on the
number and holdings of all investors. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next called on Rock Island Boatworks, Incorporated and recognized
Mr. Michael Ficaro, counsel for the corporation. Mr. Ficaro stated that the
enterprise was on target for beginning operations during the first quarter of
1992. Mr. Ficaro stated that the only change in the application was an
expansion of the docking facility.
The Chairman asked for discussion.
Board.

There were no questions by members of the

The next order of business was the selection on an accounting firm to perform
services in connection with the Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation. The
Chairman recognized Deputy Administrator Marcy Wolf.
Ms. Wolf stated that eleven accounting firms had responded to the Board's
Request for Proposals. She explained the methodology and criteria that was used
in the evaluation process. Based on all available information, Ms. Wolf stated
that the staff was recommending that the firm of Coopers and Lybrand of Chicago
be selected at a cost of $52,242.00 for the engagement.
After discussion, Member Johnson moved that the firm of Coopers and Lybrand be
approved as the accounting firm for Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
Member Gibson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman suggested that the Board recess for lunch and Executive Session and
asked that a motion to that effect be made.
Member Johnson moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, Illinois Revised
Statutes, 102, Section 42.02, (g), (h) and (k) the Board retire to closed
session and reconvene at the hour of 1:00 P.M. Hearing no objections to the
contrary, the Board retired to closed session at 11:50 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened its regular meeting at 1:13 P.M. with all
members present. The Chairman re-called Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership
for additional questions. Mr. J. Thomas Long appeared representing the
applicant. The Chairman recognized Member Johnson. Member Johnson asked
additional questions concerning the financial projections of the enterprise and
the distribution of profits to investors. Mr. Long stated that there would be
capital reserves maintained as well as distributions to investors of profits.
The next order of business was to consider the requests made by the Alton
Riverboat Gambling Partnership. Chairman Kunkle first entertained a motion with
regard to the proposed change in the applicant's boat capacity. Member Gibson
moved that the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership be granted approval to
reduce the capacity of their proposed vessel from 2,500 to a vessel of 650.
Member Niepert seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays
by a showing of hands. The members responded as follows:

 Member Chamblin
Member Gibson
Member Johnson
Member Niepert
Mr. Chairman

"Aye"
"Aye"
"Nay"
"Aye"
"Aye"

The motion was approved 4 ayes and 1 nay.
The Chairman next entertained a motion with respect to the approval of a
replacement investor. Member Johnson moved that Mr. John Biggs Pratt be
approved as an investor in the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership. Member
Niepert seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays be a
showing of hands. The motion was approved unanimously.
The Chairman next turned to the request of Greater Peoria with respect to
approval of its Gaming Manager.
Member Niepert moved that Casino Cruises Incorporated be approved as the Gaming
Manager for Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation, a Level 1 Occupation License.
Member Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays
by a showing of hands. The members responded as follows:
Member Chamblin
Member Gibson
Member Johnson
Member Niepert
Mr. Chairman

"Aye"
"Nay"
"Aye"
"Aye"
"Aye"

The motion was approved 4 ayes, 1 nay.
The next order of business was consideration of applications received for
Supplier's Licenses of gaming equipment and supplies. The Chairman recognized
Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman recommended that the applications received from
International Game Technology, Paul Son Dice and Card, Incorporated and
Universal Distributing of Nevada, Incorporated be approved as suppliers of
gaming equipment and supplies.
Member Chamblin moved that the application for a Suppliers License received from
International Game Technology be approved. Member Niepert seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Niepert moved that the application for a Suppliers License received from
Paul Son Dice and Card, Incorporated be approved. Member Johnson seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Gibson moved that the application for a Suppliers License received from
Universal Distributing of Nevada, Incorporated be approved. Member Chamblin
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Johnson asked what other Suppliers License applications were pending.
Mr. Friedman responded that the Board had received an application from Green
Duck Corporation, a token manufacturer, and that the application was currently
being investigated by staff members.

 The next order of business was requests received from applicants under
consideration for 1992 Owner's Licenses that consideration of their applications
be postponed or that their application be withdrawn from consideration. The
Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman stated that the first such
request was with respect to Arch View Casino Cruises, Incorporated and asked
leave of the Board to hear from Mr. Robert Ogren, attorney for the applicant.
Leave was granted.
Mr. Ogren stated that the applicant was requesting a postponement of
consideration and leave to amend the application. Mr. Ogren stated that the
death of the late Vincent Sauget on May 29, 1991 who was the President of the
Corporation and an investor prompted the request to amend the capital formation
originally submitted to the Board. He further stated that the applicant wished
to amend the docking site, a move of approximately one-half mile from the
original site named in the application.
Member Chamblin moved that the application of Arch View Casino Cruises,
Incorporated be postponed and that the applicant be allowed to amend the
application. Member Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Friedman next asked leave of the Board to hear Mr. Lawrence Suffredin,
attorney for Casino Packet Boat Company, for the purpose of considering the
applicant's request to withdraw from consideration for an Owner's License.
Leave was granted. Mr. Suffredin stated the applicant was requesting that the
Board approve withdrawal of the application. Member Chamblin moved that the
request of applicant Casino Packet Boat Company to withdraw from consideration
be approved. Member Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Friedman next asked leave of the Board to hear a request from Mr. Charles
Sklarsky, attorney for Owner's License applicant Joseph Schadler and Mr. James
Montana, Jr., attorney for Owner's License applicant Gerald Mason, principals of
Schadler/Mason Partnership. Leave was granted. Mr. Sklarsky, counsel for Mr.
Schadler, reviewed the history of the Schadler/Mason Partnership application and
indicated that it appeared that the current application could not go forward.
Mr. Sklarsky requested that the Board allow Mr. Schadler to maintain his portion
of the application for another sixty days at which time Mr. Schadler would
announce the identity of an entity that would replace Schadler/Mason Partnership
as the applicant in its entirety. Mr. Sklarsky stated that unless the Board
approved Mr. Schadler's request, Mr. Schadler was prepared to request that the
Board allow the application to be withdrawn.
The Chairman next recognized Mr. Montana, counsel for applicant Gerald Mason.
Mr. Montana stated that Mr. Mason opposed Mr. Schadler's request unless Mr.
Mason were given sixty days to negotiate with the new applicant to possibly
recover his costs. If the Board, however, did not honor Mr. Mason's request,
Mr. Mason was prepared to request withdrawal of the application.
After some questioning by Board members on this proposal, Chairman Kunkle stated
that the Board would need to consider the requests in closed session along with
the pending 1992 applications.
Chairman Kunkle then recognized the Honorable Allen McCauley, Mayor of the City
of Moline. Mayor McCauley stated that the City of Moline was being held hostage
in the process and that the City was supportive of identifying a highly

 qualified candidate to operate in the City of Moline. The Mayor told the Board
that a gaming enterprise was part of an overall riverfront development project
that was being undertaken in Moline. He stated that he appreciated that Board's
efforts to date.
The next order of business was the presentation of the 1992 owner applications.
The Chairman recognized Mr. Tyrone C. Fahner, counsel for the applicant, Aurora
Riverboats Incorporated. Mr. Fahner introduced Mr. William Weidner, President
of the Pratt Hotel Corporation for the applicant's formal presentation.
Mr. Weidner provided the Board with background information concerning Pratt
Industries and the Sands Hotel Corporation. His presentation also concerned the
marketing plan and economic impact for Aurora Riverboats Incorporated. He
stated that the enterprise, if eligible, planned to begin operations by October
1, 1992. Mr. Weidner asked leave of the Board to hear from the Honorable David
Pierce stated that the City of Aurora was in support of locating Aurora
Riverboats, Inc. in their community and urged the Board's favorable
consideration. The Chairman called for discussion on the application and
recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson asked questions concerning the capital structure and investments
of the applicant and the calculation of the average loss per passenger.
The next applicant was Des Plaines River Entertainment Corporation. The
Chairman recognized Mr. Anton Valukas, Jr., counsel for the applicant. Mr.
Valukas introduced Mr. Tom Lambrecht, Chairman of the Board for Des Plaines
River Entertainment Corporation and Mr. Philip Griffith, a member of the Board
and a principle of the Fitzgerald Group of Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. Valukas told
the Board the unique aspects of the application. He stressed that the capital
structure of the investors will not make it necessary for additional investors
and that the current investors had committed to an investment of $20 million.
He noted that the Fitzgerald's Group would become the gaming operations manager
for the enterprise. Mr. Valukas stated that the applicant would become
operational around Labor Day of 1992.
The Chairman called for discussion on the application and recognized Member
Johnson.
Member Johnson asked questions regarding investor William McEnery and his
involvement in the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership and what would happen if
Mr. McEnery exceeded the statutory limitations of percentage holdings as an
owner. Mr. Tom Lambrecht responded that the current investors had sufficient
resources available to cover any potential problems that might arise.
There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next called on Des Plaines Development Corporation and recognized
Mr. Lawrence Suffredin, counsel for the applicant. Mr. Suffredin first
introduced Mr. John Q. Hammons one of the applicants for the Des Plaines
Development Corporation as well as Joliet city officials. Mr. Suffredin asked
the Board to approve a modification to the application to allow the children of
Bernard Goldstein to withdraw their interest from the application, making Mr.
Hammons the sole investor. He noted that Mr. Hammons was financially able to
assume 100% ownership of the corporation.
Chairman Kunkle stated that the Board would consider the request as part of the
application and invited Mr. Suffredin to continue his presentation.

 Mr. Suffredin described the application and the benefits the operation would
bring to the City of Joliet. Mr. Suffredin introduced Mr. John Mezera, city
Manager of the City of Joliet. Mr. Mezera stated that the City of Joliet
supported the application of Des Plaines Development Corporation. He presented
the Board with a petition of support for the application containing some 2,640
signatures. He noted that a gaming enterprise was included in the city's
downtown development revitalization plan. He urged the Board's favorable
consideration of the application.
The Chairman called for discussion of the application and recognized Member
Johnson. Member Johnson asked questions concerning the applicant's passenger
and revenue projections. He also asked questions concerning the capital
investment of Mr. Hammons in light of the request for withdrawal of the
Goldstein family.
Member Chamblin asked whether the Will County Board was in support of one or
both Will County applications. Both Messrs Valukas and Suffredin stated that
the Will County Board supported both applications.
There was no further discussion.
Chairman Kunkle next called on Southern Illinois Casino Cruises Incorporated and
recognized Mr. Michael Ficaro, counsel for the applicant.
Mr. Ficaro requested that Southern Illinois Casino Cruises Incorporated be
allowed to continue their application until the next meeting of the Board.
Member Gibson moved that the application of Southern Illinois Casino Cruises
Incorporated be continued. Member Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously by voice
vote.
The Chairman next requested that the Board recess to closed session pursuant to
the Open Meetings Act, Ill. Rev. Stat., 102, Section 42.02 (g), (h), and (k).
Without objection from any member, the Board recessed to closed session at 3:23
P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened its meeting at 4:57 P.M. with all members
present. The first order of business was the requests made by the
Schadler/Mason Partnership. Member Johnson submitted a written motion to wit:
"I move that the Board, consistent with the precedent previously set by the
Board in responding to similar requests, that replacing both Mr. Mason and Mr.
Schadler by other parties and creating an entirely new business plan, including
the rental of dock facilities from Mr. Schadler, is not acceptable as an
amendment to a pending application. Therefore, pursuant to the statements of
counsel for both Mr. Schadler and Mr. Mason, earlier today, the Board would
grant the request for the Schadler/Mason Partnership to withdraw its
application."
Member Gibson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the application made by Des Plaines Riverboat
Entertainment Corporation. Member Niepert moved that the application for an
Owner's License received from Des Plaines Development Corporation be found

 preliminary suitable for licensing. Member Gibson seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report concerning pending
legislation. The Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman stated that
copies of pertinent legislation could be found in the Board member's packets.
He noted that he had informed the Governor's Office of the Board's opposition to
legislation that would move the location of judicial review of Board decisions
to the Circuit Court, and that the legislation was pending gubernatorial action.
Mr. Friedman requested that the Board re-schedule its Regular Meeting in October
to October 23, 1991 to avoid a schedule conflict. The request was approved,
without objection.
The next order of business was New Business. The Chairman recognized Member
Johnson. Member Johnson requested that the Administrator determine when the
Board will require a Special Meeting in Alton to finalize that application. Mr.
Friedman responded that he currently expected that a Special Meeting would be
requested sometime in the month of August, 1991 for that purpose.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Johnson moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Gibson seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote and the Board stood adjourned at 5:02 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

James A. Nelson
Secretary to the Board

 