Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 21, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Member Absent
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 21, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:02 a.m. by Carolyn Lopez, M.D.
Approval of Minutes: April and May 2017 minutes were approved.
Comments by the Board President:
Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an overview of the board’s history and explained
the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public
health. She has been invited to be a speaker at a residency graduation and wondering about the
speech in terms of our current healthcare uncertainty, and what do you do? Dr. Lopez mentioned
that we need to move forward and look at our core principles – that is what we are trying to do.
Comments by Commissioner Morita:
As you know, on May 23, CDPH celebrated the one-year anniversary of Healthy Chicago 2.0,
illustrating that advancing health equity involves various government agencies and partners
working together to take action. In addition, CDPH celebrated that the de Beaumont
Foundation’s City Health project awarded Chicago a gold star for our health policies, from
tobacco to bike lanes to healthy food. At the event, it was announced that CPDH planned to visit
four communities with low childhood opportunity to obtain their input and recommendations
over the summer.
Presentations: Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner, “Healthy Kids”—kicking off a series of
town halls across Chicago.
The presentation outlined the following:
o What are public policies?
o Childhood opportunity
o Five key areas aligned with 2.0 where there are continuing health disparities among youth
and where public policies can make a difference: improving homes, empowering parents,
promoting vaccines, reducing obesity, and mitigating trauma.
o Community conversation
o Next steps
At the end of the presentation, Commissioner Morita asked for feedback and policy suggestions
from BOH members and members of the public in attendance.
Comments from the Board of Health:
 Presentation was great with lot of emphases on policy but could use language, story, and
imagery that will be more relatable in the communities where CDPH will be presenting,
showing more concretely how policy matters to children.
 Give residents something they can take home and do, and contextualize policy.
 Perhaps present on fewer issue areas, though all are important, including trauma.
 Trauma is a critical area to help Chicago residents, as four people were shot last night.
Mental health professionals and mental health training are critical.
Commissioner Morita thanked everyone present for their valuable feedback and comments.
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment:

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 21, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Adam Becker, Executive Director, Consortium to Lower Obesity in Chicago Children,
emphasized the food marketing that contributes to childhood obesity. He proposed requiring
restaurants to ensure that meals marketed to children meet strong nutritional standards.
Nadeen Israel, Director of Policy, EverThrive, said the HPV vaccine should be required for
school entry. She said the acceptance of the HPV vaccine among parents increases the number of
HPV vaccines given, and vaccine information should be provided at the town hall meetings.
Sharmili Majmudar, Director of Strategic Partnerships, Women Employed, emphasized the need
to effectively implement, enforce, and educate workers and employers about the new law on paid
sick leave going into effect on July 1, 2017.
John Bartlett, Executive Director, Metropolitan Tenants Organization, proposed that the City
enact a comprehensive proactive rental inspection program to ensure healthy homes. He said
unsafe housing leads to a child not developing – lead is a problem, we need to change the
behavior of landlords, and housing should be more affordable.
Wendy Pollack, Director, Shriver Center's Women's Law and Policy Project, stated she was on
the Mayor’s task force for working families. She advocated for paid family leave for Chicago
residents, saying many people don’t qualify for FMLA, and FMLA doesn’t provide paid leave
regardless. She said paid parental leave has positive benefits for children and working moms.
Kendall Stagg, Director of Safety Net Transformation and Community Health Innovation,
Trinity Health, discussed childhood obesity and the false advertising of nutrition information
including calorie counts. He also advocated for expanded efforts to promote breastfeeding.
Peter, a DePaul student, said students affected by violence bused to a YMCA in Chicago, where
the kids have inadequate food choices.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:20 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: July 19, 2017, 9:00 a.m.

 