STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 9, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, N-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 11, 2013

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the June 11, 2013 meeting. Member Besson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from June 1 through 30, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CB-13-027
County of Kane and Kane County Sheriffs/ Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee

Chairman Hartnett moved to immediately hear the oral argument scheduled in Case No. S-CB-13-027, County of
Kane and Kane County Sheriffs/Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee. The Board agreed. The parties to the
case presented oral argument to the Board. At the conclusion thereof, Chairman Hartnett moved that the Board hold
this case for decision until the August meeting. The Board agreed.
2.
Case No. S-UC-12-056
Treasurer of the State of Illinois/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post noted that on April
9, 2013, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a recommended decision and order (RDO).
General Counsel Post stated that Petitioner filed a unit clarification petition seeking to find that one of its employees
in the title of information systems analyst II should be excluded from the collective bargaining unit as a confidential
employee within the meaning of Section 3(c) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then
reviewed and discussed the issues presented in the Petitioner’s exceptions and responses and the Employer’s
responses and cross-exceptions. After discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the RDO
and decline to consider the Employer’s cross-exceptions. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the
General Counsel’s recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-RC-12-019
Illinois Council of Police and Sheriffs, Local 7, AFL-CIO/ Northeastern Illinois University
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Stevens’ RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-12-087
Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association/ City of Waukegan
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Bell’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at that time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of August, 2013.

2

 