STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 7, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.
PRESENT
Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director (participated by telephone-conference); Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
and staff members.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 8, 2013
III.
Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the January 8, 2013 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from January 1 through January 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights.
The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

LEGISLATIVE/FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report, reviewing in
detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned various
aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-CA-13-008
Brenda Carter/ Cook County Health and Hospital Systems (Stroger Hospital)
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel stated that on December
21, 2012 the Executive Director dismissed the charge and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post stated
that the Charging Party alleged that the Employer engaged in unfair labor practices in violation of Section 10(a)(1)
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the Charging
Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion,
Member Lewis moved to accept the dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-13-005
Brenda Carter/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel stated that on December
21, 2012 the Executive Director dismissed the charge and an appeal and a response had been filed. General Counsel
Post stated that the Charging Party alleged that the Union engaged in unfair labor practices in violation of Section
10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the
Charging Party’s appeal and the Union’s response and then recommended that the Board affirm the Executive

 Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the dismissal. Member Lewis seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

3.
Case No. L-CB-13-001
James Conlee Jackson/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel stated that on November
7, 2012 the Executive Director dismissed the charge and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post stated that
the Charging Party alleged that the Union was in violation of Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations
Act. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal and recommended that the Board affirm the
Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the dismissal. Member Lewis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, Member Anderson made a
motion to leave open session. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote. Chairman Gierut made a motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel matters pursuant to 5
ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to leave executive session. Member
Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Gierut then made a
motion to return to open session. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VII.
ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Lewis made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of March, 2013.

2

 