MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
December 9, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on December 9, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Violet Clark and Gary Peterlin. Member Dugan was present telephonically.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the December 9, 2003 Regular Meeting at 8:42 A.M. in
the 3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Peterlin moved that pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of
the Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s (December 9, 2003) agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:10 P.M.
Minutes
Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 18, 2003 and Special Meeting of November 25, 2003 and the open
session minutes of its Regular Meeting of November 18, 2003 and Special Meeting of
November 25, 2003. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom stated that it looks like the Board might be in a position to have a
reorganization plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Attorney General Lisa Madigan has
completed her negotiations with the licensee as it relates to a reorganization plan. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the process is completely open and the Board wants the public to be
informed of all aspects of the process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is very pleased
to announce that the Board has made significant progress with regard to the 10th license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is hopeful that the Board would be able to continue to
make positive steps toward bringing this action to a conclusion that would benefit the
taxpayers of the State of Illinois and ensure that the integrity of gaming in Illinois is
protected.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a general manager’s meeting
on Wednesday, December 10, 2003. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Member
Peterlin would be attending the meeting.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Staff has a meeting on Thursday, December
11, 2003 with state’s attorney’s offices from five counties in which riverboats are located.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been meeting with state’s attorneys
throughout the State to coordinate law enforcement activities and address security issues.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is working diligently on the internal controls
for ticket vouchering technology. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff would be
at Casino Queen Wednesday through Friday working directly with the internal controls in
hopes to expedite the process for all of the licensees.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that although the licensees are not on today’s
(December 9, 2003) agenda for a public presentation, each of the licensees that made
operational changes in the past month did submit to the Board memos updating the
operational changes, and the changes were discussed this morning by the Board.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Staff will soon be sending to the printers the
new Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules and amended Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the books should be ready at the beginning of the
year for distribution to the licensees and anyone else who would like a copy.

2

 Owner Licensee Items
ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY – REQUEST TO REFINANCE DEBT AND WAIVER
OF TWO-MEETING RULE – James Butler, Corporate Counsel, was present on behalf of
Argosy Gaming Company to request a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule. Mr. Butler stated
that Argosy would like to reprice a $275 million dollar term loan, which was approved in
July 2001 and becomes due in July 2008. Mr. Butler stated that Argosy has the opportunity
to reprice the loan by lowering the interest rate, which would save Argosy approximately
$1.4 million dollars. Mr. Butler stated that Argosy would like to take advantage of the
opportunity while the interest rates are low, which is why Argosy is requesting a waiver of
the Two-Meeting Rule.
Member Clark moved that the Board waive the requirement of Board Rule 3000.105(e)
and permit Argosy Gaming Company to present for Board approval its request to
refinance debt. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Argosy Gaming Company’s request to refinance its debt and
delegate to the Administrator under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the
transaction upon execution of the appropriate documents. The parameters of the
refinancing shall be as follows:
Argosy Gaming Company shall be allowed to enter into a financing transaction at any
time during the next 90 days with the following terms and conditions:
1.

that the interest rate adjustment from LIBOR plus 2.75% to
LIBOR plus 2.00-2.25% would be applicable only to the
$275M term loan that matures on July 31, 2008 and was part
of the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement which
was previously approved by the Illinois Gaming Board on July
31, 2001;

2.

total funded debt to EBITDA ratio shall be no more than 4.25:
1.00;

3.

senior funded debt to EBITDA ratio shall be no more than
2.50: 1.00;

4.

EBITDA to fixed charges ratio must be at least 1.50: 1.00;

5.

total net worth must meet the minimum requirements
described in Argosy’s correspondence to Administrator
Tamayo dated November 26, 2003, attachment, item #1;
3

 6.

Argosy is required to invest a minimum of $25M in capital
expenditures annually at its properties for maintenance, and is
restricted by a cap on the maximum it can spend on the sum of
acquisitions, investments, and capital expenditures as
described in correspondence to Administrator Tamayo dated
November 26, 2003, attachment, item #2;

7.

that no other terms and conditions have changed from the
Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement which was
previouosly approved by the Illinois Gaming Board on July 31,
2001;

8.

Argosy Gaming Company shall give notice to the Board within
24 hours of any transaction that is entered into pursuant to this
order; and

9.

Argosy Gaming Company shall update the Board on the status
of its debt refinancing at every regular scheduled Board
meeting until the transaction is completed.

Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unaimously by voice
vote.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – REQUEST TO SELL VESSELS AND WAIVER OF
TWO-MEETING RULE - James Butler, Corporate Counsel, was present on behalf of
Empress to request a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule and approval to sell its vessels. Mr.
Butler stated that in May of 2003, Empress was renovated, which entailed a $42 million
dollar project. Mr. Butler stated that during the renovation, Empress went from having two
vessels to having one large barge. Mr. Butler stated that since Empress does not need the
vessels anymore, Empress would like to sell them. Mr. Butler stated that Empress requested
a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule because Empress would really like to sell the vessels
before the year is over. Mr. Butler stated that Empress has been in contact with Staff and
that Empress still has a few issues to resolve. Mr. Butler requested that Empress be allowed
to seek final approval before the Board, providing that all issues are resolved and the Board
has another meeting during the month of December.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board intends to meet next week (December
15, 2003). Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff would recommend that if the
issues are resolved and the information is provided to Staff in time to review, that the Board
takes final action. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff would recommend that the
Board deny Empress’ request to waive the Two-Meeting Rule due to the fact that it is not
appropriate at this time.

4

 Member Peterlin moved that the Board not waive the requirement of Board Rule
3000.105(e) and not permit Empress Casino, Inc. to present for Board approval its
request to sell vessels and waiver of two-meeting rule. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO QUEEN – CHARLES W. BIDWELL III – TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
INTERESTS TO TRUSTS – John Janicik, Attorney, was present on behalf of Charles W.
Bidwell. Mr. Janicik stated that Mr. Bidwell’s request was to transfer shares that were held
personally by Mr. Bidwell to trusts, which he would be the sole beneficiary, as well as the
sole trustee.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve, pursuant to Board Rule 3000.235, the transfer of two shares of
common stock of Casino Queen, Inc. from Charles W. Bidwell, III to the Bidwell
Succession Trust and, further, the transfer of two shares of common stock of Casino
Queen, Inc. from Charles W. Bidwell, III to the Bidwell Kasino Trust. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Suppler Licensee Items
GEORGE C. MATTESON CMPANY, INC. – DANNY R. CARPENTER, OWNER/CEO –
KEY PERSON – Kaye Summers, Danny Carpenter’s wife, was present on behalf of Danny
Carpenter to request approval as Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Danny R. Carpenter as a Key Person of George C. Matteson
Company, Inc. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
GEORGE C. MATTESON COMPANY, INC. – DIANA KAYE SUMMERS,
OWNER/CEO – KEY PERSON – Diana Kaye Summers was present on her own behalf to
request approval as Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Diana Kaye Summers as a Key Person of George C. Matteson
Company, Inc. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

5

 PDS GAMING – LICENSE RENEWAL – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of
PDS Gaming to request license renewal.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license of PDS Gaming Corporation for a term of 1 year
expiring December 2004 and impose the following condition:
PDS shall develop and implement a corrective action plan to prevent future compliance
violations and provide quarterly reports to the Board describing the corrective action
taken.
PDS is granted approval to provide the following gaming equipment to Illinois
licensees:

• Financing and leasing options of electronic gaming devices and sell and/or lease
reconditioned electronic gaming devices.
• Parts for electronic gaming devices authorized for sale by the Administrator
pursuant to the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Illinois Gaming Board Adopted
Rules.
• Additionally, each and every used electronic gaming device offered to Illinois
casinos must be first individually tested by an independent gaming laboratory.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions as Key Persons of the licensee:
1. Chief Executive Officer; and
2. Chief Operating Officer/President.
In the event that PDS fails to make an appropriate and timely request as specified in
Board Rule 3000.405 for a hearing within 5 days of delivery of the written restriction of
licensure, this action of the Board shall become the final action of the Board restricting
the Suppliers license application for one year.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 58 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 127 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

6

 Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions

• In re the Disciplinary Action of Ebony Pruitt
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Ebony Pruitt, a level 2 occupational
licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Ebony Pruitt’s failure to disclose a March 11, 2003 arrest
and subsequent disposition.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Ebony Pruitt’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

• In re the Disciplinary Action of Jennifer Crockarell
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Jennifer Crockarell, a level 2
occupational licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her 2 previous theft convictions and her failure to
notify the Board regarding these arrests and convictions.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Jennifer Crockarell’s occupational
license. Said action to take affect 21 days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

• In re the Disciplinary Action of Vanessa Jones
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Vanessa Jones, a level 3 occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose her February 26, 2002 conviction for retail theft in
violation of the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’ Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Ms. Jones’ occupational license.
Said action to take affect 21 days from the date of service of this complaint unless the
licensee files and answer within that time period. Member Clark seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports

• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Emerald Casino, Inc., DC-01-05- Proposed
Settlement Offer
In Re The Matter of the Denial of the Renewal of the Owner’s License of
Emerald Casino, Inc., GL-01-01 - Proposed Settlement Offer
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that this item is not for Board action, but for public
presentation. Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on the history of the
settlement agreement between the Board and Emerald Casino, Inc.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that as required by the Board Rules and committed to
by the Board to the public, consideration of Emerald’s latest proposal will be taken in two
steps: (1) today (December 9, 2003) the Board’s bankruptcy counsel, Bill Barrett, will
present to the Board a review of Emerald’s reorganization and sale proposal in the proposed
settlement with the Board. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that immediately following
Mr. Barrett’s discussion those persons having requested to present public comment would
have an opportunity to address the Board. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
immediately following the public presentation, the Board would retire to Closed session to
continue its discussion of the Emerald proposal. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
the Board would meet again on December 15, 2003 to reconsider the proposal and vote on
whether or not to enter into an agreement with Emerald.
Interim Administrator Tamayo introduced Bill Barrett, Bankruptcy Counsel for the Board.
Mr. Barrett provided the Board with a report on the status of the Emerald bankruptcy
proceeding and the related settlement that has been recently negotiated between the Office of
the Attorney General and Emerald Casino, Inc. Mr. Barrett’s report included a summary of
Emerald’s plan of reorganization; Emerald’s efforts to reorganize; the IGB’s role in
reviewing the plan; and key provisions of the letter agreement.
Public Commentary
Connie Payton was present on behalf of herself and 16 other minority and women statutory
applicants of the Emerald Casino. Ms. Payton stated that the statutory applicants represent a
class of persons distinct and separate from the shareholders and other investors of the
Emerald Casino. Ms. Payton stated that the statutory applicants represent a group of persons
specifically mandated by the Illinois General Assembly as participants in the Emerald
Casino. Ms. Payton stated that the statutory applicants gave Emerald Casino over $32
million dollars between August 1999 and August 2000. Ms. Payton stated that the statutory
applicants filed with the Board their applications for approval as shareholders in Emerald in
1999 as required by law; however, no action was ever taken, and therefore, the statutory

8

 applicants never became shareholders in Emerald. Ms. Payton stated that the statutory
applicants stand in the position of persons who have loaned Emerald $32 million. Ms.
Payton stated that the proposed settlement that is before the Board between the current
management of Emerald and the Attorney General treats the statutory applicants in an
inferior position to others who loaned money to Emerald. Ms. Payton urged the Board that
in its consideration of the settlement plan to insist that the statutory applicants and all
unsecured creditors receive post-petition interest at a rate of 5.25% as recommended by the
Official Creditors Committee appointed pursuant to the Bankruptcy Act.
Robert M. Stephenson, Counsel for the Village of Rosemont, was present to discuss the
Attorney General’s plan of reorganization. Mr. Stephenson stated that on yesterday, he sent
Staff and the Board a two-page summary of the points that he believes are objectionable in
the Attorney General’s sponsored plan. Mr. Stephenson stated that the plan of reorganization
is “dead on arrival” in the United States Bankruptcy Court. Mr. Stephenson stated that the
material that was provided to Staff and the Board would explain why he feels the plan of
reorganization is “dead on arrival.” Mr. Stephenson stated that the plan is unconfirmable.
Mr. Stephenson stated that Rosemont would not consent to the Attorney General’s plan as
drafted. Mr. Stephenson stated that the Attorney General’s unnecessary intervention in the
Board’s policing of the Illinois gaming industry has resulted in a loss of over a year in which
to get the 10th license up and running and in which to create hundreds, it not thousands, of
new jobs for Illinois citizens. Mr. Stephenson stated that the Attorney General’s unnecessary
intervention has resulted in a loss of millions of dollars in tax revenues and a loss of
convention business to the State. Mr. Stephenson requested that when the Board reviews the
specifics on what it has to vote on, that it takes into consideration what he and Ms. Payton
have said today.
Jeff Schwartz, Gardner Carton & Douglas, represents the Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors in the Emerald bankruptcy case. Mr. Schwartz stated that the committee believes
that a consensual plan, supported by all of the debtors major constituencies, could be
accomplished through Emerald’s proposed plan, as long as minor modifications are made or
through the plan filed by the creditors committee. Mr. Schwartz stated that the committee
believes that the Gaming Board has a unique opportunity at this time to approve a plan that
could expeditiously accomplish the Gaming Board’s regulatory mandate. Mr. Schwartz
stated that committee stands ready to work with the Gaming Board towards that objective.
Mr. Schwartz stated that the committee is concerned with how Emerald’s plan is currently
drafted because it lacks support from key constituencies who could block or deny
confirmation of the plan, which has potential to cause further delay and cost the State
hundreds of millions of dollars of lost tax revenue. Mr. Schwartz stated that a consensual
plan is suggested by the committee, whether it be through Emerald’s or the committee’s plan.
Mr. Schwartz stated that the consensual plan offers, what the committee believes, the most
effective and appropriate path to an end that serves the interest of all of the constituents.
Thomas B. Kirkpatrick, President, Chicago Crime Commission, stated that the Chicago
Crime Commission has consistently opposed any settlement agreement which pays back the
original Emerald investors because the investors have been found unfit by the Gaming Board
9

 to hold the license. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that since the investors have been found unfit to
hold a gaming license, the investors have nothing to sell and the license is the property of the
State of Illinois. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that the State of Illinois should take steps to proceed
to put the license out for a competitive bid in the most suitable location and for the most
suitable applicant. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that the commission feels that the Board should
reject the settlement in order to maintain the integrity of the gaming industry.
Ms. Chaz Ebert, statutory minority shareholder in Emerald Casino, was present to discuss the
proposed plan. Ms. Ebert stated that she agrees with the issues that Ms. Payton presented to
the Board. Ms. Ebert stated that in the past, casino licenses were given out in the State of
Illinois, and not one minority was included. Ms. Ebert stated that this is the first time that
minorities are being allowed to invest. Ms. Ebert thanked members of the Staff, who worked
so hard to make sure that the statutory minorities will be allowed to go forward. Ms. Ebert
urged the Board that in its consideration of the settlement plan to insist that the statutory
applicants and all unsecured creditors receive post-petition interest at a rate of 5.25%, as
recommended by the Official Creditors Committee appointed pursuant to the Bankruptcy
Act.
At 3:35 P.M., Member Clark moved that the Board reconvene into Closed session.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
At 3:42 Member Clark moved that the Board adjourn. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

10

 