MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
March 4, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Friday, March 4, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois
at 9:05 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee Gould, Hector
Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, and Member Dunn participated via telephone
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on December 16, 2015. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of January 28, 2016. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
Proposed Amendment to the Riverboat Gambling Rule 440
Member Dunn moved to amend Section 440 of the Board’s Rules by authorizing staff
to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final
review and approval by the Administrator. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action/Vote Required)
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Casino – Owners License
Renewal
Member Robinson moved to renew the Owners License of Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Casino for a period of four years, expiring in March
2020. Further, I move to approve the following entity and individuals as Key
Persons:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Boyd Gaming Corporation
Theodore A. Bogich
William S. Boyd
Matthew Bozell

 5.
6.
7.
8.

Marianne Boyd Johnson
Matthew D. Mitchell
Keith E. Smith
William R. Stage

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation-Boyd Gaming Corporation– Request for
refinancing transaction approval
Member Gould moved to approve Boyd Gaming Corporation’s request for approval
of the issuance of debt not to exceed $1.47 billion, consisting of Senior Unsecured
Notes and/or incremental Credit Facility commitments, to fund the repayment of
existing debt and related fees, subject to final approval by the Administrator.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Casino Queen, Inc. - Patrick K. Delaney Director of Security – Level 1
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Patrick K. Delaney as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of Security for Casino Queen, Inc.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino
MGM Resorts International – Refinancing
Member Gould moved pursuant to Rule 230(d), I move to approve MGM Resorts
International’s request for approval of amendment of its existing credit facility for
issuance of $1.5 million in commitments to fund the repayment of existing credit
facility debt and related fees, subject to final approval by the Administrator.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
MGM Reports International Restructuring- Transfer of Ownership
Member Gould moved to approve MGM Resorts International’s restructuring
request for transfer of joint venture ownership interest in Elgin Riverboat Resort
d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino, from Nevada Landing Partnership to M.S.E
Investments, Inc. and Diamond Gold, Inc., who will in turn transfer to Mandalay
Resort Group, and ultimately to MGM Elgin Sub, Inc. Member Alejandre seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 MGM Elgin Sub, Inc. – Key Person
Member Robinson moved to approve Elgin Riverboat Resort's request for MGM
Elgin Sub, Inc., created pursuant to reorganization, as a new Business Entity Key
Person of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino, and find MGM
Elgin Sub, Inc. suitable as a Key Person of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
(Board Action/Vote Required)
JCM American Corporation – Hikaru Izawa – President/Director – Key Person
Member Dunn moved to approve and find suitable Hikaru Izawa as a Key Person of
JCM American Corporation in his role as President/Director. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Genesis Gaming Solutions, Inc.
Member Robinson moved to approve the renewal of the Supplier’s License of Genesis
Gaming Solutions, Inc. for a period of four years, retroactive to February 2016,
expiring in February 2020. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approval and Denials)
Member Gould moved to find suitable and approve 52 Level 2 occupational licenses, and
Denial to the following applicants:
1. Gilberto A. Dominguez
2. Larry D. Bennett
3. Kalvin C. Martin
4. Carlos M. Powers
5. Michelle Lynn Millhouse
6. Robert Michael Mulvey
7. Edwin Barrett Jr.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Kyla R. Kirkland (Level 3 occupational licensee)
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational license of Kyla R. Kirkland due
to her conduct of theft, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame

3

 pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Roger A. Felker (Level 2 occupational licensee)
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the occupational license of Roger A. Felker due
to his conduct of theft, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame
pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:28 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 