MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
April 8, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 8, 2004 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, Gary Peterlin, William Dugan and William Fanning.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the April 8, 2004 Regular Meeting at 10:41 A.M. in the
3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (April 8, 2004) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 3:30 P.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that there were a number of items on the agenda to be
tabled.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that this week marks the launching of the ticket
vouchering technology (TITO) in the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom announced
that there are a number of facilities that are up and running with TITO.
Chairman Higginbottom explained that casino patrons who play electronic gaming devices
would now be paid their winnings with a ticket printed out by the machine rather than by
tokens. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the tickets could then be put into another
machine for play or redeemed for cash.

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that TITO would help make Illinois licensees more
competitive.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked Acting Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Michael Fries, and
Staff members Trudy Curtis and Eleni Markos for all of their hard work to make TITO a
success.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that a little more than three weeks ago the Board selected the
winning bidder, who would purchase Emerald Casino, Inc., pending the outcome of the
suitability investigation by the Board’s Staff. Chairman Higginbottom stated that many have
asked the Board to explain its decision that the Isle of Capri in Rosemont is the best site for
the 10th Illinois casino license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the answer is simple – the
Board followed the process dictated by the laws that were developed when this Board was
established. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board was formed with the sanction of
House Speaker Mike Madigan and Senate President Emil Jones. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the Board members have been asked to serve by two Governors of this State.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Attorney General Lisa Madigan developed a list of steps
that she wished for the Board to take in the process of selecting the final bidder while
overseeing the bankruptcy of Emerald Casino. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the wellrespected New York financial firm, Rothschild, Inc., was selected by the Illinois Gaming
Board staff along with the Board to represent Emerald in the handling of the auction of the
Emerald license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General informed the Board that if they did
not agree with the choice made by Rothschild, the Board would have to explain in detail their
decision in writing. Chairman Higginbottom stated that after completing a thorough
financial analysis, considered growth patterns, location, and potential tourism dollars, the
Board came up with the same choice as Rothschild, Inc. – Isle of Capri. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General then publicly asked that the Board explain its
choice in detail.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board’s selection of the Isle of Capri has drawn sharp
criticism from the Attorney General, the President of the Senate, and the media. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board knew that it would be criticized no matter what decision
it made. Chairman Higginbottom stated that some now want to “do away” with the Board
because of its decision, and the fact that it did not mesh with their politics. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that in his opinion that is a preposterous notion.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that this Board is made up of professionals from all
backgrounds with strong financial experiences. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Staff,
dedicated as it is, does not have the knowledge of financing like Rothschild, Inc.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board asked Staff to bring them information on all
three finalist for the 10th license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board was given
material and financial reports, which they reviewed and analyzed. Chairman Higginbottom
2

 stated that the Board both agreed and disagreed with some of the information that Staff
provided. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board analyzed all aspects of the
information.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that when Rosemont and Des Plaines were compared equally
it was the Board’s standpoint that Rosemont came out ahead. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that the Board voted for the Isle of Capri because, in their opinion, it would produce more
income for the State than any other proposal. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board
considered how much tax revenue would be generated for the State of Illinois. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the decision is not about a community but rather about tax revenue.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that soon after the Board made its decision they were
criticized by Attorney General Lisa Madigan for selecting Isle of Capri in Rosemont.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he was surprised that the Attorney General made such
comments regarding Rosemont. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board was simply
following the bidding process that the Attorney General staff had negotiated with Emerald.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the bidding process dictated that every community in the
State could play host to the 10th casino license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
Attorney General didn’t state that Rosemont was off limits when she developed the
reorganization plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on January 20, 2004, the Board
announced that seven bidders had made offers to purchase Emerald Casino, Inc. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that three of the bidders were looking to build in Rosemont. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General did not contact the Board at that time to say
that Rosemont was not a good site. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on February 23,
2004, the Board selected three final bidders for the Emerald license. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that out of the final three, one bidder was seeking to build in Rosemont.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that no one criticized the site at that time. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that if there were any problems with the Village of Rosemont the
Attorney General and other interested parties should have spoken up at that time rather than
remain mute for so long.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that much has been written about Rosemont, Mayor
Stephens, and his alleged mob links to organized crime. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
he has never met Mayor Stephens, nor has he ever spoken to Mayor Stephens on the phone.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that it is true that Staff provided the Board with information
regarding the alleged links that Mayor Stephens has with organized crime. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that some of the information was old. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that the Board asked for more recent reports, but it takes time to gather that information.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that at the time that the Board made its decision, it did not
have recent information. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if casinos can operate cleanly in
Las Vegas and Atlantic City with stringent regulations, they can also flourish in Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that this would be the most closely scrutinized casino ever.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has fined one of its licensees a fine of more
than $3 million dollars. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board fined another licensee
3

 $2 million dollars. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the licensees fined still have their
license, but serious infractions could strip those licenses. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
Isle of Capri is investing over a half a billion dollars for a one-year license. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the State’s share of that half a billion dollars would be
approximately $380 million dollars.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the licensee would not be Mayor Stephens or Rosemont.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the licensee would be Isle of Capri. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that with the bankruptcy court’s approval and the reorganization plan,
Isle of Capri will file an application for licensure with the Illinois Gaming Board. Staff
would then, under its policy and procedure, begin its suitability determination. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that at this point the suitability determination has not been completed.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that if all goes well, the Board would issue a one-year license
to Isle of Capri. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board, as well as the press, members
of the public, members of other State and law enforcement agencies, and members of the
Federal Government enforcement agencies would oversee that license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he feels that it is important to point out that this Board
approves every vendor, employee, supplier, builder, tradesman, and merchant before a
contract can be signed. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has full confidence in
its decision.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that in Closed session today, the Board discussed
Empress Casino’s request to waive the Two-Meeting Rule and sale of vessel, and Par-A-Dice
Casino’s request to refinance current credit facility of over $1billion dollars.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board also discussed extensively Emerald
Casino and personnel.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that with regards to personnel, Staff learned that the
Governor’s Office has decided not to renew Joe Haughey’s, Deputy Administrator of
Enforcement, term with the Gaming Board. Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that
Mr. Haughey’s replacement is Luis Tigera, a State police officer who was previously the
Operations Officer for Zone 1, District 15. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Mr.
Tigera started with the Gaming Board on March 16, 2004 as Deputy Administrator of
Enforcement. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Mr. Haughey would be remaining
with the Gaming Board for the next several months to help assist with the transition.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Mark Pilgrim has started with the Gaming
Board as the supervisor at the Grand Victoria Casino.

4

 Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board is in the process of filling additional
vacancies.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that on April 7, 2004, Casino Queen and Alton
Belle Casino went “live” with Ticket Vouchering Technology. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that Par-A-Dice Casino should be going “live” with the technology today.
Interim Administrator stated that staff from the Internal Controls Unit has worked
extensively to approve the computer system upgrades that are necessary to authorize the
technology.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that most of the casinos would be going “live” by
the end of April. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is anticipating having a
field trial test period for the next several months. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
the three labs – Gaming Laboratories International, BMM Test Labs, and GSS, will be
coming back to Illinois approximately 120 –180 days after a casino goes “live” to retest the
entire system.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that Staff filed two rule-makings that were
previously authorized by the Board. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the first rule
deals with a mechanism and standards to surrender a Suppliers License, the second rule deals
with the procedures and standards for removing someone from the Board’s exclusion list.
Owner Licensee Items
Par-A-Dice Casino/Boyd Gaming – Request to Refinance Current Credit Facility – Donna
More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation and Boyd
Gaming Corporation to request initial consideration to refinance Par-A-Dice Casino/Boyd
Gaming’s current credit facility.
Ms. More stated that she has provided Staff with documents to review. Ms. More stated that
Par-A-Dice Casino/Boyd Gaming will cooperate with Staff and answer any questions or
concerns that they may have.
Empress Casino, Joliet – Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule and Request to Sell Vessel – James
Butler, Corporate Counsel, was present on behalf of Empress Casino, Joliet to request that
the Board waive the Two-Meeting Rule. Mr. Butler stated that Empress is ready to sell one
of its two vessels. Mr. Butler stated that the Empress barge project was completed last May,
which replaced Empress’ two vessels with one barge operation. Mr. Butler stated that as a
result of the replacement, the two vessels that Empress had were placed for sale with a
broker. Mr. Butler stated that Empress is requesting a waiver of the Two-Meeting rule today
because Empress has a willing buyer, who is ready to buy the vessel now. Mr. Butler stated
that Empress would like to close this transaction in April.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board waive the two meeting requirement of Board
Rule 3000.105(e) and permit Empress Casino, Inc. to present for Board approval its
5

 request for sale of vessel. Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Butler stated that Empress has executed an agreement of sale for the Empress Vessel #2
to Palm Beach Empress, Inc. subject to the Board’s approval. Mr. Butler stated that the
purchase price is $3.8 million dollars. Mr. Butler stated that Empress has received a $380
thousand dollar deposit. Mr. Butler stated that Palm Beach has performed their inspection,
Argosy and Empress has done its due diligence, which Empress has shared with Staff, and
Empress has answered all questions that Staff has raised concerning the sale.
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve Empress Casino Inc.’s request to sell the M/V Empress II consistent with the
terms of the purchase and sale agreement executed by Empress Casino, Inc. and Palm
Beach Empress, Inc.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board delegate to the administrator, under Board
Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of the appropriate
documentation. Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Public Commentary
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association, was present. Mr.
Swoik thanked the Board and Staff for allowing the Illinois casinos to get TITO. Mr. Swoik
was present to discuss how the casino industry is good for Illinois’ economy. Mr. Swoik
briefed the Board on the goods and services that were provided by vendors in the State of
Illinois during the year 2004.
Mr. Swoik introduced Doug Whitley, President of the Illinois Chamber.
Mr. Whitley expressed his concerns about the economy of the State of Illinois. Mr. Whitley
briefed the Board on how the economic and job climate in the State of Illinois has changed
over the last year.
Mr. Swoik stated that a couple of months ago Member Peterlin requested that the Illinois
Casino Gaming Association develop a combined vendor list for the Illinois vendors that the
casinos use. Mr. Swoik stated that the list was completed last week, and the eight member
casinos are using that vendor list. Mr. Swoik stated that the eight Illinois casinos used 2279
Illinois vendors last year for the purchase of their goods and services.
Tom Grey, Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was present
to discuss the Board’s responsibility to regulate. Mr. Grey stated that the Illinois Gaming
Board Act requires that the public confidence and trust in the credibility and integrity of
gambling operations and regulatory process be maintained. Mr. Grey stated that the only way

6

 the citizens of the State of Illinois can have confidence is if the citizens believe that there is
integrity in operations of the regulatory process.
Mr. Grey pointed out that the Act also talks about regulatory provisions that are designed to
strictly regulate the facilities, persons, association, and practices. Mr. Grey stated that that
means every aspect should be regulated – including the community.
Mr. Grey stated that it seems to him that the Board has welcomed the politics, and opened
the door to the “outfit”. Mr. Grey stated that those reasons disqualify the Board from any
further decision-making in which the public would have any confidence.
Derrick Mosley, Bringing About Reform, was present to express his support and respect for
the Chairman and Board members and the decisions that they made regarding the 10th
license. Mr. Mosley stated that in regards to the 10th license, he is very disappointed in what
has developed. Mr. Mosley stated that he has a problem with the investigation of Isle of
Capri and Rosemont. Mr. Mosley stated that an investigation after the fact is a waste of the
taxpayers money. Mr. Mosley stated that he feels that the call for an investigation is
“political grandstanding.” Mr. Mosley stated that he is very confidant that once the
investigation is complete, Rosemont will be cleared.
Mr. Mosley expressed his concern with people who use their position of power for their own
personal agenda such as Senator Emil Jones, who was an advocate of Chairman
Higginbottom, but the moment the winner of the 10th license was chosen, Senator Jones
questioned Chairman Higginbottom’s integrity.
James Blue, Citizens of Des Plaines Against Gambling Expansion was present to discuss the
City of Des Plaines and why it should not be chosen for the 10th license in the event that Isle
of Capri is found unsuitable to hold keep the license.
Mr. Blue stated noted that there are allegations of a link between a City of Des Plaines staff
member and organized crime. Mr. Blue stated that if the situation develops to where the City
of Des Plaines is once again being considered for a license, the citizens of Des Plaines would
like to call upon the Board to utilize the talent of the Staff to conduct a very thorough
investigation.
Board Members Comments
In response to Attorney General Lisa Madigan’s request, each Board member provided the
following explanations as to why they made the decision that they did regarding the 10th
license:
Chairman Elzie Higginbottom
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board took time away from its businesses and busy
schedules to serve the people of the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he

7

 does not intend to change his career in the real estate business to go into the gaming business.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he does not intend to benefit in any way from the
Board’s decision. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he does not have “ a horse in this
race.” Chairman Higginbottom stated that he voted in what he thought was the best interest
of the people of the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would
send the Attorney General a more formal letter with a copy of the Board members’ rational
as to how they voted.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board did not ignore its Staff. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that he resents the fact that people said that the Board ignored its Staff.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that maybe the Board did not agree with everything that Staff
presented to the Board, but the Board did not ignore Staff. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that he has said time and time again how much respect that he has for the very professional
Staff that the Board has. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he has been criticized by
members of the press as well as the Board's’ own Staff members for making a statement that
the Staff is bureaucrats. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if you look up the word
bureaucrat in the dictionary, it is not derogatory in any matter, as a matter of fact, it is
complimentary. Chairman Higginbottom stated that any individual who can follow a very
rigid set of forms and conditions is a very competent, capable individual.
Chairman Higginbottom stated to Staff that they are aware of how much respect that he has
for them and how hard he has worked with them to arrive at this point. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that he has not always agreed with Staff, but in this one particular case
where the Board does not agree with Staff, a big issue is made out of it. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that no one makes a big issue when the Board and Staff do not agree on
other things. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is at a loss for trying to understand what
people mean. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the public, press, and everyone else needs
to understand that his vote was in the best interest of the people of the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he has a great deal of respect for Attorney General Lisa
Madigan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General took over the process.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General crafted a document that was
acceptable to her, the Board, Emerald Casino, Inc., and the bankruptcy judge. Chairman
Higginbottom commended the Attorney General for the terrific job that she did.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the process was a fair, open and competitive process that
was completely transparent. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he resents the kind of
implications that there was fix in the process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he has
worked too hard and spent too many years in this community developing his career and
reputation to let someone that he does not even know destroy it. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that he has never met Mayor Stephens or any of the people at the Isle of Capri.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he does know almost all of the investors in the other two
proposals.

8

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that he agrees that it is not the Board’s responsibility to fill
the hole in the budget of the State of Illinois; however, if there is a process that permits a
windfall, he believes that the windfall should be maximized. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that when you think about the fact that the Isle of Capri deal paid $42 million dollars more to
the State of Illinois, you also think about the number of community health centers and
daycare centers that the $42 million dollars would go towards funding.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he agrees that the Board has a very competent and
capable Staff. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Staff has a system in place for catching
people who commit infractions at the facilities that the Board regulates.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the reason that the Board is here today is because the
system worked. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Emerald Casino, Inc. was “playing
around” and the very competent and capable Staff caught Emerald Casino, Inc. and moved to
revoke their license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he resents the fact that the press has
everybody “at each other’s throat.” Chairman Higginbottom urged the media to let the
system work. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the license is not forever – it is a one-year
license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if there are any infractions of the Board’s rules
and regulations, Isle of Capri would be dealt with appropriately.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that his term on this Board will be expiring soon and he does
not know whether or not he would even consider being re-appointed. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that he took the job because he was a citizen of this great State and he
felt that he needed to give something back. Chairman Higginbottom stated that when he
considers all of the hassle that he and his family had to go through as a result of all of this
unfavorable media attention and the bickering back and forth, he realizes that perhaps he
should not give something back by serving on the Board.
Chairman Higginbottom urged the media and politicians to be careful because pretty soon
they would not be able to find a decent individual who would want to sit on a Board and
oversee a bureaucracy.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he does not have an agenda, he does not have a “horse in
this race.” Chairman Higginbottom stated that he wants to do what’s good for the people of
the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that with the budget crunch in Illinois,
the selection that the Board made was proper and appropriate.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board oversees nine other facilities. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the public has not heard any kind of improprieties in those facilities
that the Board has not dealt with.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that if you have three finalists and only have one available
license, there is going to be two people that will be upset, especially with the amount of
money that is at stake.

9

 Member William Dugan
Member Dugan stated that after the Board took the vote on the 10th license, the Attorney
General stated that she would like to meet with the Board to find out why the Board voted
the way that they did. Member Dugan stated that he didn’t have a problem with that.
Member Dugan stated that Member Higginbottom sent a letter to the Attorney General
informing her of today’s (April 8, 2004) meeting and that she is welcome to come and talk to
the Board in Closed session. Member Dugan stated that the Attorney General declined the
offer to meet in Closed session because she felt that there had been enough meetings held in
Closed session. Member Dugan stated that he does not know exactly what the Attorney
General meant by saying that there had been enough meetings held in Closed session, but
there is nothing that goes on in Closed session that he would be ashamed to talk about in the
Open session. Member Dugan stated that every Closed session meeting is taped. Member
Dugan stated that the Attorney General could hear the tapes anytime that she wants. Member
Dugan stated that the Attorney General said that she would attend the Open session portion
of today’s (April 8, 2004) meeting. Member Dugan stated that the Board showed up but the
Attorney General did not.
Member Dugan stated that the Board had an agreement put together a year ago. Member
Dugan stated that when the agreement was put together, he thought that the Board had finally
got the job done that the Board was put here to do. Member Dugan stated that when it came
down to the analysis that the Board approved, the Attorney General said that she wasn’t
completely satisfied and that she wanted an audit done. Member Dugan stated that the Board
did the audit, which cost the State $25,000. Member Dugan stated that after the audit was
conducted, the Board thought that they were finally ready to move forward. Member Dugan
stated that the Attorney General put five more things on the table. Member Dugan stated that
the Board asked that the Attorney General put those five things in writing. Member Dugan
stated that it took another month to get a letter back from the Attorney General with those
five things in writing. Member Dugan stated that he has come to the conclusion that he does
not think that the Attorney General wants a license up and running in the State of Illinois – at
least not right now. Member Dugan stated that if the State received $400 million more
dollars, maybe the Governor could take that money and start building roads, fixing schools,
and building bridges for the construction workers. Member Dugan stated that if the
Governor could get the money and put it to work, it might make him look good. Member
Dugan stated that maybe the Attorney General does not want the Governor to look good.
Member Dugan stated that he has traveled the north side of Chicago form Irving Park north
all the way up to the Wisconsin line for 24 years – that was his district. Member Dugan
stated that he knows Rosemont and the surrounding areas well. Member Dugan stated that
there is not a doubt in his mind that a casino in Rosemont would accumulate more money for
the State of Illinois than any other possible location that the Board could pick.
10

 Member Dugan stated that every year that goes by and the Board does not have a casino up
and running will cost the State hundreds of millions of dollars. Member Dugan asked why
would the State lose the money when it doesn’t have to.
Member Dugan stated that he is very disappointed in the Attorney General. Member Dugan
stated to the media and the public that the Governor will probably get his five minutes in the
media to explain his side, the Attorney General will get her five minutes in the media to
explain her side, and that he would probably only get a minute in the media to explain his
side. Member Dugan stated that at least his one minute would be the truth.
Member Violet Clark
Member Clark read the following statement in response Attorney General Lisa Madigan’s
inquiries as to why the Board selected Isle of Capri as the final bidder:
In June 2002, I was appointed to the Illinois Gaming Board. At that time I took an oath, and
pledged that I would serve and conduct business in the best interest of the people of the State
of Illinois. Throughout my tenure on the board, I have done exactly as I promised.
On March 15, 2004, I made the single most difficult and complicated decision of my term.
On that day, based on the consideration of more than 15 different factors, I decided to vote to
select Isle of Capri Casinos, Inc. as the winning bid for the purchase of Emerald Casino Inc.,
and the state’s 10th gaming license.
My decision was based, in significant part, on the following: first, the bidding procedures
used to sell Emerald were approved by the Attorney General’s office, the Gaming Board, and
the bankruptcy court. Those procedures provided for the appointment of an independent,
experienced investment banker to oversee the sale of Emerald.
The bankruptcy court, with the approval of the Attorney General and this Board, appointed
the New York City firm, Rothschild Inc. as the court appointed investment banker. In
accordance with the bidding procedures, Rothschild had an obligation to select not only the
highest, but in its expert and professional opinion, the best bid for the purchase of Emerald
and the 10th gaming license.
The bidding procedures called for a three-stage process. The first stage involved the
solicitation of binding proposals from gaming companies interested in bidding on Emerald.
After the initial submission of bids, the bidding procedures required this board to select the
top three bids from those initially submitted and to designate one of the final three bids as the
leading bid. Thereafter, the bidding procedures provided for an auction among the final three
bidders. At the conclusion of the auction, the court-appointed investment banker was then
required to recommend the highest and best bid. Also, pursuant to the bidding procedures,
the Board was to designate the bidder chosen by Rothschild as the winning bid. Failure to do

11

 so would have required the Board to issue a written statement detailing the reasons we did
not accept the investment banker’s recommendation.
After a careful and thorough review of Rothschild’s recommendation and an independent
review of the regulatory factors, I decided to adopt Rothschild’s recommendation.
The second significant factor in my decision was that the Isle of Capri bid results in the state
receiving the most money when the sale closes and during the first five years after Isle of
Capri begins its operations. The final three bids were as follows : Isle of Capri in Rosemont
bid $518 million; Harrah’s in Waukegan bid $520 million and Midwest gaming in Des
Plaines bid $476 million.
In my opinion, the Isle of Capri bid was better than the Midwest bid in the following
respects: first, the Isle of Capri bid exceeded the Midwest bid by $42 million. In addition,
Isle of Capri was able to secure the commitment from Rosemont to forego its $45 million
claim for the garage construction if Isle of Capri’s bid prevailed. This resulted in a total of
$87 million more to the state than was provided by the Midwest bid.
Second, the Isle of Capri bid guaranteed that the casino would be up and running within eight
months and guaranteed a late payment of $500,000 per day as a late penalty, subject to an
aggregate cap of $105 million, for each day over the estimated eight-month deadline.
Midwest did not match the guarantee and did not offer an estimate of when it would be up
and running.
Similarly, the Isle of Capri bid was better than the Harrah’s bid. Although the Harrah’s bid
was $2 million dollars higher than the Isle bid, it did not account for the $45 million dollar
liability. The net effect, therefore, was that the Isle of Capri bid resulted in $43 million
dollars more being contributed to the state than the Harrah’s bid.
In addition, the Isle of Capri bid resulted in the license becoming operational in the shortest
time frame. Again, the Isle of Capri bid guaranteed that the casino would be operational
within in eight months. In contrast, the Harrah’s bid estimated that it would take an
additional four months (a total of one year) to become operational.
Finally, the Isle of Capri bid promised more tax revenues to the state overall than did the
Harrah’s bid.
The Isle of Capri bid was better than both the Harrah’s bid and the Midwest bid in the
following additonal respects. First by locating to Rosemont, the Isle of Capri offered an
already existing infrastructure (for example, the convention center, Allstate arena, existing
hotels, etc…) which neither Harrah’s nor the Midwest bids could match.
Second, the Isle of Capri bid resulted in Rosemont agreeing to share 80% of its tax revenue
with 71 municipalities as compared to Waukegan sharing 25% of its tax revenue with 5
municipalities and Des Plaines sharing 25% of its tax revenue with 10 municipalities.
12

 In addition, the Isle of Capri revenue sharing proposal will likely serve approximately 39,500
families living at or near the poverty level, as compared to only 4,200 with the Midwest bid.
The third significant factor in my decision is Isle of Capri’s proven track record of
employing women and minorities in upper level and/ or managerial positions throughout the
company. According to Isle of Capri’s bid, 56% of its employees are women. In addition,
30% of Isle of Capri’s managers are women. Further, minorities represent 42% of Isle of
Capri’s employees and 25% of its management. More significantly, women and minorities
combined represent 24% of Isle of Capri’s general managers.
These facts are not significant only because they evidence Isle of Capri’s commitment to
affirmative action. They are significant because one of the regulatory factors considered was
“economic development.” Although revenue sharing is one way to enhance economic
development, it is not the only way. Another way to enhance economic development is to
put money directly in the hands of the residents of the state of Illinois by creating job
opportunities at all levels of the organization. Gaming is in an extremely lucrative industry.
However, the vast majority of the women and minorities employed in the industry in Illinois
are in lower level, and less skilled positions. Although most companies promote from
within, a disproportionately few women and minorities manage to rise to the upper levels
especially on the operations side. As Isle of Capri has shown, it does not have to be this way.
On March 25th , I received a letter from the Attorney General, Lisa Madigan asking me to
answer five questions. The first question was: “why was Rosemont favored?” My response
is Rosemont was not favored. As set forth above, I followed Rothschild’s recommendation
and selected Isle of Capri’s bid as being the best for the state of Illinois.
The attorney general also states that “Rosemont had an advantage over other bidders based
solely on its prior conduct.” Contrary to that statement, Rosemont was not a bidder. Isle of
Capri was the bidder. As far as I know, Isle of Capri had not engaged in any prior conduct
that would disqualify it from being selected. The Attorney General seems to suggest that the
board should hold Isle of Capri responsible for emerald’s conduct. I am not willing to do
that. She also suggests that the board should have “punished” Rosemont for it’s contracting
with Emerald by not selecting the Isle of Capri bid. However, Isle of Capri was not involved
in that transaction. Therefore, the failure to select Isle of Capri on that basis, in my opinion,
would have, been inappropriate and would have resulted in punishing it for something in
which it was not involved. I refuse to do that too.
Finally, the Attorney General states that if the Board was going to use the fact that Rosemont
is a place of destination as one of the criteria, “the bidders should have been informed of this
factor.” Similarly, if the Attorney General is going to reject Rosemont as an acceptable
location for the 10th license based on information she has as the result of the Emerald
litigation, this too should have been communicated to all of the bidders at the beginning of
the auction process.

13

 The second question presented was: “why were the IGB staff recommendations ignored?”
This question assumes that I ignored the Staff’s recommendations. I did not.
I have a great deal of respect for all of the Gaming Board staff. The staff has done a
tremendous job dealing with some very difficult issues. The staff has put in countless hours
reading through all of the documents, interviewing bidders, etc.
I spent a significant number hours reviewing the staff recommendations and supporting
documents and discussing them with Staff and other Board members during the many
meetings we had related to the bidding process. However, in this case, I chose not to follow
the Staff’s recommendation with respect to the selection of the Isle of Capri bid. The reasons
that I did not follow the staff’s recommendation include: one, the bidding procedures
required the Board to adopt the recommendation of Rothschild, which I agreed with and did.
Two, I felt that if I followed the Staff’s recommendation I would have been punishing Isle of
Capri for the conduct of Emerald.
Further, in my opinion, several of the issues raised by the Staff were more appropriately
considered during the suitability phase of the process. In other words, to me, the selection of
the best bid and the suitability of the bidder are independent and are subject to different
processes. Therefore, the fact that I believe that the Isle of Capri bid is the best bid, does not
have an impact on the suitability investigation. That will follow after the bankruptcy case is
resolved and Isle of Capri is able to submit an application for the license to the Gaming
Board and a full suitability investigation is completed.
The third question asked was: “how did the board overcome the evidence of problems with
Rosemont?”
During the bidding process I was not presented with any evidence of Rosemont related
problems concerning Isle of Capri. As I previously stated, it is my opinion that those issues
are more appropriate for the suitability phase of the process.
In addition, to the extent there are concerns going forward about Rosemont as an appropriate
location, as the regulatory body, the Board can require Isle of Capri, as its licensee, to
provide additional safeguards to ensure that any concerns are addressed.
The fourth question asked was: “how has the IGB addressed concerns regarding the
suitability of the Goldstein family and how will the IGB address these issues during the
suitability review?”
As the question suggests, the appropriate time to address the issues raised about Mr.
Goldstein and his family is during the suitability investigation. However, based on the
information that I had from the Gaming Board staff at the time I made my decision, the fines
that have been levied against Mr. Goldstein are not unusual in the gaming industry. In fact,
current licensees have had significantly higher fines assessed against them for similar

14

 conduct. However, these issues will be examined by the staff in detail during the suitability
review.
The final question asked was: “has the IGB addressed the Isle of Capri’s serious financial
concerns and how will the IGB address these issues in the suitability review?”
Again, as the question suggests, an additional analysis of Isle of Capri’s financial position
will be undertaken as part of the suitability determination. However, with respect to the
company’s financial status, the fact that Isle of Capri’s bankers and financial advisors were
present throughout the auction process and supported its bid, coupled with the fact that
Rothschild recommended Isle of Capri notwithstanding the financial concerns are persuasive.
Therefore, I decided that notwithstanding the issues regarding Isle of Capri’s financial
position, the selection of the Isle of Capri bid was in the best interest of the State of Illinois.
On March 15th , I voted to accept the Isle of Capri bid for the purchase of Emerald and of the
10th casino license. It was a good decision when I made it and notwithstanding all of the
criticism and all of the attacks that have been leveled against me and the other members of
this Board, it remains a good decision today.
Member William Fanning
Member Fanning stated that the Board was asked what it was thinking when it made its
decision. Member Fanning stated that he was thinking of the legislative intent. Member
Fanning stated that Section 2(a) of the Riverboat Gambling Act was amended on June 20,
2003. Member Fanning read from Section 2(a) of the Riverboat Gambling Act that the Act
is intended to benefit the people of the State of Illinois by assisting economic development,
promoting Illinois tourism, and by increasing the amount of revenues to the State to assist
and support education. Member Fanning stated that he took that as a challenge. Member
Fanning stated that on March 15, 2004, the Board walked into the Gaming Board office and
Staff had assembled the numerous amount of reports into a logical format that the Board
could use. Member Fanning stated that the information that Staff provided were comments
as it related to the specific items that were addressed either in the Riverboat Gambling Act or
voiced by fellow Board members as important. Member Fanning stated that he tried to
address the intent of the Riverboat Gambling Act.
Member Fanning stated that in regards to the increased amount of revenues available to the
State, his thoughts were that the financial projections provided by the Staff indicated that the
Isle of Capri’s proposal would provide the most money to the State initially. Member
Fanning stated that over a ten-year period, Midwest Gaming’s proposal would offer the most
money to the State. Member Fanning stated that Harrah’s proposal was projected to provide
the least amount of money to the State over a ten-year period. Member Fanning stated that
when you prepare a projection you have to work with a couple of assumptions. Member
Fanning stated that one of the assumptions is how many people are going to go into the
casino, and the other assumption is how much money are people going to lose in the casino.
Member Fanning stated that as you look at the numbers used in the projections, the
15

 Rosemont location over a ten-year period is 10 million more people than the Midwest
location. Member Fanning stated that Harrah’s was again far behind. Member Fanning
stated that Rosemont was having 10 million more people come into their casino over a tenyear period. Member Fanning stated that to him it makes sense for Isle of Capri to be
selected as the winning bid. Member Fanning stated that the Convention Center is right
across the street from the casino. Member Fanning stated that with the Convention Center
across the street and people flying in everyday to have business meetings at the Convention
Center, those same people will be looking for something to do at night. Member Fanning
stated that after they have a steak at Gibsons, they might wander over to the casino. Member
Fanning stated that it makes sense to him that there may be more people at the Rosemont
facility than up the road in Des Plaines and further up the road at Harrah’s. Member Fanning
stated that what didn’t make sense is that for some odd reason, the people had anticipated to
lose $18 per person less in Rosemont than in Des Plaines. Member Fanning stated that the
casinos would be catering to the exact same clientele, so how could they possibly lose $18
less. Member Fanning stated that when you take the assumption that Rosemont is going after
the same people, will have the same patrons and losing the same amount of money, those 10
million extra patrons over ten years produce a significant larger amount of money to the
State of Illinois as opposed to Des Plaines. Member Fanning stated that based on that
information was the reason why he felt that the Isle of Capri proposal would provide the
most revenue to the State of Illinois.
Member Fanning stated that on the point of economic development, he thought that clearly
Waukegan needed more than the other two locations. Member Fanning stated that his
concern about Waukegan was that there would have been a market within a 15-mile radius of
the site. Member Fanning stated that he was concerned about the people within the radius of
the site and the heightened level of unemployment in that area. Member Fanning stated that
he felt that those people would be enticed and tempted to the casino and were the least able
to go there and lose their money. Member Fanning stated that he thought that the Board
would be doing a social injustice by putting a temptation right within the area where
Harrah’s was going to market. Member Fanning stated that Harrah’s later stated that they
were going to do a 25-mile radius, but again it would be too much of a temptation. Member
Fanning stated that Harrah’s also thought that 30% of its attendants would be coming from
Wisconsin. Member Fanning stated that he was concerned that if in fact that did happen,
Wisconsin wouldn’t stand for it for long and would put up a casino at the boarder, which
would truly jeopardize the operation at the Waukegan site. Member Fanning stated that
Harrah’s wanted to be a destination site, but to be a destination site you have to have hotels
and reasons other than the casino to come there, which Harrah’s said would come in two
stages. Member Fanning stated that he was concerned that Harrah’s would not get to stage
two. Member Fanning stated that it was based on that, among other things, that he could not
vote for Harrah’s.
Member Fanning stated that he didn’t choose Des Plaines because he felt that Rosemont had
a better opportunity to be immediately successful. Member Fanning stated that by saying
that he does not mean that Rosemont has the parking facility already up, or that they will be
open in nine months as opposed to twelve months. Member Fanning stated that the casino is
16

 going to have 1200 gaming positions. Member Fanning stated that Rosemont has 6000 hotel
rooms. Member Fanning stated that to his knowledge, Des Plaines does not have any hotels.
Member Fanning stated that if 10% of the people come out of the hotels at night in Rosemont
and go over to the casino, that’s half of the casino. Member Fanning stated that many of the
hotel rooms are in walking distance. Member Fanning stated that he thinks that it is fair to
assume that these people are out-of-state people. Member Fanning stated that everyone’s
concern is about Illinois taxpayers losing money at the casino. Member Fanning stated that
if these are people coming in from other states and losing money, it is a win-win situation for
the state – it’s “fresh money.”
Member Fanning stated that he felt that the Convention Center would benefit greatly from
the casino. Member Fanning stated that Illinois has been losing convention business to other
states in recent years. Member Fanning stated that he felt that the casino would bring some
of the business back to the State of Illinois. Member Fanning stated that studies indicate that
the more that is available for convention attendants to do after hours, the more demand for
the conventions at that site.
Member Fanning stated that regarding the Goldstein family and their suitability, the fines are
the “muscle” to enforce the compliance in this industry. Member Fanning stated that to his
understanding, the Godsteins being banned from operating in Illinois has been based on one
person’s recollection of a conversation that might have taken place, and possibly never even
communicated some ten years ago. Member Fanning stated that nothing was found
committed to writing about such a serious accusation, and Staff never raised any concerns.
Member Fanning stated that on March 15th a comment was made that the Goldstein family is
not a major sinner compared to some of the other fines levied in the State on existing
operators in good standing.
Member Fanning stated that regarding the financial concerns of the Isle of Capri, it didn’t
preclude Rothschild from recommending them. Member Fanning stated that he considers
Rothschild the expert and did not give great consideration to the decision. Member Fanning
stated that he subsequently found out that the Isle of Capri’s finances and ratios are in fact
better than some of the major resorts in Las Vegas. Member Fanning stated that the ratings
industry reaffirmed their ratings shortly after the March 15th decision was made. Member
Fanning stated that it is his understanding that Isle of Capril recently did some refinancing at
7%. Member Fanning stated that the Attorney General referred to Isle of Capri’s credit rating
as junk. Member Fanning stated that he read that Donald Trump’s casinos are currently
paying 12%. Member Fanning stated that apparently junk is a term that includes 7%.
Member Fanning stated that he thought that 7% was a good rating.
Member Gary Peterlin
Member Peterlin stated that he was not asked to respond by the Attorney General because he
responded differently than the other Board members.

17

 Member Peterlin stated that originally the Illinois Gaming Board Act stated that the Act is
intended to benefit the people in the State of Illinois by assisting economic development and
promoting Illinois tourism. Member Peterlin stated that the amended Act adds that it is
intended to benefit the people in the State of Illinois by increasing the amount of revenues
available to the State, to assist and support education. Member Peterlin stated that the State
of Illinois is on a money chase and there are a lot of expectations that gaming is going to
produce money to fill the gaps in the budget. Member Peterlin stated that unfortunately,
money has become to important with respect to legislative intent and often times when you
look at money as the main goal, it can very easily overshadow some of the other concerns
that are also part of the legislative intent. Member Peterlin stated that the Board is at a
crossroad in gaming today. Member Peterlin stated that the Board has worked very hard.
Member Peterlin stated over the pasty year or so, he has been told that the Board is going to
be absorbed into another agency, gaming is going to be regulated by another agency or that
the Board is going to be gone. Member Peterlin stated that the constant during all of that is
that the Board kept working. Member Peterlin stated that the constant during all of that is
that Staff kept working very hard. Member Peterlin stated that the Board is very diverse.
Member Peterlin stated that the reasons that the Board gave for the decision in choosing Isle
of Capri were very well thought out. Member Peterlin stated that he has been impressed with
the things that the Board had to say and he has been impressed with them as Board members.
Member Peterlin stated that he has been impressed with Staff. Member Peterlin stated that as
a Board they are all impressed with Staff. Member Peterlin stated that Staff is headed by
Interim Administrator Jeannette Tamayo. Member Peterlin stated that the Board voted
months ago to increase Interim Administrator Tamayo’s pay but it has not happened.
Member Peterlin stated that Mark Ostrowski, who is head of the Legal department, is a
veteran lawyer of 15 years. Member Peterlin stated that Jim Wagner heads up the
Investigations department, who is a 31-year veteran of the FBI, with 30 years covering
organized crime. Member Peterlin stated that Mr. Wagner is understaffed right now.
Member Peterlin stated that Joe Haughey led the Enforcement division and is a 25-year
member of the Chicago Police Department, with the last eight years spent with the Illinois
State Police. Member Peterlin stated that Mr. Haughey is also a licensed attorney. Member
Peterlin stated that Mr. Haughey has been terminated from the Gaming Board, but no reasons
were given. Member Peterlin stated that he understands that a nice gentleman, Luis Tigera,
was sent to replace Mr. Haughey and that the Board has no issue with him because he will be
needed with all the work that needs to be done. Member Peterlin asked why are people being
replaced with no reasons. Member Peterlin asked why are so many employees being
replaced when there is so much work to be done. Member Peterlin asked why is it that the
Gaming Board is so understaffed, and why are there continuous staff reductions. Member
Peterlin stated that if the Board is going to continue to adequately and competently police
gaming in Illinois, the Board has to make sure that the regulatory process is in place with
competent, caring, dedicated Staff. Member Peterlin stated that Board members will come
and go, but the institutional memory and the stability in gaming will be the Staff. Member
Peterlin stated that it is very important that Staff aren’t pushed aside or replaced without
reason. Member Peterlin stated that Staff must remain above politics, remain above
reproach, and remain independent. Member Peterlin stated Robert Shapiro, Special Assistant
18

 Attorney General, was conducting work on the Board’s behalf and all of a sudden the Board
was told that Mr. Shaprio shouldn’t be involved anymore, and that he should be replaced.
Member Peterlin stated that the Board said “no” to that. Member Peterlin stated that the
Board has to have some control over its staff.
Member Peterlin stated that Staff is negotiating with Emerald. Member Peterlin stated that
Staff has been going to meetings and all of a sudden a non-employee, who does not work for
state government, becomes the person leading at the negotiation table. Member Peterlin
asked what does that say to Staff, to the industry and to the people who are observing the
gaming industry. Member Peterlin stated that he feels that it was a real slap in the face to
Staff.
Member Peterlin stated that Staff has work to do – the suitability phase still has to be
completed. Member Peterlin stated that nine present licenses have to be constantly
regulated, 23 suppliers have to be regulated. Member Peterlin stated that every employee
that works in gaming has to be passed over and checked on initially and then there has to be
constant supervision. Member Peterlin stated that it is a tremendous amount of work that
needs to be done. Member Peterlin stated that if the Board and Staff are not allowed to have
the adequate number of people in place and if they are replaced without reason, the Board
has a very weak point in the area of regulation. Member Peterlin stated that if the Board has
a weak point that is created by some of the staffing issues and concerns, that is the time that
unwanted forces can seize opportunity and take control. Member Peterlin stated that Illinois
doesn’t want that, they want their gaming to be of highest integrity and public confidence.
Member Peterlin stated that the Act demands that the Board has credibility, integrity and
public confidence. Member Peterlin stated that to have anything less than that would be
letting down the public.
Member Peterlin stated that he feels that the Board has to concentrate on making sure that
Staff is adequately provided with what they need, that the adequate training is there, the time
frames are there, and that they are allowed to do their job. Member Peterlin stated that the
Board has confidence in Staff, though they may not always agree with them, but that’s
independence. Member Peterlin stated that in dealing with the Board, Staff has the
confidence to speak out and make the recommendations. Member Peterlin stated that they
must continue to have that confidence and continue to be allowed to do that.
Member Peterlin thanked Staff for the hard work that they are doing and welcomed Luis
Tigera, Deputy Administrator of Enforcement. Member Peterlin stated that he was sorry to
see Joseph Haughey, former Deputy Administrator of Enforcement, leave.
Member Peterlin told Staff to hang in there. Member Peterlin stated that Staff should have
job security, confidence, and should know why they are being replaced.
Chairman Elzie Higginbottom

19

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that he would like to echo all of the Board members’
comments, from Member Peterlin’s comments to Member Dugan’s comments. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that when you look at the Board, you see a very diverse Board – people
who come from all different walks of life, people who are trying to do the best for the
citizens for the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that there are those who will take what was said today and
put a spin on it so that it would meet their goals and objectives. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the five people that made the decision for the citizens of the State of Illinois made
the decision with a great deal of thought, input, and a true belief that if you put a fortythousand square foot facility in Rosemont, the Board would be able to manage it and make
sure that the facility offers confidence to the Gaming Board.
Chairman Higginbotom stated that a location in Rosemont is clearly the best location.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that his background is in the real estate business. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that in the real estate business there are three key principals: location,
location, and location. Chairman Higginbottom stated that in his opinion as a real estate
man, the facility in Rosemont would produce more revenue than any other facility.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that there are people who are going to say that the facility in
Rosemont is going to be “mobbed up.” Chairman Higginbottom stated that he submits to the
public that if the Board moves forward with the facility, it would not be “mobbed up”
because of the men and women in Staff. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if you put a
facility anywhere and it is not properly regulated, the mob will move in. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the mob is mobile – they do not just sit in one spot.
Chairman Higginbottom opened the meeting for the media to ask the Board members
questions.
Chairman Higginbottom apologized to the public, the press, and Attorney General Lisa
Madigan for the Board not having this type of forum when the announcement was made
regarding the winning bidder for the 10th license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
Board felt that they did have a press conference that was adequate.
In response to why the Board disagreed with Staff’s recommendation on the Country Club
Hills proposal, which would have shared revenue and provided jobs to some of the poorest
towns in the country, Member Fanning stated that Country Club Hills offer was at least $100
million dollars less than the other bids. Member Fanning stated that it seemed apparent to
the Board that Country Club Hills gave it their best shot with the initial offer. Member
Fanning stated that if Country Club Hills had been selected to go to the auction process, the
Board’s collective thought was that they would not be able to significantly increase their
offer.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that five communities in the Rosemont site are the same
communities that would have been included in the Country Club Hills site. Chairman
20

 Higginbottom stated that those communities come from the lowest end of the economic
level.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that if you look at the median income in Country Club Hills,
it is higher than the median income in both Rosemont and Waukegan. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that those statistics would make one believe that Country Club Hills is a
little bit better off than people are saying it is – that is not to say that Country Club Hills is
not in need.
When asked if the Board was surprised by the letter and the questions that were asked by the
Attorney General, Chairman Higginbottom stated that he felt that the letter offered a
challenge. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General represents the people of
the State of Illinois, as the Board does. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney
General is within her right to ask the Board to justify its decision.
When asked if the Board should have raised any of the Attorney General’s concerns earlier,
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he believes that if the Attorney General had concerns
regarding Rosemont, and did not want Rosemont to be involved in the process, the Attorney
General should have indicated it during the time that the settlement was being negotiated.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Attorney General, as well as the Board, said that any
community in the State of Illinois is eligible to house the 10th license. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that it is the responsibility of the Gaming Board to regulate that facility
and make sure that unsavory influences do not infiltrate.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Gaming Board regulates nine other facilities in the
State of Illinois, and the Attorney General does not ask the Board about those facilities.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he would hope that the Attorney General feels that the
Board is doing a good job at regulating the nine other facilities.
Member Clark was asked if the $45 million dollar garage built in Rosemont prior to approval
by the Board factored into the Board’s decision and, if so, if that could be looked at as
rewarding someone for circumventing the Board. Member Clark stated that in her view
Rosemont was not rewarded. Member Clark stated that Emerald has been punished for their
role in the building of the garage. Member Clark stated that Emerald was the Board’s
licensee and they had the obligation at that time. Member Clark stated that she understands
that Rosemont was involved; however, the citizens of Rosemont have actually ended up
paying for that and they should not be punished. Member Clark stated that to ignore that the
garage is there would be unrealistic.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that when he made his decision, he discounted the garage
altogether.
Member Clark stated that in theory there was nothing to prevent Midwest, for example, from
making a deal or working with Rosemont for the use of the garage since the proximity is so

21

 close. Member Clark stated that the garage did not give Rosemont an advantage over the
other locations.
In a question in reference to Mayor Donald Stephens and his acquittals, Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board’s job is to regulate a facility. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that there are other agencies and other parts of government that would deal
appropriately with Mr. Stephens. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if Mr. Stephens is
doing something that is in violation of the law, those agencies would do their job.
Member Clark added that in her view, the Board was not able to do similar investigations
with the other bidders. Member Clark stated that in her view, that is why the full
investigation is appropriate at the suitability phase. Member Clark stated that anybody
chosen would have to go through a detailed suitability phase. Member Clark stated that the
Board did not have information from the other locations because they weren’t subject to the
prior Emerald connection; therefore, full consideration of that issue is more appropriate at
another time.
The Board was asked when the Board and Staff received the subpoenas from the U.S.
Attorney’s Office pertaining to the Emerald Investigation, was there ever a concern that a
federal investigation could impede Rosemont.
Member Clark stated that the Board had the information available and it was part of the
process but she is not prepared to say at this time if it is or isn’t a concern because for her the
consideration will take place in the future.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that there were subpoenas and certainly there was concern by
the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that suitability does not take place until there is an
application for a license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that there cannot be an application
for the Emerald license until after the bankruptcy court approves a reorganization plan.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board did consider the subpoenas during the decision
making process; however, the Board does not know if the issues that would come up would
be adequate to cause this facility not to be located in Rosemont.
Member Peterlin was asked why he voted against Isle of Capri. Member Peterlin stated that
the Board accessed all of the criteria in different ways and he came up with a different
conclusion. Member Peterlin stated that there was no one particular reason why he voted the
way he did. Member Peterlin stated that enforcement challenges at the major urban area was
a consideration. Member Peterlin stated that some of the history of things that may have
taken place in Rosemont was a consideration. Member Peterlin stated that the shortage of
staff was an issue.
Member Peterlin expressed his concerns regarding the shortage of Staff.

22

 The Board was asked if Rosemont is not disqualified due to allegations and convictions,
what is to be said regarding Jack Binion, who did not have any convictions yet had his
license revoked. The Board was asked if there are there two standards at work.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Mr. Binion was a licensee and Rosemont is not the
licensee. Chairman Higginbottom stated the licensee is Isle of Capri.
The Board was asked if the Staff finds Isle of Capri unsuitable, would the Board turn down
Staff’s recommendation.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Staff can voice concerns about the Rosemont locations,
and the Board would have to address that when the Board gets to that point. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that at this particular point in time, the Board does not have sufficient
data to address that.
A member of the meida stated that Attorney General Lisa Madigan said that the Board
should consider the town that the 10th license would be located in. The Board was asked if
they disagree with that statement, and if so, how do they reconcile that with the fact that the
location (hotels and airports) was the primary factor in deciding who would get the 10th
license. The Board was asked how they could consider the location in one setting but not in
the other.
Member Clark stated that she looked at it in terms of what kinds of contracts and
relationships does the licensee have with the town. Member Clark stated that in her view,
Emerald ran into trouble with the contracts and relationships. Member Clark stated that to
her knowledge, Isle of Capri does not have that problem and have specifically stated that to
the extent that the Board has any concerns with respect to their contracts, documents, or
otherwise, they would do whatever it takes to meet the Board’s regulatory concerns.
Member Dugan was asked, based on his earlier response to the Attorney General’s questions,
if he felt that politics was driving the Attorney General.
Member Dugan stated that he feels that every time the Board would accomplish one thing,
the Attorney General would lay something else on the table. Member Dugan stated that there
has got to be a reason behind it; however, he does not know the reason. Member Dugan
stated that his comments earlier were his personal opinion.
The Board was asked how devastating would it be to get to this point and not see a 10th
license get up and running within the next two years.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that it would not be good for the taxpayers of the State of
Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that everything in society is dollars and cents.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that everyone has budgets that they have to try to meet.

23

 Chairman Higginbottom urged everyone to let the system work. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the system worked when it kicked the Flynns out of gaming in the State of Illinois
when they acted improperly.
Chairman Higginbottom was asked if the Governor’s administration attempted to dismiss
any members of Staff, would he fight to keep them.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he would fight, as he always has, for Staff. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that if the Board does not get Staff, they would not open the facility.
At 5:56 P.M., Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11),
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 6:34 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

24

 