THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the November 1, 2018, Meeting of the Legislative Committee
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest Preserve District
Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:30 am.
Trustees Present:

Diahann Goode (Chair), Robert DeGraff, John E. Fitzgerald, Lawrence
Wilson*(entered during Item 2), Joseph Nevius*, Dennis White (Entered during
Item 2)

Staff Present:

Brent Lewandowski, Interim Executive Director; Gary LeDonne, Director,
Benefits Administration; Michael Maratea, Director of Finance and
Administration; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor

Others Present:

Mary Pat Burns, Burke Burns & Pinelli; Regina Tuczak, Policeman’s Annuity
and Benefit Fund of Chicago

*Present as Trustees of the Board and not as Members of the Legislative Committee
Public Comment (None)
1. Approval of October 25, 2018, Legislative Committee Meeting Minutes
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the presented minutes of the
October 25, 2018, Legislative Committee be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2. Possible Consideration and Recommendation Regarding Legislative Consultant Presentation
Mr. John McCabe and Mr. Robert Molaro appeared before the Board on behalf of John McCabe &
Associates, Ltd., to present their qualifications to represent the Fund as its legislative representative before the
Illinois General Assembly. Mr. McCabe stated that he has served the Fund in this capacity for about ten years
and has also represented other local funds with Mr. Molaro. He described the services provided to the Fund
so that specific legislation requested by the Board was introduced and enacted. Mr. McCabe also described

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 his representation of the Fund when legislation for Tier 2 and Tier 3 were proposed by third parties and the
impact of such legislation on the Fund.
Mr. Molaro stated that he has had a long association with the Fund and served as a legal advisor to the Board.
He left the private practice of law when he began a career in the General Assembly. Mr. Molaro stated that
the Board’s legislative representatives can be proactive in Springfield as the Board might choose and that they
can provide frequent reports. He added that his long experience with pension legislation began in the 1980s
and continued throughout his tenure in the General Assembly. He left the legislature in 2009, and has been
engaged as a legislative representative since that time.
Mr. Molaro noted that the Intergovernmental Agreement with Cook County had allowed for additional
payment of employer contributions to the County Fund over the past few years. Mr. Molaro stated that any
funding legislation should be coordinated with the County to increase its chance of success before the General
Assembly.
At the conclusion of Mr. McCabe’s and Mr. Molaro’s presentations, the trustees discussed their qualifications
and responses to the RFP. The trustees noted that Mr. McCabe and Mr. Molaro had relationships with the
County that might assist in gaining the County’s support for possible funding legislation.
It was then moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the Legislative Committee
recommend to the Board that the engagement with John McCabe & Associates, Ltd. as the Fund’s legislative
representative, be extended for two years upon the same terms as the existing agreement.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3. Old Business/New Business
The trustees then discussed the status of the development of the rules and policies pending before the
Committee. It was noted that the proposed Employee Handbook was nearing completion, but that the rules
and policies regarding fiscal matters and procurement matters need additional preparation.
4. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Committee, it was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by
Trustee DeGraff that the meeting be adjourned.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 