MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 17 and JULY 18, 1995
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on July 17 & 18, 1995 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, J. William Roberts, and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey and Thomas Swoik, William O'Connor Legal Counsel to the Board,
other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m. on July 17, 1995 and
the Board immediately adjourned to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matter:
1.

Issues Concerning Applicants And Licensees.

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 2:02 p.m.
The Board reconvened in Closed Session at 9:00 a.m. on
July 18, 1995, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:04 p.m. on July 18.
Member Browder moved that the minutes from the open and closed sessions of the
Regular Meeting of June 20, 1995 be approved. Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire introduced Mareile Cusack, the newly hired Chief Legal
Counsel to the Board.

1

 The Administrator next reported that Adjusted Gross Receipts for June were $94.7
million, with Elgin Riverboat Resort recording the highest AGR total among licensees. For
the second successive month, the number of individuals who had been requested for
identification increased. Nearly, 2,000 person were turned away for not having proper
identification.
The Administrator noted that the Indiana Gaming Commission announced
preliminary licensure approval for two licenses in southeastern Indiana. Two companies
with Illinois roots were granted the awards. He further stated that the Alton Belle is up for
renewal again in October, 1995 and discussed the use of a draft rule, on ownership
renewal, to deal with this issue.
The Administrator reported that Circus Circus, part owner of the Elgin Riverboat
Casino, indicated that they had withdrawn their status as being preliminarily suitable for a
riverboat license in Chalmette, Louisiana.
The next order of business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
John Costello, representing the Empress River Casino, appeared and requested
approval for the transfer of ownership of 75 shares of stock (6.5% of the total outstanding
shares) owned by members of the Krug family.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the transfer of ownership interest in
Empress River Casino Corporation from three Empress shareholders to the remaining
shareholders. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Costello also requested approval for a proposed 102 room hotel costing
approximately $5 million. The Administrator stated that the proposal was evaluated at
staff level and Board approval was not needed. Chairman Johnson concurred.
Mr. Costello further requested approval for the renewal of a $1 million line of credit.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Empress' request to renew a one million
dollar line of credit with First National Bank of Lockport. Member Vickrey seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, Inc., requested approval to renew and
increase its line of credit with Harris Bank.
Member Roberts moved that the Board approve Casino Queen's request to renew
and increase a line of credit with Harris Trust & Savings from $1.2 million to $5 million.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice
vote.
Mr. Janicik also requested approval of Michael Growney to be a member of the
Board of Director's of Casino Queen. Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve

2

 Michael Growney as a member of the Board of Directors of Casino Queen, Inc. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was Proposals for Initial Consideration.
Donna More, representing the Casino Rock Island, requested the approval of a tax
abatement plan between the Casino Rock Island and the city of Rock Island. Ms. More
stated that the Rock Island City Counsel passed an ordinance encompassing the points
submitted to the Board and will approve this tax abatement plan at their
July 24, 1995 meeting.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule to consider the
agreement between Casino Rock Island and the city of Rock Island. Member Roberts
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator Belletire further commented that the City of Rock Island is in a
position to legally commit to this abatement plan, noting that Casino Rock Island ("CRI")
must first remit all taxes to the state. The Administrator also referenced correspondence
from CRI indicating that CRI intended to reduce existing indebtedness by $8 million -- a
fact that will significantly improve the final position of CRI.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the agreement between Casino
Rock Island and the City of Rock Island wherein the city rebates to the casino, taxes
received as a result of the casino's gaming operations. Member Roberts seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder stated that his vote of aye is in large part due to the report that
the Administrator made on this matter.
Susan Gouinlock, representing the Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc., notified the
Board of the acceptance of a capital contribution from the parent company, Hollywood
Casino Corporation, in the amount of $4 million.
Ms. Gouinlock also made preliminary notification of a refinancing plan, an
underwritten public offering of senior secured notes due in 2003. The offering would be by
Hollywood Casino Corporation. The majority of the funds ($200 million offering) will be
used to refinance Hollywood Casino Corp.'s existing debt.
Mike Ficaro, representing Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino, requested approval of
additional gaming positions.
Member Roberts moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule to consider the
increase of gaming positions. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.

3

 Member Roberts moved that the Board approve Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino's request to increase the number of gaming positions on the Players Riverboat
Casino from 857 to 907, subject to the approval by the Administrator, and required
changes to the Internal Control System or changes in surveillance deemed necessary by
the Administrator. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Steven Perskie, representing Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino, requested initial
consideration for the acquisition of a new riverboat or to run two boats simultaneously. He
also notified the Board that the parent company's capital commitment to Player's
Riverboat Casino, has increased from $5-10 million to $10-15 million.
Dennis Gallagher, representing Harrah's, notified the Board that the Harrah's
Southern Star would be replaced with another riverboat vessel of comparable size and
design.
The next order of business concerned Supplier's Licensure Items.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve IGT's application for renewal of its
Supplier's License. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Paul-Son Gaming Supplies'
application for renewal of its Supplier's License. Member Vickrey seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensure.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and approve
the applications for an Occupational License, Level 1, submitted by Jeffrey Bryson,
Michael Montag and Cynthia Simms. Member Roberts seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and approve
91 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 257 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level
2, and 4 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Roberts seconded
the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings.
Member Roberts moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and grant the application for an occupational license for Irene
Uecker. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously
by voice vote.

4

 Member Roberts moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and withdraw the Amended
Disciplinary Complaint filed against Timothy Dean. The complaint sought to suspend Mr.
Dean's license for ten days. However, Mr. Dean has relinquished his license to the Board
and no longer is employed within the jurisdiction of the Board. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved by voice vote.
Member Roberts moved that the Board deny the requests for hearing submitted by
the following individuals in that these requests failed to comply with Board Rule 3000.405.
Todd Vigneault
Michele Wilson
Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Roberts moved that the Board grant leave to Susan Welp to withdraw her
request for a hearing. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Complaints and Disciplinary Actions.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against William
Quigley be issued and that Mr. Quigley's license be revoked. The complaint involves Mr.
Quigley's admission to participating in criminal behavior. Member Vickrey seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board Policy Items.
Administrator Belletire discussed draft rule 3000.236 -- Owner's License Renewal
Process. The Board directed staff to submit the rule to the Secretary of State for
publication. The Board also approved the use of draft rule 3000.236 as a guideline for the
Alton Belle renewal process.
Peter Bensinger, representing Bensinger, DuPont & Associates, gave a status
report on the progress of the Board's compulsive gambling initiative. The Bensinger firm
assessed the training and capability of 270 service providers and determined 28 to be very
qualified to treat compulsive gamblers, 178 to be somewhat qualified but very interested in
training, 49 to be not interested in treatment or training. He stated that at each of the ten
docksites, interviews of management and staff were conducted. The following items were
discused: an awareness campaign, signs and symptoms of a compulsive gambler, and
where and how to access help. All riverboats expressed willingness to have a role in a
statewide initiative to reduce compulsive gambling. Mr. Bensinger recommended that a
statewide training program be initiated for all interested treatment providers and for
riverboat upper level management.

5

 The Board returned to a discussion of issues concerning Owner Licensees.
Ty Fahner, representing National Gaming Corporation ("NGC") appeared to request
approval of the acquisition of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation ("PGC") by National Gaming
Corporation ("NGC"), as well as approval of the financing arrangements, in connection
with the acquisition, and of the Form 1's of the Key Persons of NGC and proposed new
Key Persons of Par-A-Dice. Mr. Henry Silverman, Chairman of the Board, Mr. Robert
Kingsley, President, Mr. James Buckman, General Counsel and Mr. Stephen Holmes,
Chief Financial Officer were present. Mr. David Johnson of Merrill Lynch and Mr. Jerry
McConnell of Bankers Trust, the company's Financial advisors were also present to
answer any questions. Presentations were made by Mr. Fahner, Mr. McConnell and Mr.
Johnson.
The Administrator stated the evaluations presented to staff were overly optimistic
projections about the future growth of NGC and it would not be in the best interest for staff
to recommend approval of this transaction at this time.
Chairman Johnson raised several questions regarding NGC's financial projections
to service the debt that NGC will incur. He stated that the projections NGC made were
contradicted by what Illinois is experiencing.
Member Pyatt questioned Mr. McConnell when he mentioned the only risk that
Banker's Trust saw during their due diligence was a regulatory one. Mr. McConnell
responded that many other risk factors were considered but that the possible excess of
competition was the only substantial and significant risk.
Chairman Johnson expressed concern over possible legislative changes and the
adverse impact they would have on NGC financially.
Henry Silverman stated that he believes the projections submitted were realistic or
even conservative. He further stated that if the Board takes a position that financial
leverage is not permitted because of concern about future competition, that the value of
licensees in Illinois will be negatively impacted.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adjourn to Closed Session to discuss issues
concerning applicants and investigatory matters. Member Roberts seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 2:24
p.m.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 2:55 p.m.
The Board concluded that there were significant differences of opinion between
NGC and the Board staff as to the financial variables of this transaction and how they
could impact the financial viability of the license. The Board directed its staff to meet with

6

 the NGC staff to see whether or not there could be reconciliation of these differences of
evaluation and to report back at the next scheduled Board meeting.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 2:57 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

7

 