MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
January 15, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, January 15, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 10:54 A.M.
Present were Members Lee Gould, Maribeth Vander Weele and Michael Holewinski. Chairman
Aaron Jaffe participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 21, 2013 and December 19, 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski reviewed the 2013 year of video gaming. The Administrator stated that
2013 was the first full year in which video gaming was up and running. As of today, we have
over 3,900 licensed locations, 3,600 live locations and over 14,000 machines that are
functioning. The total tax revenue was just under $100M. Through last year approximately
7,300 video gaming licensee or designated persons investigations were completed.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
Member Holewinski read a statement prepared by the Board:
As you know in November, 2013 Chairman Jaffe proposed changes to rules related to video
gaming use agreements.
Staff prepared modifications to the rule. In the rule, staff referenced use agreements and placed
restrictions on their formation and assignment. The objective being that any person or entity unvetted in this activity would be vetted and licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board.
A list was to be created of individuals excluded from any involvement in video gambling. A
“blacklist” such as in Riverboats; excluding certain individuals from participating in gaming in
Illinois. This type of list is in place throughout the country in riverboat gaming and the video
gambling industry.
The Board unanimously approved the adoption and sent it to JCAR for approval. Yesterday
JCAR declined to approve the rules and suspended their application.

 We believe that adoption of such rules were within the Gaming Board’s rule-making authority.
Nevertheless, the refusal of JCAR to approve these rules results in a gap continuing to exist in
the video gaming industry
Our intention, in terms of moving forward, is to meet with members of the joint committee and
their staff to see if there are any technical concerns that can be addressed to obtain the rule
approval in this process. We were not made aware of what their objections were. Chairman Jaffe
has instructed staff to prepare legislation for introduction into the General Assembly that would
codify the contents of the rule in case we are not able to reach an agreement with the committee.
Member Vander Weele asked Administrator Ostrowski to explain the process of submitting rules
to the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR).
Administrator Ostrowski stated that a committee of legislators from both the House and the
Senate make up this panel and review rules that are submitted by Boards and Commissions.
Their goal is to make sure that these rules are written within certain confines and do not exceed
what is in Statute. There is a combination of representation; they meet monthly, vote on the
rules, and the agencies make submissions thru JCAR and work with staff whom works on behalf
of the legislators to assist in interacting with the different agency’s staff. There are 12 members.
Member Vander Weele went on to say that she is disappointed with the Panel’s decision and
these modifications were a clarification of what already is in the rules. There was no discussion
with the IGB as to any objections by JCAR to these rules. Member Vander Weele went on to
say she agrees with the statement read by Member Holewinski and noted that the Board
traditionally has viewed a valid use agreement as one between two licensed entities. Member
Vander Weele also stated that this is shear disappointment referencing the decision regarding the
modifications of the rules.
SUPPLIER, DISTRIBUTOR AND MANUFACTURER LICNESEE ITEMS –
•

AGS Illinois, LLLP – Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier License Renewals
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board renew the
Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier Licenses of AGS Illinois, LLLP for a
period of one year, expiring in January 2015. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Spielo International Canada ULC – Manufacturer License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board renew
the Manufacturer License of Spielo International Canada ULC, retroactive to
December 2013, for a term of one year, expiring in December 2014. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

2

 TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Terminal Operator Licensee Renewals
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve the
renewal of the following Terminal Operator Licensees for a period of one year,
expiring in January 2015: Andy’s Video Gaming Company; Cardinal Gaming,
LLC; Illinois Gaming Systems, LLC; Illinois Video Slot Management Corp.;
J&J Ventures Gaming, LLC; M&A Gaming, LLC; Metro East Video Gaming,
Inc.; Midwest SRO, LLC; Quad Gaming, Inc.; TAV Gaming, Inc. Member
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

•

Holl Gaming, LLC – New Terminal Operator License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Holl Gaming, LLC for a Terminal Operator License effective January
15, 2014 for a period of one year, expiring in January 2015. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. Member Gould abstained. Chairman Jaffe was in favor of the
motion. The motion passed.

•

JHey Enterprises, LLC – New Terminal Operator License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve JHey
Enterprises, LLC for a Terminal Operator License effective January 15, 2014
for a period of one year, expiring in January 2015. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSES –
•

Approvals & Denials
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve 60 applications for Terminal Handler Licenses and that the
Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to Michele Kay Carpenter. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call.

VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve 157
applications for Video Gaming Location Licenses, and that the Administrator
issue a Notice of Denial to the following applicants:
o Countyline Pub & Grill, Inc.
o Doc’s Diner, Inc.
o Philip Baalman
o Randy J. Wasilewski
o Springfield Pub, Inc.
o La Iguana Sport Bar, Inc.
o Wiley-Mumford Post #764 of the American Legion, Inc.

3

 o Majestic Theater Arts Business Wedding Chapel, LLC
o Guru Krupa Gas & Liquor, Inc.
o Shree Gi Krupa Corp.
o Donnie Cathey
o Luna Properties II, Inc.
o Villalva Corp.
o The Cellar Room Tavern, Inc.
o Len Brown’s North Shore Inn and Marina, LLC
o RAJ 2012, Inc.
o Ulrich’s Rebellion Room, Inc.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Consignments & More, Inc.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board rescind
its denial of Consignments & More, Inc. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING/REQUESTS TO REAPPLY –


Requests for Hearing
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board deny the
request for hearing from Colin Twesten, as he has failed to establish a prima
facie case, and deny the request from Consignments & More, Inc. as moot.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.



Requests to Reapply
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board grant
the requests to reapply from Mauremi, Inc., Bopp’s Grille & Saloon, Inc. and
the Croation Cultural Club and deny the request from Jim A. Johnson. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

At 11:12 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.

Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 