STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on November 14, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—320 West Washington Street, Suite 500, Spfld, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Don Hubert, Member of the Board, participated by telephone; Edward E.
Sadlowski, Member of the Board, participated by telephone; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD SEPTEMBER 12, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the September 12, 2006 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hubert seconded. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from September 1 through October 31, 2006. He distributed the report to the Board
for review, and the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights, noting
that during the two months, the agency issued one certification pursuant to a representation election, one
certification pursuant to a majority interest petition, and the agency's Administrative Law Judges (ALJs)
issued Recommended Decisions and Orders (RDOs) in two representation cases. The Executive Director
also noted that with regard to unfair labor practice cases, the agency issued sixteen administrative
dismissals, one partial dismissal, and had two charges withdrawn.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
L-RC-05-013
County of Cook, Oak Forest Hospital/American Federation of Professionals/Service
Employees International Union, Local 20

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the
Administrative Law Judge's Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to
review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
L-CB-06-010
Basharath Khan/American Federation of State, Cnty and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a
Dismissal on October 11, 2006, with an appeal filed. The General Counsel explained that the case
concerns the Union's duty of fair representation and its decision to decline to arbitrate Charging Party
Kahn's grievance. The General Counsel recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's
dismissal. Member Sadlowski moved to accept the General Counsel's recommendation. Member Hubert
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed the year-to-date fiscal report, the report on estimated year-end account
balances, and the "actual v. budgeted" year-to-date report, prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Chairman and Board members then briefly discussed the agency's fiscal reports. The Chairman
reported regarding legislative matters, but noted that there was nothing thus far, that had any direct impact
on the agency. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session,
concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hubert made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The
Board adjourned the meeting.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, this 12th day of December, 2006.

2

 