MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
November 21, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, November 21, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 10:53 A.M.
Present were Members Lee Gould, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Chairman
Aaron Jaffe.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of October 24, 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe read a statement and summarized the licensing rules.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated the video meeting for the December, 2013 will be held as
scheduled.
BOARD POLICY ITEM –
•

2014 Board Meeting Dates
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the following dates for
Regular Board Meetings for the 2014 calendar year:
January 14 and 15
February 25 and 26
March 26 and 27
April 29 and 30
May 28 and 29
June 25 and 26
July 23 and 24
August 20 and 21
September 23 and 24
October 22 and 23
November 19 and 20

 December 10 and 11
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Caleb Melamed presented the following to the Board and Staff:
Section 78 (a) (3) and (b) of the Video Gaming Act [230 ILCS 40] confer rulemaking
authority upon the Illinois Gaming Board regarding video gaming. At the November 21, 2013
open meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board, the Board’s legal staff will propose emergency
amendments to the Board’s rules on video gaming [11 Ill. Admin. Code 1800] revising the
language governing agreements for the placement of video gaming terminals, adding a new
Subpart P providing for the establishment of a Video Gaming Board Exclusion List, and making
corresponding changes to other portions of the video gaming rules. Following is a detailed
summary of the proposal.
Definitions (Section 110)
The definition of “use agreement” in Section 110 “Definitions” [11 Ill. Admin. Code
1800.110] is amended to clarify that such agreements must comply with all of the requirements
contained in Section 320 “Minimum Standards for Use Agreements” [11 Ill. Admin. Code
1800.320].
The “Video Gaming Board Exclusion List” is defined as the list established by new
Subpart P of the video gaming rules.
Minimum Standards for Use Agreements (Section 320)
Section 320 “Minimum Standards for Use Agreements [11 Ill. Admin. Code 1800.320] is
amended to provide the following:
•

Clarification that this Section applies to all agreements for the placement of video
gaming terminals.

•

Requirement that all use agreements, or other agreements for the placement of video
gaming terminals, shall be entered into only with a licensed terminal operator which
has been licensed by the Board at the time the agreement is signed.

Creation and Publication of Video Gaming Board Exclusion List (new Section 1610)
•

Proposed Amendments to Video Gaming Rules –
Member Gould moved that the Board authorize staff to amend Sections 110, 310, 320,
610, 615, 650, 690, and 715 of the Board’s rules on video gaming, and to add
Sections 1610, 1620, 1630, 1640 and 1650 to the Board’s rules on video gaming
regarding Use Agreements and a Video Gaming Board Exclusion List, by
submitting a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final

2

 review and approval by the Administrator. Member Holewinski seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER, DISTRIBUTOR AND MANUFACTURER LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Golden Route Operations LLC – Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier
Licenses
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board deny the
Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier Licenses of Golden Route Operations
LLC. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. Member Gould abstained. The
Chairman Jaffe was in favor. The motion passed.

TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS –

8.

•

Angelle & Green Gaming LLC – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board renew
the Terminal Operator license of Angelle & Green Gaming LLC effective
November 21, 2013 for a period of one year, expiring in November 2014. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

•

Barcade Gaming LLC – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board renew the
Terminal Operator license of Barcade Gaming LLC effective November 21, 2013
for a period of one year, expiring in November 2014. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Midwest Amusement & Gaming, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board renew the
Terminal Operator license of Midwest Amusement & Gaming, Inc. retroactive
to September 2013 for a period of one year, expiring in September 2014. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSES –
•

Approvals & Denials
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve 2 applications for Technician Licenses and 56 applications for Terminal
Handler Licenses; deny the applications of Colin Twesten, David Dean, Anthony
Dorelle, and Andrew Von Vogt; and deny the renewal of the Terminal Handler
license of Dale A. Johnson. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 9.

10.

VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Approvals & Denials
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve 344
applications for Video Gaming Location Licenses; deny the applications of
Miller Time Recreation, Inc.; McGillacuddy’s Enterprises, Inc.; Consignments
and More, Inc.; Bukanas Sport Bar Corp.; T&G Inc. and Sam’s Ristorante &
Pizzeria, LLC; and deny the renewal of the license of Sam’s Pizza Harlem, LLC.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Bloomington Columbian Home Association
Pursuant to Public Act 98-0587, Member Holewinski moved that the Board rescind
the denial of the Bloomington Columbian Home Association d/b/a Bloomington
Knights of Columbus #574 and return its application to pending status. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

•

Jasbir 1 Enterprise Inc.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board rescind
its October 2013 denial of Jasbir 1 Enterprise Inc.; return its application to
pending status; and deny its Request for Hearing, as that request is now moot.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING/REQUESTS TO REAPPLY –


Requests for Hearing
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board deny the
request for hearing from Joseph McCarthy, as he has failed to establish a prima
facie case for hearing. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Requests to Reapply
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board deny the
requests to reapply from Nicodino’s Pizza Co. & Café and Ki’s Restaurant, Inc.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

At 11:20 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.

Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 