MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
APRIL 19, 1994
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on April 19, 1994.
The meeting was held in Room 500 C of the State of Illinois Building, 160 North
LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois. The meeting was held pursuant to previous
Board action and notice was duly and timely given to each Board Member and the
general public in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members Gayl S. Pyatt, J. William Roberts and Robert F. Vickrey. Member
William B. Browder was absent due to a previous commitment.
Additionally, Interim Administrator Joseph F. Mc Quaid, Chief Legal Donna
B. More, the media and the general public were in attendance.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 A.M.
Member Roberts moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2,
(g), (h) and (k) that the Board retire to Closed Session to consider the
following subject matter:
1.
Staff reports regarding Supplier Licensees
2.
Staff reports regarding Occupational Licenses
3.
Matters concerning Owners Licenses that were
confidential pursuant to the Open Meetings Act
4.
Recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge
5.
Investigatory matters
6.
Personnel matters, and
7.
Procedures of the Board.
Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 9:32 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:34 P.M.
Chairman Johnson and Members Pyatt, Roberts and Vickrey were in attendance.
The first order of business concerned approval of the minutes of March 15,
1994.
Ms. Pyatt moved the minutes of March 15, 1994 be approved, as submitted.
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. Mr. Vickrey offered one clarification. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
recognized the Interim Administrator.

The Chairman

Mr. McQuaid reported that cruise disruptions affected 39.9% of scheduled
excursions during March, 1994. The report concerning underage patrons was also
distributed.

 Mr. McQuaid next introduced Dr. Fred Gertz of the University of Illinois.
Dr. Gertz proposed an evaluation be undertaken to assess the economic
development of communities with riverboat gambling. He stated that an
evaluation of Alton, Illinois could be completed by July, 1994.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Administrator be authorized to enter into a
contract with the University of Illinois for an evaluation of economic impact of
riverboat gaming. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.
Under discussion, Mr. Vickrey requested the study include an examination
of local government's use of gaming tax receipts. There being no further
discussion, the Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. McQuaid next introduced Audit Consultant, Nicholas Wilke, to discuss a
proposal to modify the Board's audit function.
Mr. Wilke requested the Board's approval for the following audit plan
recommendations:
1.
Segregate auditing functions between financial
statement and compliance audits;
2.
Retain control of selecting Certified Public
Accountants for financial statement auditing but
solicit
recommendations from owner/licensees on
their preference of
outside Certified Public
Accountants and allow a financial year
end other
than December 31;
3.
Allow Certified Public Accountants performing
financial statement audits to perform other
traditional
services for owner/licensees limited
only by the AICAP and SEC
pronouncements;
4.
Issue requests for proposals from Certified Public
Accounting firms to perform compliance auditing
and
special audit functions as required under the
Rules or as deemed
necessary by the Administrator;
and,
5.
The audit staff of the Board will be responsible
for monitoring daily gaming tax revenues,
reconciliation of auditor reports, review of
outside
Certified Public Accountants workpapers,
review reports from
internal auditors, monitoring
Internal Control System as well as
certain
compliance audit functions.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board approve the staff recommendations.
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

Ms.

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned updates from applicants found
suitable for licensing. The Chairman recognized Elgin Riverboat Resorts.
Mr. Dan Azrak appeared on behalf of the applicant. He told the Board that
a dredging permit for the Fox River had been obtained and that relocation of a

 Commonwealth Edison power line over the river had been completed. Mr. Azrak
also stated that some 400 construction workers were employed on two shifts. He
stated that operations were expected to commence October 15, 1994.
The next order of business concerned issues of owner/licensees.
Chairman first recognized Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture.

The

Mr. Joe Duelman appeared on behalf of the licensee. He told the Board
that the joint venture had re-secured the docksite land from the estate of the
late Leonard Ring. Mr. Duelman next asked Board approval for a proposed
consolidation of interests that would be henceforth known as H.P., Inc. Mr.
Duelman noted that no changes in owner/investors would occur under the
consolidation plan.
Mr. Vickrey moved that Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation's 50% ownership
interest in the Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture be transferred to H.P., Inc.
thereby causing the restructuring of the owner licensee from a joint venture
into an Illinois corporation by the name of H.P., Inc. Ms. Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.
Mr. Kevin Larson appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval for the placement of Off-Track betting devices at the Empress docksite
in areas not accessible by minors. He noted that a floor plan had been
submitted to staff indicating the location of the devices. Under discussion,
Mr. Larson stated that the location of the devices would prohibit persons aged
17 - 20 from wagering on horse races. (It was noted that the Horse Racing Act
allows persons 17 years of age or older to wager.) It was also noted that an
Off-Track Betting parlor leased to Inter-Track would allow such wagering.
Mr. Vickrey moved that based on the representations of Empress River
Casino Corporation that the additional Off-Track betting equipment be approved
at the prescribed locations. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.
Mr. Thomas Moore appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval for the purchase of investor shares held by Mr. Jacob Barnes and Dr.
Dale Geiss. He noted that the purchase would be in the form of treasury stock.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Par-a-Dice Gaming Corporation be allowed to
repurchase Mr. Jacob Barnes' 770,000 shares of the corporation due to the death
of Mr. Barnes and Dr. Dale Geiss' 270,00 shares of the corporation. Mr. Roberts
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. John Janicik next appeared on behalf of Par-a-dice to discuss the sale
of the vessel, Par-a-dice to Argosy Gaming Company. Mr. Janicik described a
proposal under which existing gaming equipment would be sold to IGT North
America, a licensed supplier, who would then sell the equipment to Argosy who in

 the meantime would purchase the vessel.
the May, 1994 Regular Meeting.

Approval of the matter was deferred to

The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino - Aurora.
Mr. John Janicik appeared on behalf of the licensee. He described a
proposed refinancing proposal under which Hollywood would issue $225 million in
notes at 10.5% interest. Proceeds from the notes would be used to refinance all
outstanding debt, to provide additional equity to Hollywood Casino - Aurora and
to fund additional gaming venues. The proposal was deferred to the May, 1994
Regular Meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Argosy Gaming Company.
Mr. Jeff Roberts appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval for Alton Gaming Company to operate a second vessel in Alton, Illinois.
Noting that Internal Controls and other specifics had yet to be submitted for
staff approval, the matter was deferred to the May, 1994 Regular Meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Harrah's Casino Cruises - Joliet.
Mr. George Kovac appeared on behalf of the licensee. He advised the Board
that investor John Q. Hammonds would request approval to change a lending entity
to a Joliet, Illinois bank. The matter was deferred to the May, 1994 Regular
Meeting.
The next order of business concerned Suppliers Licenses.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Suppliers License for Nevada Coin Mart be
renewed. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licenses.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board accept the staff report and
recommendations and approve the applications received for Occupational Licenses,
Levels 2 & 3. It was noted the motion included 254 Level 2 and 390 Level 3
applications. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board accept the staff report and
recommendations and deny the applications received for Occupational Licenses,
Levels 2 & 3. It was noted the motion included 6 Level 2 and 20 Level 3
applications. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next item of business concerned Administrative Appeals.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the

 recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge(s) and deny applications for
Occupational Licenses for the following individuals:
Victor Genge
Nichelle Johnson
Jason Kirk
Mark Parkdy.
Mr. Roberts seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
which includes a valid court order of expungement, grant Robert Hiller an
Occupational License, Level 3. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board allow Terry Davis leave to reapply for an
Occupational License within one year from the date of his October 19, 1993,
denial. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board allow Donald Curler to withdraw his request
for hearing thereby rendering the Board's denial a final order. Mr. Roberts
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board allow Ronald San Souci and Michael Dondero
leave to withdraw their hearing requests and leave to reapply for an
occupational license within one year from April 19, 1994. Mr. Roberts seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board deny the following individuals' request for
hearing as their requests did not comply with Rule 3000.405:
Carrie Johnson
Keith Martin
James Love
Clara Gill Martin
Darren Richardson.
Mr. Roberts seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned pending investigations.
stated the Board had reviewed staff reports during Closed Session.

The Chairman

 Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 94-DC-5,
involving Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. be issued. Mr. Roberts seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 94 DC-6,
involving Ronald Burbach be issued. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 94-DC-7,
involving Latanya Phillips be issued. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 94-DC-8,
involving Tim Moran and Glenn Moorer be issued. Mr. Roberts seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was Old Business.
search for an Administrator continued.

The Chairman stated that the

The next order of business was New Business.
The business portion of the May 17, 1994 will begin at 1:30 P.M.
It was suggested that the Regular Meeting date be moved to the fourth
Tuesday of each month. It was noted that the Regular Meetings for June and
August might be canceled; a final decision was to be forthcoming. The July
Regular Meeting will be held on July 26, 1994.
Argosy Gaming Company sought recognition to seek approval to move Alton
Belle I from Missouri to Illinois. The request was deferred to the May, 1994
Regular Meeting.
The being no further business, Mr. Roberts moved the Board stand
adjourned. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 2:05
P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 