STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 10, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Michael Coli, Member of the Board;
Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the
Board (participated by telephone-conference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members.
John F. Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 13, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the May 13, 2008 meeting. Member Coli moved
to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice
vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-CA-04-007 and S-CA-04-115
American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Village of Bellwood

Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) Kazanjian's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review
the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case Nos. S-CA-06-191 and S-CA-06-275
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Town of Cicero
Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case Nos. S-CA-05-215, S-CA-06-277, and S-CA-07-025
Cicero Fire Fighters Union, Int'l Ass'n of Fire Fighters, Local 717/Town of Cicero
Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-RC-07-085
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Itasca
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its procedural background. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ
Strizak's recommendation with the exception of her determination that the petitioned-for sergeants lack the

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)
4.
Case No. S-RC-07-085 (Continued)

authority within the meaning of the Act, to reward or adjust the grievances of their subordinates, or to
effectively recommend such action, with the requisite independent judgment. As neither party filed
exceptions to that determination, the acting general counsel recommended that the Board decline to take up
on its own motion, the matters no longer in dispute. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the
acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-07-048
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois/Service Employees International Union, Local 73 & Illinois State Employees
Association, Laborers Int'l Union, Local 2002
Case No. S-RC-08-074
Service Employees International Union, Local 73 & Illinois State Employees Association,
Laborers Int'l Union, Local 2002/State of Illinois/American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Morris' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-06-034
East Peoria Fire Fighters Union, Local 1498, Int'l Ass'n of Fire Fighters/City of East Peoria
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
April 24, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells briefly detailed her review of the matter
and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Hade
moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that Fiscal Officer Hildebrand had emailed the most recent fiscal report to the
Board during the week of May 18, and reported that the legislature had passed a budget, but it was not yet
final. After a short discussion, the Board questioned whether there was a need for executive session,
concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of July, 2008.

2

 