MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 6, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, March 6, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed
session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler and James Sullivan.
At 9:30 A.M. Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling
Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:44 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Approval of Minutes
Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the closed and open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of February 14, 2006. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call.
Chairman’s Report/Comments
The Chairman stated that the legislature is in session. The Chairman stated that there have been
a number of bills pending, and the Board has not taken a position on any of the bills except for
our Independence bill. The Chairman also stated that he hopes the bill passes both houses and
will be signed by the Governor.
Member Winkler stated that he was hoping that Mr. Crider would be present from Harrah’s
Metropolis, as he would like to commend Metropolis for the response to the conversation that the
Board had with him at the last meeting. Metropolis provided information in steps to diversify

 their employee force, particularly in top management. Member Winkler stated that he wanted to
credit Harrah’s for the work that they have done.
Member Moore stated that he would like to echo the same sentiment that Member Winkler
stated. Member Moore stated that some tweaking needs to be done in certain areas in terms of
the dollars and the 501(c)(3) entities that need to be identified. Member Moore stated that
overall Metropolis gave the Board members a much clearer picture.
Member Gardner stated that in the closed session the Board reviewed the update for Par-A-Dice
Casino and given the information provided, he was disappointed in Par-A-Dice’s efforts in the
year 2005 as compared to the 2004 to support community activities.
Joe Moore stated that he would like to take this opportunity to comment on the three tours that he
took to the casinos; Harrah’s Joliet, Empress and the Grand Victoria in Elgin. Member Moore
stated that the tours went very well, an abundance of cooperation and thanks to all.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Ostrowski stated that he would like to thank Member Moore and Member Gardner
for participating with staff in the General Manager’s meeting. He also went on to thank all the
general managers, Tom Swoik and representatives who attended the meeting. Administrator
Ostrowski felt that some constructive dialogue was given, and IGB staff looks forward to
receiving the submissions that the industry will supply in the coming weeks.
Administrator Ostrowski stated that one of the staff attorneys for the Gaming Board, Carla Davis
has left the Gaming Board in pursuit of other avenues, and he and staff wish her well.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
a.

Item for Initial Consideration – no motion
●

Casino Rock Island – Development Agreement

Donna Moore on behalf of Casino Rock Island stated that they have submitted the development
agreement for review and based on discussions from the last meeting they understand that the
Board would like to review the Agreement and would be back at the Board meeting next month
for final action.
b.

Item for Final Action
●

Penn National – Request for Extension

The Chairman stated that the Senator William Haine is present to express some concerns.
Senator Haine was present on behalf of the City of Alton. He went on to state that he was born
and raised in the City of Alton on the Mississippi River. Alton at one time was an industrial

2

 town with glass manufacturers, steel mills and a box board plant. Many that were in the area are
all gone, except for one refinery, and the remnant of a steel mill. Senator Haine went on to state
that the Argosy Casino which was placed in Alton in 1991 has been a tremendous asset. It
created 700 jobs, it produces $110M in gross revenues every year; much of which goes to the
common school fund, but without it the City of Alton would be in dire straits. The City has built
two fire houses, a huge court center, repaired streets, parks and supported great works of charity
because of the revenue from this gaming boat. The gaming boat has also put hundreds of
thousands of dollars back into the community; a part from the tax proceeds. When Penn
National purchased the Argosy Alton, the Mayor and the City Council were overjoyed because
Penn National was a tier one company with national reputation and they have already put $3.5M
in the operation with the promise of even more. Senator Haine indicated that the Mayor of Alton
was quite concerned about the rule which might cause Penn to divest themselves of the riverboat
in an atmosphere where they may not obtain a buyer that is a tier one buyer. Senator Haine
stated that he was here to appeal to the Board on that rule to modify it so that Penn National can
keep the ownership and continue to keep its pledge. He stated that the Alton Belle has a nice
niche in the St. Louis area and there is heavy competition. Missouri has five gaming operations
and they have the Casino Queen down the river in East St. Louis. However, the Casino Queen is
not our competition; the competition is immediately across the river at Harrah’s which is in north
St. Louis County and St. Charles County. Without a tier one owner such as Penn National,
Alton would just be back in the soup again. Senator Haine stated that he is not here as a
representative of Penn but for the City of Alton. Senator Haine went on to mention that Senator
Wilhelmi from Joliet, Will County has similar concerns about what will happen with their
operation if Penn has to sell it .
The Chairman asked if the Senator would be satisfied if the Board could enter into an agreement
with Penn saying that the Alton Belle would stay within the ownership of Penn National.
Senator Haine stated that he would be ecstatic. The Chairman stated that the Senator may go out
of this meeting ecstatic.
Kevin DeSanctis, President of Penn National and Cid Froelich addressed the Board. The
Chairman stated that it was the first time he saw them smile in a long time. Kevin DeSanctis,
stated that they are here before the Board requesting an extension of time to divest the Empress
Casino and the Alton Belle Casino. Kevin DeSanctis went on to thank the Board and staff with
their patience to resolve the understanding of the issues at hand. Kevin DeSanctis stated that it
was his understanding that the Board has come to a resolution and that Penn is in agreement with
the issue.
The Chairman stated that as he understands the agreement, Penn will get an extension in regard
to the Empress. Penn shall enter into a definitive sales agreement to divest itself of the Empress
Casino by June 30, 2008. (Member Gardner suggested that divestiture is more accurate than a
requirement to sell) Secondly the Chairman stated that Penn will not sell the Alton Belle Casino
as required by the Penn Argosy merger approval agreement. Penn shall continue to operate its
Illinois casinos independently to prevent undue economic concentration. The Chairman stated
that the Illinois Gaming Board may require Penn to accelerate the sale of the Empress Casino
within one year if the Board determines that Penn’s ownership of three Illinois casinos or two
casinos in the Chicago area, is causing undue economic concentration. The terms of the Penn-

3

 Argosy Merger Approval Agreement remain in full force and effect, except as modified by this
resolution. The Chairman asked if that was correct. The Chairman stated that the Board will
then delegate to Administrator Mark Ostrowski to execute an Amended Penn-Argosy Merger
Agreement reflecting the terms set forth in this Resolution.
Member Gardner stated that he felt he had a productive conversation with Penn representatives
and that they made persuasive arguments for granting this extension, and they had evidence of
their willingness to operate the boats to date in an independent fashion. Member Gardner
believes that the Board should be thoughtful of Penn shareholders and of their situation and
provide this extension. Member Gardner went on to say that he is pleased that they are going to
keep the Alton Belle.
Member Moore stated that during this period of time; between now and 2008 Penn should have
an effective social investment strategy. Kevin DeSanctis stated that they have no problem with
the Board’s Social Investment Strategy and Penn agrees to all the terms of the Resolution.
Member Gardner moved to adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
I offer the following resolution:
WHEREAS, on November 3, 2004 Penn National Gaming, Inc. (Penn) and Argosy Gaming
Company (Argosy) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger;
WHEREAS, on September 29, 2005 the Illinois Gaming Board approved the merger of
Penn and Argosy as well as Penn’s request to sell the Empress Casino and the Alton Belle
Casino pursuant to the Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement, Penn
was required to enter into a Definitive Sales Agreement to sell both the Empress Casino
and the Alton Belle Casino by December 31, 2006;
WHEREAS, Penn no longer desires to sell the Alton Belle Casino;
WHEREAS, Penn has requested an extension of time to sell the Empress Casino;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
1.

Penn shall enter into a definitive agreement to divest of the Empress Casino
by June 30, 2008;

2.

Penn will not sell the Alton Belle Casino as required by the Penn-Argosy
Merger Approval Agreement;

3.

Penn shall continue to operate its Illinois casinos independently to prevent
undue economic concentration;

4

 4.

The Illinois Gaming Board may require Penn to accelerate the sale of the
Empress Casino within one year if the Board determines that Penn’s
ownership of three Illinois Casinos, or two casinos in the Chicago area, is
causing undue economic concentration;

5.

The terms of the Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement remain in full
force and effect, except as modified by this resolution; and

6.

The Board delegates authority to the Administrator to execute an Amended
Penn-Argosy Merger Agreement reflecting the terms set forth in this
Resolution.

I move to adopt the foregoing resolution.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board never asked anybody to sell the Alton Belle. People have
come to us and stated why did we push Penn to sell the Alton Belle, but the Board never did.
The Chairman stated that he just wanted to make the record clear.
SUPPLIER LICENSEES ITEM
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Board and staff would appreciate that in the future that
certain updates are given to our staff in a timely manner.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Gaming Board is catching up, and for a long time the Board did
not have a quorum on this Board. The Board is catching up and for more smooth operations, the
supplier also must operate smoothly.
●

Atronic Americas, LLC – License Renewal
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member
Sullivan moved that the Board approve the Supplier’s license of Atronic America,
LLC for a term of 4 years expiring 2010 and impose the following condition:
That all future required submissions, including supplier license renewals and
annual updates be submitted to the Illinois Gaming Board in a complete and timely
manner. In addition, ensure all personal net worth statements and corresponding
net worth statements and corresponding financial schedules A-J, for all Key
Persons, be dated within six months of the submission date.
Further, I move that the Board certify and approve the following individuals and
position as Key Persons of the licensee:

5

 1. Paul Gauselmann;
2. Michael Gauselmann; and
3. Chief Executive Officer.
Further, I move that the Board approve Atronic America, LLC to manufacture, sell
or lease electronic gaming devices to licensed riverboat casinos in Illinois, pursuant
to the requirements set out in the Board’s Adopted Rules.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – Level 2’s & 3’s
Administrator Ostrowski stated the based on the staff’s investigation he recommends that the
Board approve 29 applications for an occupational license at level 2 and 109 applications for an
occupational license at level 3 and 1 denial.
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 29 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 109 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to Andreous Stacey, an applicant for an
occupational license, who previously received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and did not respond or provide additional information to rebut that
recommendation. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there was one disciplinary complaint against Shrpesime
Sadiku. She is an occupational level 3 licensee who is the Marketing Coordinator at Harrah’s
Joliet Casino from April 19, 2004 to May 16, 2005 at that time she left employment for another
casino. She previously was employed as the Marketing Coordinator at Harrah’s Joliet from
August 19, 1999 through September 25, 2003. She transferred to Harrah’s East Indiana and was
previously licensed in Illinois on July 24, 2001 and her license expired after she left her
employment. On September 25, 2005 she executed a hand written statement admitting giving an
undetermined number of promotional vouchers to friends and families so that they could cash
them at Harrah’s Joliet and to receiving some of the cash back for an extended period of time.
Harrah’s Joliet Casino management determined that the amount that was missing in promotional
vouchers was $58,500.00 that occurred during the period of June 23, 2004 through July 20, 2005.
Ms. Sadiku was indicted by the Will County Grand Jury and is currently charged with multiple
counts of felony theft. Based on the activity that this occupational licensee engaged in and based
on the activity that she engaged in through her employment at Harrah’s Casino Joliet it is activity

6

 tends to discredit the Illinois Gaming industry, and as a result, we recommend that her license be
revoked.
• Shrpesime Sadiku
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Shrpesime Sadiku, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee,
for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted
Rules in relation to her admission of participating in the theft of $58,500 in promotional
vouchers from Harrah’s Joliet over an extended period of time.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Ms. Sadiku’s Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association addressed the Board. First
Mr. Swoik stated that the Grand Victoria Casino in Elgin is holding a 2006 Diversity Networking
Event on March 15th. It is an opportunity for various minority businesses and female owned
businesses to come and participate in a conference and network with the industry. All the Illinois
Casinos will be involved in this event as well as two of the northwestern Indiana boats.
Member Moore asked how the public is being made aware of this. Mr. Swoik stated that the
casino is dealing with the Chicagoland Minority Business Counsel and they have published it in
the newspapers. Mr. Swoik also stated that sometime in May (May 2, 2006) there will be one
down in East St. Louis. Member Moore asked if any of the boats will be participating in the
Business Opportunity Fair at Nay Pier in April.
Illinois’ gaming industry takes problem gaming very seriously and continues to do something
about it. Last month we celebrated our tenth anniversary of working with Bensinger Dupont and
Associates and funding the 1-800-Gambler hot line.
Last April in our ongoing efforts to promote responsible gaming and utilize our resources in the
most effective manner, we announced an additional grant to BDA to support two new initiatives.
The first of these is the Chance to Change Program (C2C), which is an enhanced case
management/relapse prevention support service program. This program received last years
“innovation in the field” award from the Illinois Council on Problem and Compulsive Gambling.
The second new program is the Problem Gambling Education and Training program (PGET)
which focuses on providing education and training for three groups, high school students,
clinicians-in-training and students in hospitality management programs and senior citizen
centers. We chose BDA not only because of their proven national track record but also because
we could consolidate our efforts with one of the most respected authorities in the arena of
responsible gaming.

7

 “The vast majority of the millions of people who gamble do so responsibly and for fun.
However, even though the percentage of those adversely affected is small, the Illinois gaming
industry takes problem gaming very seriously and our continued efforts demonstrate our
ongoing commitment to promoting responsible gaming and offering support mechanisms for
people in need of help.”
At this time it gives me great pleasure to introduce, Mr. Peter B. Bensinger, President of
Bensinger Dupont and Associates who will update you on these programs.
Mr. Bensinger.
•
•
•
•
•
•

Bensinger, DuPont & Associates (BDA)
Problem Gambling Help Line Provider for 10 States
3 major programs to discuss today
Help line services
Chance to Change
Problem Gambling and Education P-GET

•
•

Help line services
Funded by ICGA & partial funding by IL Dept Health and Human Services and since 1005 IL Dept of Lottery
Access through 2 national help lines 800 GAMBLER and 800-522-4700
24/7 Masters level counselors responsible for crisis stabilization, problem assessment &
referral to treatment and self help groups like GA
Answered 6646 calls in 2005 with 2646 calls directly related to those seeking help on a
problem gambling issue
Please refer to statistical report on 2005 help line activities

•
•
•
•
•
•

ICGA funded a major new initiative in Illinois called Chance to Change (C2C)
Recognized that there is need for some helpline callers in 2 areas
1. Not enough professional treatment in all areas of the State (GA is expanding still
not as many meetings as other self help groups like AA)
• 52 of 102 counties in IL do not have GA or state funded or identified
therapists specializing in treating compulsive gamblers
• Very common issue in the majority of states
2. Problem gamblers may benefit from additional support from professional clinical
contact as an aid to their recovery from this addiction

BDA developed enhanced case management/relapse prevention program to address these 2
issues
• Problem gamblers accessing help line services are screened to determine if they meet
criteria for C2C. 2 major criteria for selection:

8

 1. live in counties without tx or GA
2. screened according the an assessment based on the “5 stages of change” Pre-contemplation, Contemplation, Determination, Action, &
Maintenance—Work with those in actively working toward stopping
gambling in Contemplation and Determination stages
Clients agree to participate in an initial comprehensive screen and 5 follow-up sessions.
Sessions are telephone based & last 45 minutes. Sessions occur over a 12 week period at Week
1 after initial call, Week 2, Week 4, Week 8 and Week 12. Overall goal is to promote abstinence
and support client in participating in treatment and GA. Also mail educational materials before
each session including workbooks, journal articles, bibliographies and books. C2C counselors
available to support family members and client’s therapists with any specific issues relating to
recovery from gambling addiction. During 2005, BDA completed 243 sessions. BDA
evaluating data; appears that abstinence is enhanced Week 1- 65%, Week 2- 76% Week 4- 76%
Week 8 –67% and Week 12 100% (compared to 50% of gamblers participating in our outcome
study.
•

Received award from the Illinois Council on Problem Gambling for “Innovation in the
Field”.

2nd program funded by the ICGA Problem Gambling Education & Training (P-GET)
•

•

Focusing on providing problem gambling education and training to:
1. High school students
2. Clinicians in training and college students
3. Senior citizens

Major goal is to enhance public awareness about problem gambling

2005 Activities
•
•

developed a website www.ilproblemgambling.com
Illinois residents could obtain information on problem gambling and make on-line training
requests. Information on-line includes:
• Information for problem gamblers and family members
• FAQ, signs and symptoms of problem gambling
• Myths and realities, problem gambling referral resources
• Help line and C2C information
• Links to other sites
• Training outlines

•
•
•

During 2005 developed training modules
1200 P-GET mailings to Illinois educational institutions and senior centers
Conducted sessions at high schools, and universities

9

 Conclusion
•
•
•

Expanded role of case management services through C2C. Provides Illinois residents
with one of the most unique programs in the nation.
Built on 10 years of experience providing help line services in Illinois
A continued focus on public education training and outreach will ensure that awareness
of problem gambling is important to the ICGA and all Illinois residents.

Member Winkler stated that he is not pleased with the statistics of the Gambling Services Report.
Member Winkler also stated that there should be a better way to approach the gambling problem
so that the gambler sticks with the program.
Mr. Bensinger stated that he is aware of the statistics, and he interprets them differently than
Member Winkler. He also stated that the fact that there are people in treatment is a success. Mr.
Bensinger stated that more resources need to be made available to the gambler to get a higher
degree of counseling. He also stated that most treatments that are available are to those who have
insurance coverage. He also stated that the program that is presently under way is definitely
behind others.
Member Gardner also stated that he is displeased with the percentages of gamblers that are in the
program. Mr. Bensinger stated that studies were done over several different time spans, and there
are ways to get the gambler to stop, the gambler needs to go to Gambler’s Anonymous meetings;
that’s their goal, to get them to the meetings. A way to do that would be to get them in all
counties, not just a select few. He also stated that the Board will be kept informed of any
additional information. Member Gardner went on to state the statistics are not encouraging.
Member Winkler went on to state that these people are ruining their lives and the lives of their
loved ones. They need more help. BDA responded that the gambler is being assisted in the best
way possible with what is at their disposal. Tom Swoik also stated that this was a new program.
This program is trying to help these people out.
At 2:45 p.m. Member Winkler moved to reconvene to closed session . Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

10

 