MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MARCH 19, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, March 19, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Wednesday, March 19, 2008 at 9:45 a.m. the following Board Members were present:
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph
Moore.
At 9:45 a.m. on Tuesday, February 19, 2008 Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:45 p.m. The Board went
into open session at 1:05 p.m.
Roll call was taken at the start of the open session with Chairman Jaffe, Members Gardner,
Winkler, Sullivan and Moore present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of February 13, 2008, its Regular Meeting of February 19, 2008 and the open
session minutes of its Special Meeting of February 13, 2008 and Regular Meeting of
February 19, 2008. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENT –
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENT –

 ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT Administrator Ostrowski stated there is a Special Meeting to be held on March 25, 2008 and a
docksite meeting is scheduled for April 3rd and 4th at the Casino Queen.
Administrator Ostrowski also stated that he is working with Tom Swoik to schedule a General
Managers meeting possibly on the 23rd of April, 2008 in Chicago. The Administrator also
mentioned that Tom Thanas is leaving his Harrah’s employment, and was very professional in
working with staff.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –

• Par-A-Dice – License Renewal
Martha Sabol addressed the Board on behalf of Par-A-Dice Casino (PAD). Ms. Sabol introduced
Chris Corrado, General Manager, Chris Gibase, Boyd Sr. Vice President of Operations, Gerald
Koe, Boyd Director of Supplier Diversity and Dave Daley Boyd Vice President of Legal Affairs
and Assistant General Counsel.
Chris Corrado addressed the Board and staff and thanked staff for all their assistance. Member
Winkler stated that PAD’s response to the Board members’ questions was timely. However,
Member Winkler stated that the amount of charitable giving has to be increased.
Member Moore stated his concerns for the diversity of the suppliers. Member Moore stated that
he hopes that the numbers would improve. Member Moore also stated that he is saddened by the
lack of diversity at the management level. He considers this a very serious issue.
Member Gardner asked if the $5M renovation of the hotel was completed and was the work
force diverse. Mr. Corrado stated that the work force was diverse.
Member Winkler commended Mr. Corrado for the excellent job that he has done in the past 9
months.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board renew the Owner's License of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation for a term of 4
years, expiring in March 2012.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Sullivan moved to designate the following
positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1. Boyd Gaming Corporation;
2. President/Secretary;
3. Vice President/Treasurer;

2

 4. Director;
5. Vice President of Operations;
6. Vice President of Internal Audit;
7. Director of Internal Audit;
8. Midwest and South Region-Director of Surveillance;
9. William S. Boyd;
10. Marianne Johnson;
11. Keith E. Smith, and
12. David B. Daley.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Member Moore asked the Sr. Vice President of Midwest Operations for Boyd Gaming what is
being done about the diversity issue at Par-A-Dice. Member Moore stated his disappointment
with the supplier diversity at PAD. Chris Corrado stated that staffing growth is significant in the
diversity area. Please be patient, the numbers are showing progress.
SUPPLIERS LICENSEE ITEM ●

Happ Controls, Inc. – License Renewal

Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
renew the Supplier’s License of Happ Controls Inc. for a period of 2 years, expiring in
March 2010 and impose the following condition:
That all future required submissions, including supplier’s license renewal and annual
updates be submitted to the Illinois Gaming Board in a complete and timely manner.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Gardner moved to designate the following
positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Pfingsten Partners, LLC;
Happ Controls, LLC;
Happ Acquisition, Inc.;
Chief Executive Officer of Happ Controls, LLC;
President of Happ Controls, LLC;
President of Happ Acquisition, Inc.;
President of Happ Controls, Inc.;
Charles E. Turnbull;
Thomas S. Bagley;
James J. Norton; and
John H. Underwood.

The Chairman stated that the Board and staff need the information from the above supplier in a
timely manner.

3

 Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 22 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 68 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Danielle Brown;
Jennifer Turner;
Veronica Vanosdel, and
Adam Lalonde.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS -

•

Donmonick Meredith – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Donmonick Meredith, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose his January 1, 2008 arrest.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Donmonick Meredith’s
occupational license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Michael Bunse, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Michael Bunse, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose his January 24, 2008 arrest.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Michael Bunse’s
occupational license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one

4

 (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Eric M. Schwegel, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Eric M. Schwegel, an occupational
licensee, based on his act of impersonating an Alton Belle security guard.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke Eric M. Schwegel’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

Member Gardner stated that the failure to report arrests by the applicants and existing
employees will no longer be tolerated. We are imposing stricter penalties and eventually if there
is no improvement, revocation will be necessary.

•

Marissa Lozada, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Marissa Lozada, an occupational
licensee, based on her admitted involvement with co-workers in a scheme to steal
cash tendered by patrons for food purchases.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Marissa Lozada’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

•

Erick Salas, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Erick Salas, an occupational licensee,
based on his admitted involvement with co-workers in a scheme to steal cash
tendered by patrons for food purchases.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Erick Salas’ occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

5

 •

Charles Lane, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Charles Lane, an occupational
licensee, based on his admitted involvement with co-workers in a scheme to steal
cash tendered by patrons for food purchases.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Charles Lane’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT -

•

Request for Hearing – Joseph Wojciechowski
Member Gardner moved that Joseph Wojciechowski’s request for a hearing be
denied. Mr. Wojciechowski has offered no facts that establish a prima facie case,
i.e., that he was not convicted of possessing an altered drivers license in 2002, which
is a crime of dishonesty that renders Mr. Wojciechowski statutorily ineligible for
licensure pursuant to section 9(a)(2) of the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call
vote.

ADJOURNMENT At 1:50 p.m. Member Gardner motioned for adjournment while Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 