Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
March 7, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Video – on March 7,
2018 in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Members Hector Alejandre, Dee
Robinson and Michael Hansen. Chairman Don Tracy attended via telephone from the Illinois
Gaming Board’s Springfield office due to employment reasons. Four of the five members of the
Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General
Counsel Agostino Lorenzini, Deputy General Counsel James Pellum, Deputy General Counsel
Sheera Hobfoll, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit
and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Finance Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator
Robert Burke, Office Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project
Manager Mark Stevens, Deputy Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, and Gaming
Operations Supervisor Jeff Gaida. Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim
Lopinski, Finance Manager Tammy Compton, Chief Financial Officer Kevin High, and
Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed attended via telephone from the Illinois Gaming Board’s
Springfield office.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 9:56 AM. Member Alejandre moved that the
Board retire to closed session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), (15) and (21)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
2. Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
3. Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
4. Investigatory Matters
5. Closed Session Minutes
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 11:32 AM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the video closed session meeting and return
to open session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 11:32 AM, Member Robinson moved to recess open session to that afternoon, Wednesday,
March 7, 2018. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.

 At 2:16 PM, the Board reconvened its open session and Member Hansen immediately moved to
retire to closed session to discuss a proposed amendment to a settlement proposal. Member
Robison seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
At 2:24 PM, Member Hansen moved to adjourn the closed session meeting and return to open
session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
At 2:51 that afternoon, Wednesday March 7, 2018 the Board reconvened the Regular Meeting –
Video – on the 5th floor of the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois immediately
following its Regular Meeting - Riverboat. Present were the following Members: Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Michael Hansen. Chairman Tracy attended via telephone from the
Illinois Gaming Board Springfield office due to employment reasons. Four of the five members
of the Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Hansen moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of February 9, 2018. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Jeffrey Rehberger – Rescinded his request to speak
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Deputy General Counsel Sheera Hobfoll
Member Hansen moved to amend Video Gaming Rule 570 (Renewal of License) to create a new
subpart E of the Board Rule by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with
the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
TERMINAL OPERATORS
Initial License
•

Eureka Entertainment, LLC

Member Hansen moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Eureka
Entertainment, LLC for a term of one year, expiring in March, 2019, as the applicant has
demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

2

 License Renewals
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a
term of one year, expiring in March 2019:












Abraham Gaming, LLC
Arkadian Gaming, LLC
Ashiq Gaming, LLC d/b/a Blackjack Gaming
B&B Amusement of Illinois, LLC
Dragonfly Gaming, Inc.
Emperor Video Slots Corporation
Fair Share Gaming, LLC
Laurel Gaming, LLC
Leisure Time Gaming & Amusements, Inc.
Mississippi Gaming and Amusements, LLC
WAMI Gaming, LLC

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve 37 Terminal Handler licenses. Member
Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote. Member Robinson
seconded the motion seconded the motion.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal
Handlers who were licensed or renewed in March 2017, and who have properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fees, and remain in compliance with the requirements of
the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve 66 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for
a period of one year, expiring in March 2019. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

3

 License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or
renewed in March 2017, and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their
annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's
Rules. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the request by Taco Stan's LLC d/b/a Jimbo's
BBQ and Brew to reapply for an establishment license. Member Hansen seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Hansen moved that the Board grant leave to reapply for a retail establishment license to:
•
•
•

Gaggle Dining Corporation d/b/a Long Shots Pub;
Schatze's Sports Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a Schatzes Bar & Grill; and
Sheila R. Snyder d/b/a The Uptown Saloon

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant leave to J.C. Fairview Development, LLC d/b/a
Fairview Quick Stop and Zaynah Petroleum, Inc. d/b/a Zaynah Petroleum, Inc. to apply for retail
establishment licenses. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant leave to AJRJ Sears, Inc. d/b/a One Eye Jacks to
reapply for a retail establishment license. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant leave to reapply for a Terminal Handler license to
Lyle Dean Grant. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Hansen moved that the Board grant CHASERS TAP INC. d/b/a CHASERS TAP leave
to reapply for a retail establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Failure to Disclose
Member Robison moved that the Board amend Disciplinary Complaint DC-V-17-226 against
Lucky Lincoln Gaming, LLC to include additional counts related to the fact of and activity by

4

 undisclosed sales agents. Member Hansen seconded the motion. Member Alejandre abstained
from voting. The motion passed by a 3/0 voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the location
licenses of BGRZ INC. d/b/a 51 Main and Grill and LOOSE TAPS INCORPORATED d/b/a
MEMPHIS ON MAIN, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OTHER MATTERS
Member Hansen moved that the Board adopt the Administrative Law Judge's recommended
decision in DC-V-16-73 in its entirety, and enter a final order revoking the video gaming license
of VILLA NAPOLI L.T.D. d/b/a VILLA NAPOLI. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Administrator/Board

5

 