STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 14, 2010

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board (participated by telephone-conference); Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
and staff members. Philip M. Kazanjian and Elaine L. Tarver also acted as counsel to the Board at this
meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 9, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the November 9, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Kimbrough seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from November 1 through November 30, 2010. He distributed the
report to the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-09-242
City of Washington/Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions
to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tarver's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended
that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After discussion, Member Kimbrough moved to accept the ALJ's
decision, but with modifications thereto. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-09-217
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Ottawa
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Tarver reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Clifford's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision, but with modifications
thereto. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept Counsel Tarver's recommendation. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-09-233
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726/City of Markham
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After
discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's decision. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-10-113
Hazel Crest Professional Fire Fighters Association, International Association of Fire Fighters,
Local 4087/Village of Hazel Crest
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July 7,
2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Hade
moved to accept the executive director's dismissal. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-10-323
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 357/Village of Niles
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
August 26, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to accept the executive director's dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-10-256
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Madison
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
August 31, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the executive director's dismissal. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-11-017
Service Employees Int'l Union, Local 73/County of McHenry/Coroner of McHenry County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 7, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal and order the issuance of an
interest arbitration panel. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept General Counsel Post's
recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.

2

 8.
Case No. S-CA-10-153
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/County of McHenry
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 29, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board reject the executive director's dismissal and remand for hearing the
question of whether the deputy coroners at issue are peace officers within the meaning of the Act. After
discussion, Member Hade moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
9.
Case No. S-CA-11-008
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
County of Warren/Sheriff of Warren County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 28, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to hold the case for decision until the January 11, 2011 meeting. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
10.
Case No. S-CA-11-045
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/City of Marengo
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 28, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal and order the issuance of an
interest arbitration panel. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept General Counsel Post's
recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this
date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of January, 2011.

3

 