STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on April 12, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski,
Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members. Joseph F. Tansino also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MARCH 15, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman requested minor modifications of the draft minutes of the March 15, 2011 meeting.
After the Board discussed the proposal, Member Anderson moved to approve the minutes of the March 15,
2011 meeting, with the requested modifications thereto. Member Sadlowski seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from March 1 to March 31, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

Member Anderson moved that the Board decide the second case on the agenda before hearing oral
argument in the first case. Member Sadlowski seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
1.
Case No. L-CA-09-092
Int'l Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 714/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
September 20, 2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Tansino reviewed the issues presented by the appeal,
and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion, Member
Anderson moved to accept the executive director's dismissal. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-10-026
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 21/City of Chicago/
Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. The Board heard oral argument, recorded by a court reporter. At
the conclusion of the parties' arguments, Chairman Zimmerman made a motion to leave open session.
Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman
Zimmerman made a motion to go into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the case,
pursuant to Section 2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2008). Member Anderson

 seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the
discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to leave executive session. Member Sadlowski seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote. Member Anderson made a motion to hold the case over until the next meeting, for a decision.
Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of May, 2011.

2

 