Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Juan M. Calderon
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
For the Department
Allison Arwady, MD., Chief Medical Officer

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:11 am by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The September 2018 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Chief Medical Officer Allison Arwady provided the following updates:
Mayor’s Budget Address: Commissioner Morita is unable to join us today as she is at Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s final
budget address annual budget speech and state of the city. We look for forward to the CDPH budget hearing next
week as we prepare for the 2019 budget.
Tobacco Prevention Victory: CDPH is thrilled to report that the passing of our new anti-tobacco law further
cements Chicago’s position as a leader in tobacco control and prevention. This law raises the cost of dangerous eproducts, including JUUL, helping to dissuade more youth from ever trying these addictive products. Thank you to
the Board of Health members for your support and advocacy.
Influenza Campaign: It’s that time of year again – flu season! We have launched our annual awareness campaign,
including transit, broadcast and digital ads in both English and Spanish. We are also hosting flu clinics in all 50
wards and you will hear about our Flu Clinic Finder, a web-based app, from our immunization program during the
presentation portion of the meeting today. CDPH has also collaborated with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois,
aldermanic offices and various partners to host community events where residents can get their flu shot for no
out-of-pocket cost. This year, 75 events are planned in all 50 wards.
LGBT Health: In honor of National Coming Out Month, CDPH and Project Vida hosted “Our Stories, Our Voices:
Stories of coming out, triumph and courage” last week October 11th. The event was to share the heritage and
diversity of Hispanic Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer lives. Earlier this year, CDPH released its first
LGBT health report describing the health status of LGBT Chicago residents. CDPH is commitment to using data to
inform decision-making is being recognized. This is a testament to our credibility to building a more equitable
Chicago for the LGBT community.
Request for Information - Healthy Chicago Survey: On October 15, 2018 CDPH released a Request for Information
(RFI) to update the methodology and administration of the Healthy Chicago Survey (HCS). CDPH’s goal for the HCS
continues to be to collect reliable, timely and representative data on root causes, health behaviors and health
outcomes from adults living in the City of Chicago to enable residents and other stakeholders to use the data to
describe and take action towards improving health and health equity. To this end, CDPH is seeking responses from
a variety of organizations, including community-based organizations, survey administrators, researchers, data
scientists, communications experts and any other with related expertise.
Out of Darkness Suicide Prevention Walk: On September 22nd, CDPH employees, family and friends participated
in the Out of Darkness Walk to Fight Suicide organized by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP).
The event was intended to save lives and bring hope to those affected by suicide. For more information and
resources on suicide prevention visit AFSP’s website.
ACA Marketplace Enrollment: The good news is that Chicago’s uninsured rate is below 10%, less than half of what
it was just a few years ago before the Affordable Care Act became law. The bad news is the ACA is under attack by
the Trump Administration so we need to do all we can to ensure people know about their options and get
enrolled. ACA Marketplace enrollment starts November 1st and runs until December 15th. During this time, people
can enroll at healthcare.gov or make a free appointment with a Patient Navigator to help them pick the best health
insurance plan for themselves and their family. The plans offered on healthcare.gov include the essential health
benefits, including access to mental health services, prenatal care, free annual preventive visit and coverage for
pre-existing conditions. People with incomes less than 400% of poverty may be eligible for discounts. Specifically,
the Trump Administration has slashed funding for patient navigators and outreach activities. They are encouraging

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
people to purchase short-term, non-comprehensive plans – that do not provide necessary coverage. We need to
work together to inform Chicagoans how to get comprehensive health coverage and to help them access resources
to get the assistance they need. Promotional material is available free of charge. We have fliers available for you to
take with you on the table. If you would like more fliers, please reach out to Angelica.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided them with an overview of the
board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting
public health.
Policy Update:
Jesse Lava, Director of policy provided the following updates:
o Tobacco. The commissioner’s update mentioned the new anti-tobacco law. I’ll quickly give the specifics
on the vaping tax. The e-cigarette tax has two parts: a tax on each milliliter of liquid with nicotine, and a
tax on each container of liquid with nicotine. The previous tax was $0.80 per container and $0.55 per mL.
The tax is now approximately doubled to $1.50 per container and $1.20 per mL. This effort is in response
to evidence that youth vaping is snowballing.
o Opioids. Two months ago I reported that HHS at the federal level gave out hundreds of millions of dollars
in funding to combat the opioid epidemic but excluded big city health departments. I’m pleased to report
that Congress recognized our critical role and included an explanatory statement in the 2019
appropriations bill that calls on the CDC to make those funds eligible to local health departments. This was
due in part to advocacy by our senators, as well as U.S. representatives from affected big cities across the
country, after we discussed the issue with them. Now we are urging the Trump administration ensure the
intent of Congress is carried out when the funding is put forward next year.
o Public charge. HHS has proposed changes to the “public charge” rule. In short, legal immigrants who are
seeking a green card or other extensions in the U.S. would be more likely to be denied on the basis of
being considered dependent on the government. Today, factors that go into determining an immigrant to
be a public charge include being on Supplemental Security Income (SSI), TANF, and government-funded
long-term institutional care. The new rule would now factor in use of SNAP, Medicare Part D (low-income
subsidy), public housing, Section 8 vouchers, being under 125% of the poverty line, being a child or senior,
having a limited education, and having a large family. This rule does not directly affect WIC recipients
served by CDPH, but we are working with other departments and cities to oppose this change.
o Funding shift. More on HHS: The Trump administration is moving more than $260 million from cancer
research, HIV-AIDS prevention, and other public health areas to cover the cost of housing 13,000
undocumented immigrant children. This shift of funding within HHS comes on the heels of the
Department of Homeland Security shifting $200 million to immigrant detention.
o Affordable Clean Energy rule: On October 1st, Commissioner Morita attended the only public hearing in
the entire country to testify against the EPA’s proposed new rule – the so-called Affordable Clean Energy
Rule – that changes regulations around pollution from coal power plants. The replacement would do little
to protect health or the environment. The current Clean Power Plan embraces renewable energy and
would significantly reduce emissions from power plants, improve air quality and protect public health in
Chicago and around the nation. She not only represented CDPH but the public health departments of New
York, Los Angeles, Houston, San Antonio & Las Vegas.
Comments from Board: Dr. Lopez added details to funding shift topic informing everyone that FEMA & Coast
Guard funds were being directed to detention centers for children. She stressed the concern that in the coming

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: October 17, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
future Medicaid and Medicare will be cut due to the administration’s handling of the budget deficit. Juan Calderon
relayed concerns of HIV/STI in the black community and suggested CDPH to coordinate hearing with the black
caucus.
Presentation: “Immunization Program” by Marcia Levin MPH, Director of Immunization Program, highlighted
CDPH immunization efforts in the city and stated that HPV cancers will be rare in a few years. Joseph Starshak,
included that the $45 million grant for VFCs 700,000 doses, CDPH saved $64.29 per person. Overall, the BOH urged
that this information to be publicized to highlight the value of CDPH’s impact on the city.
Old Business:
Juan Calderon BOH member mentioned, he emailed BOH members (3) recommendations:
• Create a subcommittee to work with Director of Policy to formulate policy recommendations and shared
annually with the Mayor and the Commissioner of Public Health.
• Discuss a change of venue for this year’s meetings e.g. holding board meetings at different health
department centers and communities.
• Invite the African American and Latino Caucus chairpersons of the city council to give a presentation/or
discussion at BOH meetings that would include recommendations on all health related matters in
Chicago’s communities of color.
New Business:
Juan Calderon BOH member reminded the board to invite the Mental Health Advisory Board (MHAB) to a board of
health meeting and to provide a CDPH mental health update. He also asked CDPH to respond to the FOIA request
made by MHAB.
Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:50 am

 