MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
April 21, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 21, 2005 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the Michael A. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe and Members Gary
Peterlin, Eugene Winkler and Charles Gardner. Member Dugan was present telephonically.
Chairman Jaffe convened the April 21, 2005 Regular Meeting at 9:56 A.M. in the 3rd floor
Board Conference Room. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on
today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:40 P.M. Member Dugan was not present during
the Open session portion of today’s meeting.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe announced that the Senate approved Member Gardner, Winkler, and himself
as Board members.
Chairman Jaffe introduced Caleb Melamed who is handling the Board’s legislative affairs.
Chairman Jaffe stated that Mr. Melamed has been on the House staff for over 20 years and
currently serves with the Attorney General. Chairman Jaffe stated that he feels that Mr.
Melamed is an excellent addition to Staff. Chairman Jaffe stated that Mr. Melamed is an
excellent attorney who has great legislative ability.
Board Members’ Comments
Member Peterlin welcomed Mr. Melamed to the Board.

 Member Gardner stated that he was pleased to hear that his appointment has been confirmed
by the Senate without objection.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there is a budge hearing scheduled for April
27, 2005.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a tour of Par-A-Dice Casino
on April 25, 2005 for various legislators.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board has been invited to a meeting on April
29, 2005 to discuss the Board’s independence.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on items that were discussed in Closed
session.
Board Policy Items
Legislative Proposals – Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board would be discussing the
legislation that involves the Board’s independence at a future meeting once the legislation is
complete.
Interim Administrator Tamayo discussed the legislative proposals that involve the Gaming
Board.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that there is a proposal that would restrict post
employment for five years. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the current Code of
Conduct that the Board has approved provides for a one-year restriction on post IGB
employment for the Administrator, the Deputy Administrators, and all legal counsel. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that other individuals are entitled to seek a waiver from the
Board before that would be exercised.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he feels that a five-year restriction is too long and not reasonable.
Chairman Jaffe stated that you want good people who learn certain things to go into the
private sector and carry out the good things that they’ve learned in the public sector.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that there is a Bill pending that addresses child support
collection and whether the casinos have a role in that. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated
that the current proposal states that the casinos are to check child support delinquency lists
before jackpots and winnings are paid.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he is in favor of the casinos collecting child support. Chairman
Jaffe stated that the casinos have been reluctant in the past to collect child support, and they

2

 have valid reasons for being reluctant; however, we live in a very computerized society,
which would make the process easier to identify patrons who owe child support.
Member Peterlin expressed his support for the legislation. Member Peterlin stated that he is
excited that the legislation is being considered, and he hopes that the industry will support
the legislation. Member Peterlin stated that the legislation should provide some type of
protection for the licensees so if a mistake is made the licensees would be free of
responsibility for an honest mistake.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the other legislative proposal involves revenue
sharing and how the revenue that is generated from tax distributions of the casinos are shared
with the host community or communities other than the host community.
Member Peterlin stated that there is over $100 million dollars a year that is shared with local
communities. Member Peterlin stated that the communities have done well with the money.
Member Peterlin stated that at the same time there is a host of other communities that could
also benefit. Member Peterlin stated that the problems that occur with gambling are not
limited to any particular community where the nine boats operate, the problems find
themselves back to the local communities throughout the State. Member Peterlin stated that
the money that is generated from the nine licensees comes from all over the State, as well as
out of State. Member Peterlin stated that the other communities in Illinois that lose their
dollars to the casinos are shrinking dollars for programs that otherwise could be funded or
financed in the local communities. Member Peterlin stated that hopefully the legislation
would provide for sharing of local dollars across the State.
Gene O’Shea, Acting Self-Exclusion Director, provided the Board with a brief history of the
Self-Exclusion Program and statistics to date on the program. Mr. O’Shea stated that Illinois
has 25 locations, one of which is in the State of Iowa. Mr. O’Shea stated that Illinois’ SelfExclusion Program is the only State operated self-exclusion program that has a site in
another State. Mr. O’Shea stated that Illinois’ Self-Exclusion Program has more locations
where people can sign up than any other jurisdiction that offers self-exclusion programs. Mr.
O’Shea stated that to date there are 2,354 people enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program.
Member Peterlin stated that there is $960,000 appropriated a year in the Department of
Human Services (DHS). Member Peterlin inquired if Staff had any coordination with DHS
as to how the money is being spent, to ensure that services are being provided to people with
gambling addictions. Mr. O’Shea stated that DHS has been very helpful in providing new
sites that would act as enrollment sites for the Self-Exclusion Programs.
Member Peterlin requested that Mr. O’Shea research where services are provided around the
State of Illinois to make sure that people have a chance to get in the programs regardless of
where they are in the State.
Member Peterlin asked to what extent are the licensees operating their own exclusion
programs alongside the Board’s Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. O’Shea stated that there are
3

 still a number of licensees that have their own self-exclusion program in conjunction with the
Board’s program.

Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board has identified that in light of the
anticipated changes on the Board in July, the Board would only adopt regular board
meetings for the months of May and June. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that at a
subsequent point in time, the Board would adopt meetings for July through December.
Member Peterlin moved that the board adopt the following dates for regulatory
meetings in May and June, 2005.
May 24, 2005
June 8, 2005
June 16, 2005

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Public Commentary
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association (ICGA), was present to
discuss the efforts of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association. Mr. Swoik announced that in
its ongoing efforts to promote responsible gaming and utilize its resources in the most
effective manner, ICGA awarded an additional $50,000 grant to Chicago-based Bensinger,
DuPont & Associates (BDA), which is a national behavioral health provider.
Peter Bensinger, President and CEO, Bensinger DuPont & Associates, was present to discuss
the problem gambling help line. Mr. Bensinger provided the Board with a brief presentation
outlining statistics that included the types of services that the help line provides; the call
volume; the number of intakes a year; the percentage of callers by the times of the day; the
types of callers; caller’s demographics; caller’s age; caller’s gender and marital status; and
the caller’s gambling activity since calling the help line.
Dr. Gerald E. Forshey, was present to discuss the Board’s obligation to make sure that the
holder of a license is free from wrongdoing or even the appearance of wrongdoing. Dr.
Forshey also discussed his concerns regarding people who have gambling addictions and lose
their families and livelihoods as a result. Dr. Forshey stated that the Board is charged by the
Riverboat Gambling Act to protect people from gambling beyond their means.

4

 Wayne Burdick, President, The Outreach Foundation, was present to provided the Board
with a brief overview of the Foundation. Mr. Burdick stated that the Foundation’s purpose is
to provide public awareness and education at the level of high schools, colleges, senior
citizens, and companies. Mr. Burdick discussed the lack of funding for the Foundation and
urged the Board for its help so that the Foundation could continue public awareness and
education.
Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action, was present to discuss Casino Rock
Island’s proposal for relocation, and the Attorney General’s opinion stating that the Illinois
Gaming Board did not have the authority to permit the relocation of a riverboat within a
community. Ms. Bedell requested that the Board reject the relocation of Casino Rock Island
and Casino Queen.
Owner Licensee Items
Mandalay Bay – Proposed Sale to MGM Mirage – Charles Sklarsky was present on behalf of
Mandaly Resort Group. Mr. Sklarsky stated that MGM Mirage and Mandalay Resort group
have entered into a merger agreement, which, when consummated, will result in MGM
Mirage becoming the owner of the merged entity. Mr. Sklarsky requested the Board’s
approval for the transfer of ownership by Nevada Landing of its 50% ownership interest in
the Elgin Riverboat Resort, Riverboat Casino to an escrow agent in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the escrow agreement.
John Janicik was present on behalf of RBG, LP, which is the other 50% owner of the Elgin
Riverboat Resort, Riverboat Casino to address and briefly describe the transition services
agreement regarding the management of the casino once the merger has occurred.
Mandalay Bay- Proposed Merger – Member Winkler moved that the Board adopted a
resolution regarding the proposed merger(see attached resolution). Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Grand Victoria Casino – Trudy Malkey, External Staff Auditor – Request for Waiver of One
Year Prohibition on Post IGB Affiliation or Employment and Request for Approval to
Become Employed as Assistant Controller of Grand Victoria Casino - Donna More was
present on behalf of Grand Victoria and Trudy Malkey to request final approval for a waiver
of the one year prohibition on post IGB affiliation or employment, and to request final
approval for Ms. Malkey to become employed with Grand Victoria Casino.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Trudy Malkey’s request for waiver of the one year prohibition
on post IGB affiliation or employment and approve her request to accept employment
as Assistant Controller of the Grand Victoria Casino. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve 33 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 76 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3.
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
direct the Interim Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to the following two
applicants for Level 3 licenses, each of whom previously received notice that staff
intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional
information to rebut the recommendation:
1. Derrick Brooks; and
2. Taylor Durling.

At 3:27 P.M., Member Gardner moved that pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11),
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned Closed session at 4:21 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

6

 Mandalay Bay- Escrow Agreement
Member Winkler moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Elgin Riverboat Resort-Riverboat Casino (ERR), an Illinois General Partnership, is
an Illinois owner licensee doing business as Grand Victoria Casino (Grand Victoria). RBG, L.P.,
an Illinois limited partnership (the Illinois Group), and Nevada Landing Partnership, an Illinois
general partnership (the Nevada Group), each hold a 50% ownership interest in ERR pursuant to
a Joint Venture Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Joint Venture is governed by a certain Amended and Restated Joint
Venture Agreement, as amended.
WHEREAS, the Nevada Group is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Mandalay
Resort Group, a Nevada corporation (Mandalay Bay), which has agreed to merge with and into a
wholly-owned subsidiary of MGM Mirage, a Delaware corporation (MGM).
WHEREAS, in connection with, and to facilitate the completion of the merger, the
Nevada Group will deposit all of the Nevada Group’s partnership interest in the joint venture
into escrow pursuant to and in accordance with an escrow agreement between the Nevada Group
and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, an escrow agent approved by the Board.
WHEREAS, in connection with, and to facilitate the completion of the merger, the
Nevada Group will deposit with the escrow agent an assignment in blank of the Nevada Group’s
joint venture interest to be executed and delivered by the escrow agent in disbursement of the
escrow upon receipt of written notice from the Nevada Group that final Board action has been
taken approving MGM as a key person pursuant to the Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules and
the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act.
WHEREAS, in connection with, and to facilitate the completion of the merger, the
Illinois Group and the Nevada Group will enter into an Amended And Restated Joint Venture
Agreement.
WHEREAS, in connection with, and to facilitate the completion of the merger, MGM
and Mandalay Bay will enter into an Assignment And Transition Services Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE,
Be It Resolved that the Board approves the Nevada Group’s request to deposit all of the
Nevada Group’s partnership interest in the joint venture into escrow pursuant to and in
accordance with the Escrow Agreement.

7

 Be It Resolved that the Board approves the Nevada Group’s request to deposit with the
escrow agent an assignment in blank of the Nevada Group’s joint venture interest to be executed
and delivered by the escrow agent in disbursement of the escrow upon receipt of written notice
from the Nevada Group that final Board action has been taken approving MGM as a key person
pursuant to the Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules and the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act.
Be It Resolved that based on an Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement and an
Assignment and Transition Services Agreement, the Board delegates to the Administrator final
approval of the Escrow Agreement.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

8

 