STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on November 8, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Board
(participated by telephone-conference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD October 4, 2011

Mr. Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the October 4, 2011 meeting. Member Sadlowski moved to
approve the minutes of the October 4, 2011 meeting. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Mr. Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the period of
time from October 1 to October 31, 2011. He presented the report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-RC-07-017
Illinois Council of Police/City of Chicago/ Service International Union, Local 73 and International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, Local 21

Mr. Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) Hamburg-Gal's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), stating that the Petitioner has failed to
show any error in the ALJ’s recommendation, and that the evidence supports her conclusion that the petition should be
dismissed. After discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to affirm the General Counsel’s recommendation to
affirm the administrative law judge’s recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-06-079
National Nurses Organizing Committee/County of Cook

Mr. Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian’s RDO and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

3.

Case No. L-CA-12-004

Grover Stephens/County of Cook
Mr. Gierut called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on September 22, 2011, and an
appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal recommending that the Board
uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. Charging Party failed to respond to the Board's request for information
and/or evidence in support of his charge and never notified the Board in writing that Respondent had been served with
his appeal. Charging Party's particular lack of compliance with the Rules warrants dismissal of this charge. After
discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to affirm the General Counsel’s recommendation to affirm the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report. The Chair and Members then discussed and questioned various
aspects of the fiscal report. Executive Director Brosnan addressed their concerns. Thereafter, Executive Director
Brosnan updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency. After a short discussion
regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of December, 2011.

2

 