MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
August 21, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, August 21, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:23 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members
Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 24, 2014. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
•

Ms. Anita Bedell – Illinois Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems

Ms. Bedell read the following statement:
In May, the Nevada Gaming Control Board told its license holders that they cannot participate in
Nevada’s medical marijuana business unless and until the federal government legalizes it. I emailed a copy of the notice the Gaming Control board sent to licensees to mark Ostrowski and
asked him to share it with the Illinois Gaming Board.
Nevada is considered the “gold standard” for regulation of gambling, and their “Board believes
that any such investment or involvement by gaming licensees or applicants would tend to reflect
discredit upon gaming in the State.”
Marijuana was legalized as medicine in Illinois in 2013, however, marijuana is still in violation
of federal law. The applications for those seeking a license to grow medical marijuana in
cultivation centers or a license to sell it in a medical marijuana dispensary are expected to be
available in September. The number of medical marijuana dispensaries is currently set at 60,
with one cultivation center in each of the 21 State Police Districts.
The seeking a license have started companies and are working to secure locations and asking for
recommendations from local officials now so they will have a “leg up” on the competition for
these lucrative licenses.
The Southern Illinois newspaper reported Jack Lavin, former chief of staff for Governor Quinn,
signed on with a newly formed Effingham-based company, Healthcentral LLC, to compete for

 one of the medical marijuana growing operations in Illinois. According to the newspaper, the
company lists Effingham attorney Matthew Hortenstine and Springfield lobbyist Christopher
Stone as its principals. (May 18, 2014) Mr. Hortenstine is President/manager and Mr. Stone is
Vice-President/Treasurer/manager of Lucy’s Place, a video gambling establishment.
The State Journal-Register reported that Mr.. Stone is working with a group of investors who are
eyeing a specific location in Springfield for a dispensary. Mr. Stone is working with investors,
who plan to submit applications for two other dispensaries and three cultivation centers across
the state. (August 16, 2014)
Are other holders of an Illinois Gaming license doing the same? While the Illinois Legislature
has legalized marijuana as medicine, the Controlled Substances Act makes it illegal under federal
law to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or possess marijuana. We ask that the Board follow the
lead of the Nevada Gaming Control Board and issue a notice to holders of an Illinois Gaming
license than any investment or other involvement in the medical marijuana business or
application process if prohibited.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
• The Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton – Patrick R. Murray – Level
One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve Patrick R.
Murray as a Level One Occupational Licensee at The Alton Gaming Company d/b/a
Argosy Casino Alton in his position as Internal Audit Manager. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
• Ditronics Financial Services LLC – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to renew the Supplier
License of Ditronics Financial Services LLC effective August 21, 2014 for a period of
four years, expiring in August 2018, and designate the following persons and positions as
Key Persons: George James Vasilakos, George Steven Vasilakos, President and Chief
Executive Officer. Further, I move Ditronics be approved to supply the products as
outlined in its approval letter. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. – Constance K. James – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve Constance K. James as
a Key Person of Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. in her roles as President, CFO, Secretary,
Treasurer and Director. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
• WMS Gaming Inc. – William Huntley – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve William Huntley
as a Key Person of WMS Gaming Inc. in his role as Executive Vice President and Group
Chief Executive of Gaming for Scientific Games Corporation. Member Gould seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 • Bally Gaming, Inc. – Richard M. Haddrill – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele move to approve Richard M.
Haddrill as a Key Person of Bally Gaming, Inc. in his role as Chief Executive
Officer/Director. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
• Gemaco, Inc. – Surrender of License
Member Gould moved to allow Gemaco, Inc. to surrender its Supplier’s License
effective August 21, 2014. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to find suitable and approve
65 level 2 occupational licenses, and 109 level 3 occupational licenses. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to issue Disciplinary
Complaints to revoke the occupational licenses of Dontell Jamal Porter and Griselda
Mata for their conduct involving theft, said actions to take effect 21 days from the dates
of service of the Complaints unless the licensees file Answers within that time period.
Member Vander Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING:
• In Re: the Disciplinary Action of Betty Alm: DC-14-03
Pursuant to Board Rule 1155, Member Gould move to adopt a Final Board Order,
adopting the Administrative Law Judge’s Order Pursuant to Gaming Board’s Motion for
Summary Judgment and Revoking the occupational license held by Betty Alm.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:38 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 