MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
July 1, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on July 1, 2002. The
Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory Jones and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, Tobias Barry, and Violet Clark.
The meeting convened at 1:03 P.M. Pursuant to Sections 2(c), paragraphs 4 and 11 of the
Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s (July 1, 2002) agenda and relating to the following subject matter:
1. Administrative hearings;

2. Litigation involving Emerald Casino, Inc.; and
3. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:58 P.M.
Administrator Parenti updated the public on the proposed Emerald settlement. Administrator
Parenti stated that Judge Sophia Hall issued a decision in favor of the Board’s regulatory
powers and against Emerald’s and Rosemont’s argument that the Board is required to
approve and allow Emerald to relocate to Rosemont. Administrator Parenti stated that Judge
Hall held that the Riverboat Gambling Act, including section 11.2 and section 7(g), must be
read consistently under constitutional law, and that any relocation effort must meet the
renewal requirements of section 7(g) and, accordingly, must have Board approval.
Administrator Parenti stated that Rosemont’s legal efforts over the last week were denied in
court.
Public Commentary
Jack Roeser, Family Taxpayer’s Network, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement agreement. Mr. Roeser stated that in his opinion the State should take over all of
the gaming and have independent people operate it. Mr. Roeser stated that the Board has
denied Mr. Roeser and Senator O’Malley information about the finances of the individual

 riverboats. Mr. Roeser stated that there is no public information on the extraordinarily large
profits that casinos are making, which means that the Emerald settlement negotiations are
going on without any public knowledge of the immense amount of money that riverboats
earn. Mr. Roeser stated that he does not feel that the Board can go forward with selling a
casino to anyone without the public knowing the value of a casino license.
Ms. Chaz Ebert, Emerald minority shareholder, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement agreement. Ms. Ebert commended the Gaming Board staff for conducting the
negotiations that resulted in the proposed Emerald settlement. Ms. Ebert stated that she
disagreed with some of the provisions in the proposed Emerald settlement, specifically
Provision B, Shareholder Buyout, and Provision C, Emerald Liabilities. Ms. Ebert stated that
out of the ten casino licenses in the State of Illinois, Emerald was the first, and probably the
last, to mandate any minority participation. Ms. Ebert stated that as the Emerald settlement
goes forward, she hopes that the interest of the minority investors would be taken into
consideration.
Rev. William G. Owen, Grayslake United Protestant Church, was present to discuss the
proposed Emerald settlement agreement. Rev. Owen stated that the investors of Emerald
should not expect to be “made hole” because they provided misleading information to the
Board and had connections with organized crime. Rev. Owen stated that if the Rule of Law
is to be protected, the Emerald settlement must be rejected.
Frank W. DiCastri, Attorney, Foley and Lardner was present on behalf of Rosemont to
discuss the proposed Emerald settlement agreement. Mr. DiCastri stated that the Board
suggests that Emerald would be sold in an “open, fair and competitive bidding process,” yet
in the same breath informs the public that the Board, in its sole discretion, would determine
the sale procedures, and would choose the winning bid. Mr. DiCastri stated that a bidding
process that is controlled by the Board, and which produces a winning bid only when the
Board declares it to be so, is not “open, fair and competitive.” Mr. DiCastri stated that only
through a neutral, disinterested process under the supervision of a court of appropriate
jurisdiction, could we really determine which offer is in the best interests of Emerald, its
creditors, its shareholders, and citizens of the State of Illinois. Mr. DiCastri stated that the
Board has yet to explain from what source it derives the authority to manipulate the sale of
Emerald’s license on the open market. Mr. DiCastri invited the Board to cite the specific
statutory authority, which authorizes its proposed sale of the license on the open market.
Rev. Tom Grey, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling was present to discuss the
proposed Emerald settlement. Mr. Grey stated that the Emerald investors are “winners.” Mr.
Grey stated that it is not fair for Emerald investors to get their original investment back. Mr.
Grey stated that the shareholders took a gamble when they invested in Emerald, and they
should lose just like gamblers in casinos lose their money. Mr. Grey stated that the winners
from the Emerald proposed settlement are the shareholders, lawyers, and the other cities,
such as Calumet City and Rockford, who would like to see a casino in their town. Mr. Grey
stated that the negative aspect of the Emerald settlement is that the Board is going to trade
money for principal. Mr. Grey stated that integrity, trust, and the public’s confidence has
2

 been lost. Mr. Grey stated that the Board needs to do what regulators should do, and that is
to “let the chips fall where they may.”
Illinois State Senator, Patrick O’Malley, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement. Senator O’Malley stated that, in his opinion, any proposed deal to settle the
Emerald dispute would not satisfy the public outrage its various elements would engender.
Senator O’Malley stated that the message that would be sent is that risk capital bares no risk
if associated with gambling. Senator O’Malley stated that, in his opinion, no decision should
be made on the 10th license without further action of the General Assembly to repair the
flawed legislation that authorized the 10th license. Senator O’Malley asked that the Board
take heed to the following: (1) it is wrong for people that have been accused of wrongdoing
and people who have been accused of having mob ties to receive their investments back; (2)
the Board needs to make potentially incriminating information available to the public; (3) the
Board should not be making a final decision on the proposed Emerald settlement on the same
day that it allows the public to voice their opinion; (4) the State can not balance its books
with the proceeds of any potential sale; and (5) the Board should let the General Assembly
step up to do its job, the Board should not be put in a position of having to do it for the
General Assembly.
Joseph Wiegand, an Illinois taxpayer, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement. Mr. Wiegand urged the Board not to vote on the settlement and not to reverse the
hope that the people of Illinois felt about the regulatory bodies in Illinois 18 months ago.
Mr. Wiegand asked the Board why they were in such a rush to vote on a settlement that has
been available to the public for less than one week. Mr. Wiegand asked if the rush was
because time and public review would illuminate the shortchanging of the public’s interest.
Mr. Wiegand stated that the terms of the agreement, especially the terms concerning the
buyout of the shareholders and the assumption of “Old Emerald’s” liabilities by “New
Emerald,” violates the public welfare on two counts: (1) buying out the existing shareholders
rewards dishonesty and collusion with the underworld and sends a message that Illinois
regulators lack the courage to do what is right and (2) the Board has proposed to saddle
“New Emerald” with so many of “Old Emerald’s” liabilities that the market value of the 10th
license would be greatly depressed, thus leaving the people of Illinois profiting less.
Timothy J. Patenode, Attorney for KMZ Rosenman, was present on behalf of Marvin Davis
to discuss the proposed settlement. Mr. Patenode stated that the Davis Companies object to
the June 24, 2002, offer term sheet signed by Kevin Flynn and respectfully asks that the
Board not accept the offer until it is modified to appropriately address the rights of the Davis
Companies. Mr. Patenode stated that the Davis Companies is the holder of a valid claim
against Emerald Casino. Mr. Patenode stated that over the last sever years the Davis
Companies have fully cooperated with the Gaming Board in its investigation of Emerald
Casino. Mr. Patenode stated that the Davis Companies has been substantially injured by the
actions of Emerald Casino, and the offer term sheet does not give appropriate recognition to
the Davis Companies claims. Mr. Patenode stated that the proposed transaction should be
restructured so that the new Emerald entity should assume the Davis Companies claim and so

3

 that the cash proceeds to the Flynns under the offer term sheet should be escrowed to secure
the obligations to the Davis Companies and other claimants.
Ferdinand Serpe, Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of Calumet City, was present on
behalf Dominick Gigliotti, Mayor of Calumet City, to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement. Mr. Serpe stated that the city officials of Calumet City support the proposed
settlement agreement between the Illinois Gaming Board and Emerald Casino, Inc. Mr.
Serpe stated that Calumet City, located between the Little Calumet and the Grand Calumet
Rivers, has suffered greatly in the area of unemployment. Mr. Serpe stated that the demise
of the steel mills and refineries have caused many of Calumet City’s residents, along with
those of Chicago’s South Side and neighboring suburbs, to lose their jobs. Mr. Serpe stated
that Calumet City has vast acreage along the banks of the Calumet and Grand Calumet
Rivers that has never been developed. Mr. Serpe stated that a gaming license in Calumet
City would mean economic development to an economically depressed, yet strategically
geographic, area of the State of Illinois. Mr. Serpe stated that a gaming license in Calumet
City would attract hundreds of millions of dollars away from Indiana and would provide an
enticing facility to keep persons from traveling outside of Illinois to recreate and wager.
John E. Dougherty, Attorney, was present on behalf of Shaun Gayle, Emerald minority
investor, to discuss the proposed Emerald settlement. Mr. Dougherty stated that he feels that
his client, Shaun Gayle, and the other minority shareholders should have their legal fees and
the interest that was paid to third parties returned to them. Mr. Dougherty stated that the
proposed settlement was not a situation where Mr. Gayle had a lot of options. Mr.
Dougherty stated that an opportunity has now been made available for minorities to
participate, but the current structure of the proposed settlement essentially calls for a forced
sale by the minority shareholders that would allow them to repurchase their interest. Mr.
Dougherty stated that the process of a forced sale and a buyback might prevent certain
minorities from repurchasing their interest due to the transaction cost and the potential price
to buy back into the new license. Mr. Dougherty suggested that it would be a more fair
process if the Board conducted background investigations of each of the minority
shareholders; and if the minority shareholders pass the investigative background check, they
should be permitted to retain their current investments.
Gregg Horan, Managing Partner of Gibson’s Steakhouse, was present to discuss the proposed
Emerald settlement. Mr. Horan stated that he believes that the City of Rosemont has been
betrayed. Mr. Horan stated that contrary to what some people have insinuated, Rosemont is
not a city where a criminal lies around every corner. Mr. Horan stated that Rosemont is a
great place to work, to do business, and the only logical location for the 10th license. Mr.
Horan stated that Gibson’s Steakhouse supports having a casino in Rosemont because it
would do the most good for the State and its people. Mr. Horan stated that having a casino in
Rosemont would be another reason for conventions to bring their shows to both Downtown
and to the Rosemont Convention Center, which would bring millions of dollars to the State.

4

 Richard Morgan, Managing Director of Hyatt O’Hare, was present to discuss the proposed
Emerald settlement. Mr. Morgan stated that the Village of Rosemont is a wonderful place to
do business. Mr. Morgan stated that Rosemont is safe, clean, and secure, and the
management of Rosemont would follow all of the Board’s guidelines, which is why
Rosemont should, in his opinion, be the place where the 10th casino license is located.
Mayor Anthony Calderone, Mayor of Forest Park and President of the West Central
Municipal Conference, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald settlement. Mr.
Calderone stated that 71 communities, representing more than half of Cook County, came to
the same conclusion that a gaming facility in Rosemont presents not only an optimal location
but also an unparalleled opportunity for inter-governmental cooperation. Mr. Calderone
stated that the Village of Forest Park, located a few miles from Rosemont, stands “hand in
hand” with all of the communities that are part of a proposed revenue sharing agreement.
Mr. Calderone stated that he supports the Board in making sure that wrongdoers do not profit
from the proposed Emerald settlement. Mr. Calderone stated that he would like for the
Board to grant a license to whoever would be best qualified to have the license. Mr.
Claderone stated that he would like for the Board to make a decision that would allow the
new license to still be located in the Village of Rosemont so that the 71 communities could
share the benefit of needed revenue.
Irene Brodie, Mayor of Robbins, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald settlement.
Ms. Brodie stated that she supports having a casino in the Village of Rosemont. Ms. Brodie
stated Emerald is the first license, to her knowledge, where underdeveloped communities
were offered a share of casino revenue. Ms. Brodie stated that whoever the 10th license is
issued to should include minorities. Ms. Brodie stated that Robbins is one of the 14 poorest
communities in the country, and the second poorest in Cook County, which is not a
distinction that the City of Robbins enjoys having. Ms. Brodie stated that Village of
Rosemont made a commitment to include the City of Robbins, which is why she is in favor
of a casino in Rosemont. Ms. Brodie asked that when the Board makes its decision that the
Board keep the underdeveloped communities in mind.
Terrence Norton, Better Government Association (BGA), was present to discuss the
proposed Emerald settlement. Mr. Norton stated that BGA recommends that the Board reject
the proposed settlement. Mr. Norton stated that there is a flaw in the Riverboat Gambling Act
by which Emerald has sought to operate a license in Rosemont. Mr. Norton stated that the
legislature passed special legislation that only benefited Emerald Casino. Mr. Norton stated
that Administrator Parenti had earlier stated that all of the litigation had been settled;
however, there is still a lawsuit pending in the Circuit Court of Cook County, which was
filed by a taxpayer. Mr. Norton stated that he feels that it would be a mistake for the Board
to move forward with a proposed settlement that could be “blown apart” by the taxpayer’s
lawsuit. Mr. Norton stated that neither the Board nor the State of Illinois owes Emerald or its
investors anything. Mr. Norton stated that the Board represents the taxpayers and the
citizens of Illinois. Mr. Norton stated that the Board does not have the authority to bid out
the 10th license. Mr. Norton stated that the Board could only do what it has done in the past

5

 and that is give a license to an applicant for $50,000 dollars. Mr. Norton stated that the
Board could not oversee competitive bidding.
Earl Field, Village President of River Forest, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald
settlement. Mr. Field stated that the Board has done an admirable job with the other nine
riverboat casino licenses. Mr. Field asked that the Board do the right thing and award a
license to Rosemont. Mr. Field stated that River Forest is one of the 71 municipalities that
needs the revenue that a casino in Rosemont could provide. Mr. Field stated that Rosemont
is the only village that has thought about sharing the revenues with 71 other municipalities.
Mr. Field stated that with the shrinking revenues and sales tax, and the inability for a village
to provide increased taxes, River Forest needs the additional revenue. Mr. Field urged the
Board to make their decision in favor of the Village of Rosemont.
Cindy Canary, Illinois Campaign for Political Reform, was present to discuss the proposed
Emerald settlement. Ms. Canary stated that the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform tracks
money in politics at the state level and looks at ethics in government. Ms. Canary stated that
the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform takes no position on gaming; however, the
organization is acutely concerned about the influence of money on public policy and the
public perception of undo influence and corruption. Ms. Canary stated that when the
Gaming Board rejected the transfer of Emerald Casino’s license to Rosemont in January of
2001 the citizens of Illinois saw good government in action. Ms. Canary commended the
Board for its action in January of 2001, and urged the Board to show that kind of leadership
and integrity by rejecting the proposed Emerald settlement offer.
Rita Mullins, Mayor of Palatine, was present to discuss the proposed Emerald settlement.
Ms. Mullins stated that a casino in Rosemont would mean that almost $500,000 dollars
would go to the City of Palatine. Ms. Mullins stressed that the City of Palatine could use the
extra revenue. Ms. Mullins stated that a casino in Rosemont would mean that there would be
new municipal revenues, which would mean fewer increases to property taxes and more
money for education, transportation, and public safety needs. Ms. Mullins stated that
because Rosemont is near the airport, a casino in Rosemont would attract out-of-state
revenue. Ms. Mullins stated that no other proposal has the positive revenue sharing aspect
that the Rosemont location has. Ms. Mullins urged the Board to do what is best for the State
of Illinois, which, in her opinion, is to allow the 10th license to be located in Rosemont.
Nancy Duel, Northern Illinois Conference, Anti-Gambling Task Force, was present to
discuss the proposed Emerald settlement. Ms. Duel urged the Board to reject the proposed
Emerald settlement. Ms. Duel stated that Emerald’s license revocation action needs to
proceed through the proper legal procedures for justice to be done. Ms. Duel stated that there
are too many issues and other related litigation concerning Emerald Casino for the Board to
accept a “quick fix.” Ms. Duel stated that there are serious concerns about the
constitutionality of the specialized legislation passed in 1999 concerning the 10th license.
Ms. Duel stated that prior to the l999 legislation, it would not have been possible for the 10th
license to be located in Cook County or on a boat or barge that does not cruise. Ms. Duel
asked the Board in what other business ventures that fail does the investors get back their
6

 original investments. Ms. Duel stated that there is no need to reward any of the Emerald
investors for a bad investment by returning their original investment and covering their legal
costs. Ms. Duel stated that the purpose of the Board is to regulate the gambling industry in
Illinois. Ms. Duel stated that it is not the Board’s responsibility to raise money to bail out the
budget for the State of Illinois. Ms. Duel urged the Board not to accept an ill-conceived
settlement deal.
Thomas Kirkpatrick, President, Chicago Crime Commission, was present to discuss the
proposed settlement. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that the Chicago Crime Commission is opposed
to having a casino in the Village of Rosemont. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that the Board found
Emerald unfit to operate a casino in Illinois. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that Emerald challenged
the Board’s findings that Emerald’s investors are unfit to operate a casino in Illinois. Mr.
Kirkpatrick stated that an administrative hearing is currently underway to allow the Board to
put into public record its evidence of “Old Emerald’s” misrepresentations. Mr. Kirkpatrick
stated that Emerald casino does not have a license to sell because the Board found Emerald
unfit to hold a license. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that licensees should not be able to sell their
licenses at will. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that Emerald investors should not receive a profit, nor
should Emerald’s liabilities be assumed by a prospective buyer. Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that
Illinois taxpayers should not be placed in the position of bailing out the Emerald investors.
Mr. Kirkpatrick stated that a major flaw in the proposed settlement agreement is that it leaves
open the possibility that the Village of Rosemont might be eligible as a casino site. Mr.
Kirkpatrick stated that based on the facts that have unfolded, the Village of Rosemont is not
a suitable location for a licensed casino. Mr. Kirkpatrick urged the Board to demand that the
Emerald settlement be rejected in its current form.
Jerome Siegan, Attorney, Earl Neal and Associates, was present to discuss the proposed
settlement. Mr. Siegan stated that he represents sixteen minority and women shareholders of
Emerald Casino, Inc. Mr. Siegan stated that the sixteen minority and women shareholders
became shareholders in Emerald as a result of legislation of the General Assembly, which
mandated that Emerald offer minorities and women an opportunity to become shareholders.
Mr. Siegan stated that on the basis of the legislative mandate, in 1999, the minorities and
women invested $30 million dollars, an amount equal to almost 50% of the total monies
invested in Emerald. Mr. Siegan stated that the Board has never made any allegation that
any of the minority or women shareholders have ever engaged in any improper conduct as it
relates to the disciplinary matters currently pending against Emerald. Mr. Siegan stated that
the minority and women shareholders had no participation in the management or operation of
Emerald. Mr. Siegan stated that the minority and women shareholders wish only to be made
whole and not suffer a loss due to the actions of others. Mr. Siegan requested that the Board
require “New Emerald” to pay the attorney fees and costs incurred by the minority and
women shareholders. Mr. Siegan stated that the proposed Emerald settlement agreement
should specify the terms by which minority shareholders can reinvest in “New Emerald.”
Mr. Siegan asked that the Board protect the integrity of the minority and women
shareholders, which was mandated by the General Assembly.

7

 Mr. Robert Shapiro, outside counsel to the Board, stated that it is important to listen to all of
the concerns that have been raised and that he would take them into consideration during the
course of any settlement discussions and during any recommendations to the Board. Mr.
Shapiro briefed the public and the Board on the details of the proposed settlement to clear up
any uncertainties as to what the settlement is proposing.
At 3:50 P.M. Member Barry moved that pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (4) and (11)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board
retire to Closed Session to discuss the following subject matters:
1. Administrative Hearings;
2. Litigation involving Emerald Casino, Inc.; and
3. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 4:50 the Board resumed to Open Session.
Chairman Jones stated that he is the only Board member that has been around for the entire
Emerald matter, which dates back to 1999. Chairman Jones stated that the Emerald matter
has been long and controversial. Chairman Jones stated that suspicion of secret deals and
closed-door discussions emerged during the administrative hearing, and Chairman Jones felt
that the suspicion negatively impacted the Emerald matter. Chairman Jones stated that as the
Board entered into settlement discussions with Emerald, the Board wanted to try to restore to
the process an openness, fairness, competitiveness, and a transparency, so that the citizens of
Illinois could see what was going on and what factors the Board was considering during the
Board’s decision making process. Chairman Jones stated that in order to settle the case with
Emerald, as a core principle, the Board would require the process to be open to all developers
and communities and to be fair. Chairman Jones stated that as the proposed Emerald
settlement relates to “best offer,” it does not necessarily mean best financial offer. Chairman
Jones stated that there are other factors that the Board would take into consideration that
would ensure that no potential location or developer had a “leg up.” Chairman Jones stated
that Emerald’s sale would truly be an open and competitive process. Chairman Jones invited
the Attorney General to analyze the competitive bidding process, to monitor the process, and
to be a participant with the Board. Chairman Jones stated that another core value since the
Emerald process started in 1999 was that the Board would not reward wrongdoers.
Chairman Jones stated that no settlement is perfect. Chairman Jones stated that during a
settlement, the goal is to try to achieve the core principals that are in the best interest of the
public, and that is what the Board has tried to do in the Emerald matter. Chairman Jones
stated that he is aware that many people believe that avoiding lengthy litigation is not an
appropriate factor to consider in a settlement; however, Chairman Jones stated that
sometimes practical realities come into effect that require considerations of what is in the
best interests of the State. Chairman Jones stated that he believed that getting the 10th casino
operational and facilitating a resolution to litigation that could last for several years was in
8

 the public’s best interest. Chairman Jones addressed the public’s concern regarding
information, which might have been presented in the Emerald hearing, being concealed if the
Emerald hearing does not proceed. Chairman Jones stated that the information would be
made public to the extent that the information is relevant to the selection of any new licensee
or any new location.
Member Rogal stated that the proposed Emerald settlement is more favorable than any
settlement pertaining to Emerald that he has previously reviewed. Member Rogal stated that
during his term on the Board he has served with four different Board members, other than the
Chairman, and there were many discussions regarding Emerald. Member Rogal stated that
based upon the discussions that Member Rogal shared with the previous Board members,
Member Rogal could honestly say that every one of those other four former Board members
would have also been in support of the Emerald settlement proposal. Member Rogal stated
that is it very important to have a fair, open, and competitive process, and that it is important
for the Board to obtain input from the public, existing Emerald shareholders, municipalities,
and the potential bidders as to how the process should work. Member Rogal encouraged the
public, municipalities and the potential bidders to submit written comments on how they feel
the process should work, including the timing of the process, how the Board could best
receive proposals, and how to protect the public while still getting the best proposal.
Member Higginbottom stated that he joined the Board approximately a year ago and that
much of the discussion revolved around Emerald. Member Higginbottom echoed the
Chairman’s and Member Rogal’s comments. Member Higginbottom commended the
Chairman on the leadership that he has displayed throughout the entire Emerald process.
Member Higginbottom stated that as a new member to the Board trying to understand some
of the rationale behind the original decisions, Member Higginbottom needed reference
points, and Chairman Jones was able to give Member Higginbottom, as well as the other new
Board members, reference points. Member Higginbottom stated that Chairman Jones also
made Staff available to the Board members to help the Board in arriving at conclusions.
Member Higginbottom stated that the one thing that was consistent throughout Chairman
Jones’ discussion was that he wanted to protect the people of the State of Illinois and he also
wanted to make sure that the integrity of gaming in the State of Illinois was protected.
Member Barry echoed Chairman Jones’ comments. Member Barry stated that he has learned
a lot in the last few months and certainly intends to see to it that the process is open and fair.
Member Barry stated that he believes that it is time to move the Emerald matter along.
Member Clark stated that as the newest member of the Board, she has been very pleased with
the amount of work and dedication of Staff and the Board. Member Clark stated that she has
been impressed by how seriously Staff takes their role in this regard. Member Clark thanked
the Staff and the Board for providing her with the information needed to begin to get up to
speed on all of the issues that surround Emerald and other issues that the Board deals with on
a regular basis. Member Clark stated that she does not have enough information to make an
informed decision about whether the proposal or Offer Term Sheet is the one that should be

9

 in place. Member Clark stated that because of her lack of information, she would abstain
from voting with respect to the proposed Emerald settlement.
Member Higginbottom moved that the Board direct its counsel to prepare for
submission to and final consideration by the Board at a future meeting a Settlement
Agreement between Emerald Casino, Inc. and the Board, incorporating therein
Emerald’s Offer Term Sheet. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Member Clark abstained.
Member Rogal moved to adjourn. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. The Board adjourned at 4:50 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

10

 