Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
May 24, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on May 23,
2018 in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, Michael Hansen and Steve Dolins. Five members of the Board being
present, a quorum was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Legal Counsel Daniel Gerber, Legal Counsel Jared Smith, Acting Legal Counsel Richard
Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit and
Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Office Manager and Acting
Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Deputy
Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Operations Office Lt. William Doster. Legislative
Liaison Caleb Melamed attended via telephone from the Illinois Gaming Board’s Springfield
office. No one from the public was present to attend at that time.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 11:04 AM.
At 11:07 AM, Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter,
the Board discussed matters referenced in the closed session agenda.
At 11:42 A.M., Member Dolins moved to adjourn the closed session and return to open session.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 11:42 A.M., Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open meeting to Thursday, May 24,
2018 at 9:30 AM. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board reconvened in Open Session on Thursday, May 24, 2018 at 9:10 AM in the Assembly
Hall of the James R. Thompson Center at 100 W. Randolph, Chicago, Illinois. Physically present
were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Steve Dolins and Michael Hansen. Members
Hector Alejandre and Dee Robinson participated via telephone due to employment reasons.

 APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Scrivener’s Error: Member Hansen moved that the Board approve the open session minutes
from its Regular Meeting of April 13, 2018 and the amended minutes of the August 23, 2017
closed session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed 4:0. Member Dolins
abstained from voting since he was not present at the April meeting. However, the April Regular
Board Meeting took place on April 12, 2018 and not April 13, 2018. Therefore, the April
meeting minutes are from April 12, 2018.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
•

Kathy Gilroy – Discussed Executive Order 15-09 concerning revolving door issues.

OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration
Representatives from Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino appeared and
requested initial consideration of the Board to allow a Transfer of Ownership Interest to
Eldorado Resorts, Inc. No Board action was taken.
Representatives from Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Hotel & Casino
appeared and requested initial consideration of the Board, and a waiver of the two meeting rule,
to allow a Transfer of Ownership Interest in Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership. The
Board denied the request for a waiver of the two meeting rule. No Board action was taken.
Final Consideration:
•

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – Boyd Gaming
Corporation – Request for Final Consideration of Refinancing Transaction

Member Hansen moved that the Board approve the request submitted by Boyd Gaming
Corporation to enter into a $550 million financing transaction, in the form of an Incremental
Term Loan B, issuance of Senior Notes, or a combination of debt instruments, to either refinance
existing Senior Notes or to initiate future property acquisition(s), including subsidiary guarantee
of debt by Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino, subject to the final
documentation being provided to the Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and subject to
revocation of this approval if the Administrator determines that the terms and conditions are not
materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Dolins second the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel
and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino – Herman Campuzano – Level 1

2

 Member Hansen moved that the Board approve Herman Campuzano as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Senior Internal Audit Manager for Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern
Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

International Hole-In-One Association – Initial Supplier License

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Supplier License to International Hole-In-One
Association for a period of one year, expiring in May 2019, and find the following individuals
and entities suitable as Key Persons:
•
•
•
•

Mark Gilmartin
Kevin Hall
HIOI, Inc., and
M&M Properties, LLC

Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

House Advantage, LLC – Supplier License Renewal

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of House Advantage, LLC
for a period of four years, expiring in May 2022, and find the following individual suitable as a
Key Person:


Jon C. Wolfe

Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

VICI Properties 1 LLC – Supplier License Renewal

Member Hansen moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of VICI Properties 1 LLC
for a period of four years, expiring in May 2022, and find the following individuals and entities
suitable as a Key Persons:





VICI Properties Inc.
VICI Properties LP
Edward B. Pitoniak
John W.R. Payne

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Konami Gaming, Inc. – Thomas A. Jingoli – Key Person

3

 Member Dolins moved that the Board find Thomas A. Jingoli suitable as a Key Person in his
position as Chief Commercial Officer for Konami Gaming, Inc. Member Hansen seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Dolins moved that the Board find suitable and approve 80 Level 2 occupational licenses
and 154 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the administrator to issue Notes of Denial
to:
 Demeco Dontez Richardson
 Coultzen Claudio
 Timothy B. Druse
Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Requests for Hearing and Request to Reapply
Member Dolins moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Sheila K. Day.
Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Hansen moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Shannon M.
Becker. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Hansen moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Tracie R.
Williams. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Hansen moved that the Board revoke the Occupational Licenses of Peter C. Klimah
and Robert Earl Jackson for misconduct while employed at a licensed casino for which they
were terminated, said actions to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints,
unless Answers to the Complaints are properly filed within that time frame. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints against Sally K. Cronin,
Joshua Paul Davis and Brittany Ann Castellano fining each licensee $500 for failing to inform
the Board of their misdemeanor arrests; this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service
of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame.
Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
ADJOURN
At 9:45 AM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.

4

 Respectfully submitted,
Richard Harlovic
Acting Legal Counsel

