CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, October 9 2018
Members Present
Committee Members:

Facilitator:
CTA Staff
Excused Absence:
Absent:

Pierre Bance
Angela Davis (Chairman)
Melissa Fuller (Vice Chairman)
Michele Lee
Christina McGleam
Donna K. Shaw
Amber Smock
Allen West
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs
Michael Connelly, Chief Planning Officer
Bridget Hayman
Susan Riley
Allen West

Chairman Angela Davis called the meeting to order at 1:32 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves.
Announcements
 Vice Chairman Fuller informed the Committee of the following announcements:

4 members will rotate off the Committee having fulfilled their 2, 2-year membership
terms: Pierre Bance, Christina McGleam, Suzen Riley and Allen West. All were thanked
for their service.

There is a movie currently at the Music Box Theater in Chicago entitled, Pick of the
Litter which is a documentary on how guide dogs for the blind are trained.

The National Federation of the Blind (NFB) will hold their annual convention from Oct.
26 – 28, 2018 at the Sheridan Chicago O’Hare. Tickets are $5 until October 12 then
$20. See their Website for details.
Approval of Minutes
 The Meeting Minutes for the July 9, 2018 meeting were sent to all Committee members in
advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 As there were no corrections to the July 9, 2018 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes as
presented, Chairman Davis asked for a motion to approve the minutes as submitted.
 Vice Chairman Fuller moved and Ms. McGleam seconded the motion.
 Everyone voted to approve the Minutes as written.
Public Comment
 Chairman Davis again reminded all present regarding the new procedures for Public
Comment; that they would take place in the beginning of the meeting and that people should
sign up in advance (there is a form) and after those individuals have finished, other individuals
who did not pre-registered may speak as time permits.
1

 






Vice Chairman Fuller called on the Public Comment speakers in the order they signed up.
Miguel Camacho brought up 2 concerns: The first is that he received no assistance with
adding fare value to his Ventra Card at a rail station. And the second is that he has had
problems with Bus Operators who do not know how to secure his Power Chair using the straps
provided on the bus. Ms. Jeannie Alexander, General Manager of Rail Customer Service who
is in charge of all the Customer Service Assistants (CSAs) stated that CSAs should be
providing the requested assistance. Ms. Patricia Thomas-Miller, Vice President of Bus
Operations will provide follow-up with appropriate staff regarding the securing of his wheelchair
on a bus.
Scott Figved is concerned that the elderly and people with disabilities who have medical
conditions should have some additional identification that lets people know about their
medications and conditions. He thinks CTA can provide this through a product called MediPal.
This is something that the CTA will not provide or sell as it is related to healthcare which is not
the focus of this transit organization.
Garland Armstrong is concerned about the bus islands at the Cumberland and Jefferson Park
Stations as wheelchair users cannot get on the busses in the same place as other passengers.
He wants all the bus islands to be accessible to everyone. Work at the Jefferson Park Bus
Terminal has begun with the goal of making all bus islands accessible.

Bus Safety & Related Discussion
 Individuals available to present information and answer questions included: from the CTA –
Ron Ester, Deputy Chief Safety, Security & Control Center, Mike Kozlar, Security Specialist,
Patricia Thomas-Miller, Vice President Bus Operations and from the Chicago Police
Department, Sargent Peter McGlinn.
 Mr. Kozlar presented a PowerPoint which highlighted and explained how the CTA works to
keep customers safe. He stated that the Investigation Unit is located at CTA Headquarters and
that there is a 24 hour response to any non-emergency yet safety related concerns involving
the CTA. CTA’s Facility Hotline number is 312-681-2911, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Customers can
also write to ctasecurityservices@transitchicago.com. People should call 911 for any
immediate emergency situations.
 Mr. Kozlar also explained that the department also looks at facility safety and security. “When
we think of facility safetyand security, we're lookingat the physicalsecuritystructures.So, in other words,
lights, locks, keys, doors, anything that
would make that environment safer and secure
for everyone,
passengers and employees
alike. Thefacilitationof security analysis is ongoing
in terms of risk assessments,of
bus garages,rail yards, rail vehicles and bus
vehicles. Asmentioned with investigations, we're
liaisonedwith
law enforcement.We'll followup withinterviews and conduct video
investigations,see if there's bus video
pertainingto anincident and we'll see what
is onthe videoand how that matchesup with what was reported,
if
there is acrime or anincidentor allegation,and that willbe up toand includingany testimony thatwe may
providein court.”
 Ms. Smock wants to be sure that staff are able to answer video relay calls from people who are
Deaf and/or communicate appropriately with individuals who may have speech impairments.
Mr. Ester said that this is an area that should be worked on so that all staff can effectively
handle these types of safety calls.
 Ms. Lee asked about crime prevention.
 Mr. Ester explained how the CTA works with the Chicago Police Department (CPD), as well as
the K-9 (dog) Units regarding crime prevention and just general safety issues.

2

 




















Sargent McGlinn of the CPD explained that there are specific officers assigned to the CTA and
that there are weekly meetings with the CTA related to crimes, investigations, etc. There are
also plain clothes officers at various “hot” locations.
It was also explained that CPD can hire off-duty police officers to patrol rail and bus systems.
Mr. Ester went on to explain that there are consistent rail car and station walk-throughs, as well
as on buses and the K-9 Unit, and the CPD can be called whenever necessary.
The presenters also explained that customers must be aware of their surroundings and safe
guard their valuables such as cell phones, purses, wallets, etc. they talked about the fact that
to have crime happen, there must be the desire (of the criminal), the criminal’s ability to commit
the crime and the opportunity for that crime to be committed.
Types of crimes discussed included: assult, battery, bomb threat, disturbance in progress,
graffiti, pick pocket, theft of service/fare evasion, robbery and unlawful use of a weapon
(UUW).
When reporting a crime it is important to provide as much information as possible such as:
day/date, time, specific location such as mezzanine, platform and include direction of travel –
also rail car or bus number, description of the offender – head to toe – including clothing color
and if any object was carried, etc.
The general rules of conduct were also presented. Highlights include that a valid fare is
required for each ride. There is also NO – soliciting, littering or creating unsanitary conditions,
lying down or sleeping, vandalism, skate-boarding or bike riding, or smoking.
A couple of very brief videos were shown of how criminals can pick a pocket or purse on either
a train car or in a bus.
Mr. Kozlar explained that bulletins are made up for staff including images of persons of interest
taken from videos so staff can be on the lookout for offenders.
Mr. Bance asked about pest control (rodents) on trains, in stations, etc., to which Mr. Ester
replied that CTA does have contracts to deal with such issues.
Ms. Isaacs asked if there are cameras on every bus and train to which Mr. Ester confirmed
that, “Every revenue bus or train, yes. So every train that customers get on, every bus that a
customer gets on has cameras, yes.”
Mr. Bance stated that he has sometimes smelled marijuana on a bus or train car and asked
why, if there are cameras on the vehicles, then why would that be? Mr. Ester explained that
the cameras are not a live feed but if something is reported, soon after the incident, a video
can be pulled.
Vice Chairman Fuller asked who polices the suburban stations, especially the Rosemont
Station? Mr. Ester responded that, “It's eachof those municipalities,each of those suburbs, they police
those areas. SoChicago police has jurisdiction within
the Chicago citylimits. And oncewe get outsidethe city
limits,we have Forest Park, OakPark and those municipalities, they actually
police our areas.” The
Rosemont Police and/or Fire Department would respond to issues at that location.
Ms. Shaw is concerned about people who are sitting at the platform, especially at 87th Street
and then can just get on a train and walk through unlocked doors that connect each train car to
the next car. She thinks this is dangerous and does not feel safe because people can just walk
through. Mr. Ester said he would need to check out this type of situation.
Ms. Smock complimented the presentation but also wanted the presenters to explain what
happens to people who may need some kind of help, perhaps medical assistance due to a
disability, if they are acting out in such a way as to need assistance but not intending to commit
a crime. Mr. Ester responded,So
“ wehave a numberof trainings that have been administered…
And we also
have Thresholds, andI can't think ofthe other group off the top
of myhead that honor our services for those that
may be –those that may have mental illness
or something of
that nature, whereas you
indicatedincarceration
3

 






shouldn'tbe the first choiceto bemade on those individuals. Sargent McGlinn added, “On
lot of
a those
situationswhere the police are called
in where people think it'sa crime initially, we'll come
and make a decision
sometimes, yes, theydo needjust to betaken to ahospitalor home, andwe make that decisionon scene.
Most of the time itdoesn't endup in anarrest situation,they are takento amental health facility
or evenhome at
times.”
Both Chairman Davis and Ms. Lee are interested in the CTA investigating some additional
types of technologies, such as a text message or call in number whereby an individual who is
riding on a bus or especially in a train car can report an incident happening at that time. They
explained that sometimes people do not feel comfortable pressing the emergency intercom
button on the train car either because they can’t reach it easily or can’t see exactly where it is.
They do not want to call attention to themselves but do want some kind of action taken due to
the situation.
Mr. Ester stated, “… Andto be honestwith you,I guess two weeks ago,I was at a conferencein which that type
of technologywas introduced. So we
will be lookingin the mix inthe coming monthsas to if we
can –if it's
actually compatible with our
system. So wehave to look at that, butit issomethingI cansay thatwe are
definitely driventoward,becauseas you mentioned,a lot of people,people text all the time, text
to anumberto
donate, textto anumberto do anumberof differentthings. So just
I needto really see exactly how compatible
the systemI saw is withour current system and
if itcan be done, but it issomething that has been
on the tableat
least for the past two
or three weeks.” He explained that various technology can be evaluated for both train
cars and buses as appropriate.
Chairman Davis asked if there were undercover security personnel on all trains to which Mr. Ester
stated, “…Well, I can definitelysay there's not, other than the operator,
there'snot necessarily anyone else
on
every train.”
In response to additional concerns regarding CTA vehicles that go into the suburbs raised by Vice
Chairman Fuller, Mr. Ester explained that there are strong relationships between the CTA and those
suburban law enforcement agencies. He explained that, “…
have
wea really good working relationship
with the suburban areasas well.They may notbe asvisible, but they'rethere. They'rethere.They're there
and definitelysupporting.”

General Construction Report Update
 Kevin Loughnane, General Manager, Capital Construction presented project updates.
 95th Street Station: “…the south terminal has been open since
April.We're currently ongoing with the
reconstruction of
the northterminal. I amhappy to reportthat two weeks agowe began the installation
of one
of the escalators, the one that will
be coming from the pedestrian bridges,… (so that)
people can walk over 95th
Streetfrom the south terminalon our bridge and thentake the escalator downto the platform.That is escalator
No. 4. Escalator No.5 was installedlast weekend, and the full installation
of the (escalator)steps and all the
motorsis ongoing.Over the last two weekswe also have installedthe elevator shafts for both elevators that will
be installedin the north terminal and
our contractors are currently working
on fabricating and installing the full
elevators. Wehave projections that all
of the escalatorsand elevators willbe upand runningby the end of
December.”
 Illinois Medical District: The project is in “close-out” with the completion of “punch-list” items.
The station has 3 accessible entrances – Paulina and Damen have ramps and there is a new
elevator at the Ogden entrance.
 Quincy Station in the Loop: There is still a couple of more months work to be completed
including a final inspection of the elevators by the City. There are 2 elevators – one on each
side of the street which will take customers directly to the Platform level.

4

 






Garfield Green Line Station: At that station on the south “…there'san extensive rehabof the
elevatorsand replacementof one of the escalators. That is
currently ongoing, and all
of that workis projected
to bedone in Januaryof 2019.”
Chairman Davis asked if it was known when stations involved in the RPM project will be shut
down to which Mr. Loughnane replied that many community meetings for the public will be held
prior to any shut down. He went on to explain that the contract for the project has yet to be
awarded and thought this might happen in January or February of 2019.
Vice Chairman Fuller asked about additional markings on “L” station staircases to better define
them, especially for people with visual impairments. “… when there are no lines or dividers
there to let us know step by step, it looks like one long sliding board.” Mr. Loughnane noted
that, “… We tried to dosome thingssimilarto the tactile edges that
we have onthe platforms, there are some
stationswhere weput thoseon the staircases, mostlyon thelandingsso you get that differentiation.I couldn't
say right nowI know for surethat anyoneis specifically lookingat doing each stair. …We should definitely-shouldbe investigating.”
Both Vice Chairman Fuller and Ms. Isaacs stated that even using a bright color paint on the
edges of the stairs would be helpful.

Bus Public Service Announcement – LED Display
 Mike Haynes, Manager, Transit System Support Group (Bus AVAS System) presented a
demonstration of the expanded Public Service Announcement – LED Display that will be on
buses.
 Mr. Haynes explained that, “What we have hereis a mockupsampleof one of our buses. It's equipment
on a bus.What was talked about was how
to getattention from those who might not
be able to hear, that we're
about to play an announcementthat is important. So
for any manuallyplayedannouncement,it will now flash
back andforth before playing themessage.So, for example,if anoperator wereto play oneof themessages
that is alittle bit moreof a manualmessage, not one that plays every
15 minutesas kind of areminder, suchas
bus willexpress,see here it's flashing
to gain yourattention. Italso now holds the message
on the screen
longerso that it says, bus will express
on thescreen, whichis asummaryof the announcement.You can't fit
everything that was said
on thescreen, but that word bus will express
is nowheld on the screenon the red LED
sign at thefront of the bus fora longer periodof time. Sosimilarto what we are now seeing, theidea came out
of the 5000 seriesrailcars.Those of you who ride the 5000 series railcars will
be familiar that when the train
operator playsan announcement,it flashes the LED signso that -- tokind of get your attentionto look atit, it's
about to scroll textof information.” Mr. Haynes explained that this new software/method may be up
and running in early 2019.
 Ms. Isaacs asked if Bus Operators have been trained on this system. Mr. Haynes explained
that all Bus Operators do receive training on the Clever Devices System (which is what these
messages are a part of). They will receive training about the extended flashing but the
announcements have always been a part of the system.
 Ms Isaacs had a follow-up question which was also related to a concern expressed by Ms.“…
Shaw:
So Ithink
what I am understanding
from what you are saying
is the busdriverscurrently right now have the ability ifto,
the bus is going to have a different endingpoint,they right now have the ability
to play that message aheadof
time?” Mr. Haynes replied that, “To
play an announcementmessage that the busis going to change
directionor isgoing to go express.And then the ideais that the customer who has
a question about that can
ask thatof the operator.”
 Ms. Shaw raised the issue that when “L” trains are expressing there is no way that a person
who does not hear can determine what specific stops are going to be skipped. This is an issue
yet to be resolved. Although there may be an audio announcement by the Rail Operator letting
5

 customers know where the train is expressing to, this does not meet the needs of anyone who
cannot hear.
Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance
for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Mr. Andre Cozzo, Senior Manager, Escalator/Elevator Maintenance was available to answer
any questions and presented information regarding upcoming maintenance work..
 For the 3rd quarter of 2018 vs. Q-3 in 2017, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:

July 2018 = 96.4% vs. July 2017 = 99.5% (-3.1%)

August 2018 = 98.6% vs. August 2017 = 99.0% (-0.4%)

September 2018 = 96.2% vs. September 2017 = 98.6% (-2.4%)

Mr. Kissane also explained that the elevator door refurbishing project should wrap up by
the end of this year. This should improve efficiencies due to the newly redone or
replacement of doors.
 For the 3rd quarter of 2018 vs. Q-3 in 2017, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:

July 2018 = 95.9% vs. July 2017 = 96.8% (-1.1%)

August 2018 = 97.0% vs. August 2017 = 97.4% (-0.4%)

September 2018 = 97.4% vs. September 2017 = 92.5% (4.9%)
 Mr. Kissane added information on the following Escalator Reconditioning Projects.

Chicago – Red Line (Up Escalator), anticipated start date – October 26, 2018.

Forest Park – Blue Line (Up Escalator), anticipated start date – December 10, 2018.

Irving Park – Blue Line – December 15, 2018.

Grand – Blue Line – Spring 2019.
 Ms. Shaw asked about the 87th Street Station and why there is no escalator on the west side of
the station. As this is a Metra Station, the CTA cannot speak to this issue.
Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for review in
addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Kate Kennelly, Manager of Customer Feedback Programs presented the 2018 3rd quarter
statistics regarding disability-related Customer Service complaints.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-3 2018 (July, August & September
2018), = 5,457 of which 286 were ADA related complaints.

Qs1-3 2018 complaints = 676 which was an improvement compared to 2017 Qs1-3
cumulative total ADA complaints = 747.

Q-3, 2018 Bus Related Complaints: July = 83, August = 67 and September = 79,
totaling 229.

Q-3, 2018 Rail Related Complaints: July = 16, August = 26 and September = 15,
totaling 57. (229 + 57 = 286 bus & rail complaints).

During the 3 month 2018 Q-3 period, there were a total of 286 ADA Compliance
Complaints which include things such as rude operator, pass up, ramp issues, stroller
issues, refusing boarding with a legitimate service animal, failure to kneel bus, AVAS
(announcements), priority seating, gap filler, elevator and escalator issues and touching
passenger, service animal or personal equipment (if not requested to assist).

Below is a breakdown of ADA Compliance Issue complaint categories for Q-3 2018 vs
Q-3 2017:
6

 









Total disability-related complaints for Q-3 2018 = 286 complaints vs. 215 in 2017. Of
that total:

ADA Compliance** = 85 in 2018 vs. 70 in 2017

Rude Operator totaled 78 complaints in 2018 vs. 50 in 2017.

Pass up totaled 49 complaints in 2018 vs. 34 in 2017.

Lift/Ramps totaled 17 complaints in 2018 vs. 8 in 2017.

Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS (automated stop announcements) totaled 0
complaints in 2018 vs 8 in 2017.

Priority Seating issues totaled 7 complaints in 2018 vs. 9 in 2017.

Stroller issues totaled 13 complaints in 2018 vs. 7 in 2017.

Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 14 complaints in 2018 vs. 8 in 2017.

Refusal to allow service animal on board totaled 6 complaints in 2018 vs. 10 in
2017

Failure/Refusal to Deploy Gap Filler totaled 1 complaints in 2018 vs. 3 in 2017

Elevator malfunction complaints totaled 5 in 2018 vs. 4 in 2017

Escalator malfunction complaints totaled 9 in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017

Failure to announce stops complaints totaled 2 in 2018 vs. 1 in 2017

Accessible Service complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 1 in 2017

Touching passenger/equipment/service animal complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 0
in 2017

NOTE: **ADA Compliance category includes complaints such as employee
failing to assist customers with disabilities or help with securing of wheelchairs,
not complying with ADA rules and fare discrepancies involving passengers
identifying as having a disability.
Ms. Isaacs asked for clarification regarding CTA’s stroller policy. Facilitator Serpe again
explained CTA’s policy which enables a person with an open stroller to board if the bus is not
crowded. However, if the Priority Seating area is needed for a customer who has a disability,
the Bus Operator should request that the stroller user folds the stroller and vacates the seat for
the customer with the disability. The policy states that the CTA can request for someone to
move but cannot require or make them move. Ms. Kennelly also stated that strollers cannot
block bus aisles.
Ms. Smock pointed out that sometimes Bus Operators do not do what they are supposed to do
in terms of asking someone with a stroller to fold it up and this affects people who use
wheelchairs who then must wait for the next bus and may then be late for work or wherever
they are going. Ms. Isaacs added that some buses are often very crowded not only during rush
hour but because a particular route is generally always crowded and the Bus Operator doesn’t
ask people to move. Facilitator Serpe reminded everyone that these types of situations should
be reported and that Ms. Kennelly and the Customer Service Department do make sure that
the appropriate department/garage is made aware of the problem so that appropriate action
can be taken. She also explained that there are people such as “secret shoppers” who
especially ride the buses and do report policy violations to the garages.
Ms. Lee asked about what happens to the complaint data that is collected?
Ms. Kennelly explained, “So weask the informationbe collected and disseminated
to each department.
We followup with reports and thenwe followup and report the information
to the executivesas well, letting
them know where we'retrending.
Ms. Lee went on to ask, “Have you been noticing the
trend going lower with regards
to operatorrudeness,
you see the data but the
trend?
7

 



Ms. Kennelly responded, “Sothe complaintswere higher last quarter than they were the
quarterbefore,
which follows the trend that
came across the board,we were receivingmore feedback across the board for the
last couple of months. seems
It
to be aseasonaltrend. Wehave noticedit startedto get a littlebit slowerin
October,so I amstartingto see it kind of goback to what we typically seein thecoldermonths. Soright now
we're seeingsome lower numbers, but that's what
I see rightnow.”
Ms. Lee then asked Ms. Kennelly what are the main ways the Customer Service Department
collects data. Ms. Kennelly said that generally through the 311 city system, phone calls and emails to the department. Ms. Lee asked if it was possible to somehow use the Ventra App to
report issues to which Ms. Kennelly said that this wasn’t yet an option.

Facilitator’s Report
 Amy Serpe, Manager ADA Compliance Programs presented updates from the ADA Unit.
 Events: CTA’s ADA Unit participated in a variety of disability-related events and group
meetings during Q-3 2018.

On July 11, 2018, the ADA Managers of both CTA and Metra met with a group of
students who are blind/visually impaired and not familiar with the city to explain both
agency’s accessibility features. services and policies, as well as how best to utilize
public transit options.

CTA hosted an information table and provided an on-site instruction bus at the Mayor’s
Office for People with Disabilities (MOPD’s) AccessChicago event on July 19, 2018.

CTA participated in the July 21, 2018 Disability Pride Parade having its mini-bus in the
parade, as well as an information resource table at the Daley Plaza after-parade event
along with an instruction bus, allowing participants to practice securing their wheelchair
and learning about other CTA policies, procedures and accessibility features.

On July 25, 2018, CTA’s ADA and Human Resources Managers talked with students
from MOPD’s One Summer Chicago Intern program regarding CTA accessible services,
as well as careers in transportation.

CTA’s ADA Manager and a Bus Instructor provided an instruction bus, as well as on-site
discussion and informational materials for students of Misericordia in conjunction with
the Hop on the Bus travel program through JJ’s List and Pace organizations.

On August 30, 2018, the ADA Manager attended a discussion event for the MOPD &
Chicago Public Schools Office of Diverse Learners Support Services (CPS-ODLSS)
Youth Employment Services Program hosted by the Northern Trust Bank.

CTA’s ADA Manager presented at an American Council for the Blind meeting on
September 8, 2018.

On September 19, 2018, the ADA Manager and a Bus Instructor provided an on-site
bus at the Schwab Rehabilitation Hospital and Care Network (SRH&CN) to acquaint
newly disabled individuals with CTA’s accessibility services, policies and procedures, as
well as direct instruction as to how to secure a wheelchair, etc.

On October 4, 2018, the ADA Manager hosted an information resource table at the Deaf
Awareness Day event sponsored by Columbia College.
 On July 12, 2018, CTA announced the completion of its All Station’s Accessibility Program
(ASAP) report which presents a plan on how it will make all of its remaining non-accessible rail
stations accessible.
 The ADA Manager attends a variety of significant meetings related to disability and/or
transportation throughout the year.

Third quarter meetings included:
8

 











Pace/Paratransit ADA Advisory Committee meetings on July 23 and September
24, 2018.

One of 2 bi-annual ADA Coordinating Committee meeting which includes the
President’s/CEO’s, Board Members and ADA Managers from RTA, Pace, Metra
and CTA, on July 30, 2018.

The August 13, 2018 ADA Working Group meeting for ADA Managers/Directors
from RTA, Metra, Pace/Paratransit and CTA.

The ADA Manager is a team member for ongoing CTA Standard Operating
Procedure (SOP) and Accommodation Review Committee (ARC) employee
focused meetings.
Involvement and site visits with projects at Midway (August 14 and 15), the Illinois Medical
District (IMD) Station walkthrough (August 17), Belmont & Jefferson Park (September 7) and
participation as an Information Specialist providing direction/relocation of bus routes during
construction at Jefferson Park (October 1 and 2).
Facilitator Serpe reminded everyone that the ADA Advisory Committee Public Comment Form
is posted on the CTA Website, transitchicago.com.
The ADA Manager provided ADA and Disability Awareness Trainings on several dates for
Supervisors, Managers, Bus Operators, CSAs & Control Center Bus and Rail personnel.
These are ongoing throughout the year.
As requested by the ADA Advisory Committee, a second Familiarization Training was held at
the new Washington/Wabash Station on Thursday, October 18, from 4-6 p.m. While most
individuals attending were blind or visually impaired, there was one individual who was Deaf
and had questions about the station. All participants were accommodated.
The CTA will be sending out application forms to replace the 4 Committee members that have
completed their two, 2-year terms, as well as the one member who resigned. Therefore, 5
more members will be selected to join the Committee in 2019. As a reminder, CTA’s Board
Chairman appoints all members. Information including applications will be sent to everyone on
the current ADA mailing list.
Facilitator Serpe announced the 2019 ADA Advisory Committee meeting dates which fall on
the second Monday of January, April, July and October. (If the Monday is a holiday then the
meeting is held on Tuesday such as in October).

Monday, Jan. 14

Monday, April 15

Monday, July 15

Tuesday, Oct. 15

Old Business
 No old business.
New Business
 The topic of training will be highlighted at the January 2019 meeting.
 People also want an overview related to how the Ventra app functions. Can you get online
alerts when your balance is going down and other issues? Depending on time constraints in
January, this subject may be covered at the April 2019 meeting.
 Chairman Davis will be reaching out to members regarding:

If anyone has anything they want to be included in the ADA Advisory Committee Annual
Report for 2018?

Is there any interest among members to establish any type of sub-committees?
9

 

What do members hope to achieve in 2019?

Adjournment
 Chairman Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday, January 14, 2019 from 1:30 – 4 p.m.
 Chairman Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Fuller moved to adjourn the meeting and
Ms. Isaac seconded the motion. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting adjourned at 4:07 p.m.

ajs 1-9-19 Final for Committee

10

 