MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 26, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on September 26, 2005.
The Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160
N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, and Eugene Winkler. Member James Sullivan was present
telephonically.
The meeting convened at 9:50 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 11:35 P.M. Member Sullivan was present
telephonically.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has been contemplating the issues surrounding Penn
National’s request to purchase Argosy for a while now. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board
has had many discussions regarding the matter, as well as individual discussions with Penn
National.
Penn National – Request to Purchase Argosy Gaming – Key Person – Kevin Desanctis,
President and Chief Operating Officer of Penn National, was present on behalf of Penn
National. Mr. Desanctis inquired if there is any additional information that Penn National
could provide to the Board that would change their mind from an undo economic
concentration standpoint.
Chairman Jaffe stated that undo economic concentration is not the sole issue before the
Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has to examine this issue from all angles.
Chairman Jaffe stated that there are twelve criteria and the Board has been discussing all of

 those. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board does not want to give anyone the impression that
the only issue is undo economic concentration.
Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National is hoping to reach a final determination today. Mr.
Desanctis stated that Staff advised Penn National that the Board was in a position where they
may be prepared, subject to some questions, to reach a final position with certain conditions.
Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National is prepared to simplify the matter in that Penn
National is prepared to divest itself of both Alton Belle Casino and Empress Casino in Joliet
in the attempt to make it easier for the Board’s consideration. Mr. Desanctis stated that if
Penn National were to divest itself of the boats, it would like an 18-24 month time frame to
get a definitive sales agreement. Mr. Desanctis stated that the reason for the 18-24 month
time frame is because if it is inclusive of regulatory approvals, Penn National is confident
that people who are interested in purchasing the boats could come from outside of the state
and that would require a fairly extensive licensing process, which could range up to 12
months. Mr. Desanctis stated that if Penn National were to go into a 15 or 18 month
inclusive process, that would give Penn National three to six months in which to market and
sale the assets, and would create undo pressure on the company.
Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National would be totally supportive in all of the diversity
requirements. Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National would agree not to expand its Board
of Directors in connection with this matter.
Mr. Desanctis stated that Penn National is hoping that if there were certain paper work or
details that needed to be worked out, the Board would delegate that to Staff in order to move
the process along.
Cid Froelic, Attorney, discussed the waiver of the right to appeal. Cid Froelic stated that
Penn National has informed Staff that they would like to retain its right to appeal during the
period of time that Penn National is allowed to try to sell the boats. Cid Froelic stated that the
sole reason for Penn National wanting to retain its right to appeal is because if the 10th
license comes on board, or the Chicago license should resurrect itself, it could change the
Board’s position on undo economic concentration, and Penn National would hate to be in a
position where they are in the process of selling both boats and would not be able to come
before the Board and request the Board to reconsider.
Chairman Jaffe stated as a point of clarification that it was not the Board’s position that Penn
National had to sell two of its boats.
Mr. Froelich stated that Penn National was hopeful that if it sells both boats, they are back to
where they were before with just Hollywood casino and there would not be an issue
regarding undo economic concentration. Mr. Froelich stated that Penn National is trying to
make this issue as simple as possible to expedite matters.

2

 Member Gardner inquired about Penn National’s request to retain its right to appeal.
Member Gardner asked what was it that Penn National would appeal. Mr. Froelich stated
that Penn National would like to retain that right because if the 10th license is auctioned and
the Board’s policy changes and one of the other boats says that they want to bid for that 10th
license, it would mean that they would have two licenses in Chicago. Mr. Froelic stated that
Penn National does not want to be “left out in the cold” and would want the same
opportunities as the other boats.
Member Winkler asked, for a point if clarification, in order to expedite the process would
Penn National be willing to forego the right to appeal. Mr. Froelic stated that Penn National
would be willing to forego that right.
Member Gardner stated that Penn National would always have the right to come before the
Board to request reconsideration.
Member Winkler stated that the Board would always be open for reconsideration.
Chairman Jaffe stated that reconsideration is always something that the Board is open to.
Chairman Jaffe stated that this is not a Penn National issue. Chairman Jaffe stated that the
Board is not saying that Penn is a bad company. Chairman Jaffe stated that the issues that
the Board has would be the same with any company that comes before the Board. Chairman
Jaffe stated that the Board has to be flexible, but also abide within the restraints that it has.
At 11:50 Member Winkler moved that the Board reconvene to Closed session. Member
Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 12:45 Member Winkler moved to reconvene to Open session. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has considered all of the elements necessary pertaining
to the merger. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has been meeting for weeks to resolve
the issue.
Chairman Jaffe stated that after hearing the Board’s concerns, Penn National did agree to
accept most of the conditions that the Board put in, and volunteered to get rid of the Empress
Joliet Casino and the Alton Belle Casino within a certain time period.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board would like for its legal staff to work with Penn National
on a final draft of the merger. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board would take action on the
final action at the September 29, 2005 Regular Board meeting.
At 12:50 P.M. Member Gardner moved that the Board reconvene to Closed session.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
3

 The Board adjourned at 2:00 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

4

 