MEETING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the November 5, 2015 Meeting of the Board
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call
Trustees Present:

Alexis Herrera, Diahann Goode, Brent Lewandowski, Patrick McFadden,
Patrick Nester, Samuel Richardson, Jr. and Lawrence Wilson

Staff Present:

Nickol R. Hackett, Executive Director & CIO; Michael Maratea, Director
of Finance and Administration; Gary LeDonne, Senior Benefit Advisor;
Brenda Deming, Director of Health Benefits; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal
Adviser; Paul Rzeszutko, Director of Annuity Benefits; Beverly
Romanini, Office Manager; Fernando Vinzons, Investment Officer; Kwesi
Quaye, Investment Analyst; Courtney Hollins, Communications Manager

Others Present:

Theron Picketts, Topeka Capital; Thomas Edstrom, AFSCME Council 31;
Audrey Wang, Attucks Asset Management; Abin Kuriakose,
Commissioner Gainer’s Office

Trustee Herrera opened the meeting for public comment and no one having requested to address the
Board, the next item of business on the Agenda was considered.
1. Review and Consideration of:
a. October 1, 2015 Board Meeting Minutes
Trustee McFadden stated that the minutes of the October 1, 2015, should be amended on
their face in regard to two motions under Item 7a, concerning the approval of certain health
benefits and to the Board’s discussion under Item 5a
about
the
preparation
of
correspondence related to the unfunded status of the Pension Fund. He referred to page 9 of
the proposed minutes when the Board considered the motion that there would be no change
to the copayment of $25 for any medical services the members received. He noted that the
vote by Trustee Herrera on the motion was not correctly recorded because the minutes
showed that she had voted both “Aye” and “Nay”. Trustee Herrera stated that she had only
voted “Nay” on the motion.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 The Board also approved a hearing aid benefit under the medical plan which would provide
for a lifetime benefit of $2,500 for each ear and that the benefit would be re-evaluated in
2016.
Trustee McFadden next referred to the motion under Item 7a providing that a member who
receives physical therapy, chiropractic service, rehabilitative therapy or acupuncture
treatment would be responsible for a $15 copayment. He clarified that the $15 copayment
would not apply if those services were received from a medical doctor.
Trustee McFadden then stated that the Board’s discussion under Item 5a included a direction
to Fund staff to prepare a draft communication to all stakeholders regarding the funded
status of the Pension Fund. Trustee Goode noted that it was her suggestion at the meeting
that the matter should go before the Board’s Legislative Committee.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Lewandowski that the minutes of
the October 1, 2015 Board, as amended, be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2. Review and Consideration of:
a. Bills, Payroll Records
The Fund’s monthly bills and payroll records were presented for the Board’s approval. It was
moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Lewandowski that the action taken by
the Fund’s staff in remitting payments for the presented bills and payroll records be
approved.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Herrera, Lewandowski, McFadden, Nester, Richardson, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

b. Annuities, Spouse and Child Annuities and Refunds
The Fund’s staff presented their recommendations to the Board regarding the applications for
annuities, spouse and child annuities, and refunds and confirmed that they followed the
Fund’s procedures in reviewing and processing the applications in making their
recommendations.
It was then moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode, after due
consideration of the applications presented to the Board and having received confirmation
from the staff that they followed the Fund’s procedures in reviewing and processing the
applications, that the recommendations for the presented annuities and refunds be approved.
Roll Call Vote:

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Herrera, Lewandowski, McFadden, Nester, Richardson, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

c. Ordinary and Duty Disabilities
The Fund’s staff presented their recommendations to the Board regarding the applications for
ordinary and duty disability benefits and confirmed that they followed the Fund’s procedures
in reviewing and processing the applications in making their recommendations.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Nester, after due consideration
of the disability applications presented to the Board and having received confirmation from
staff that they followed the Fund’s procedures in reviewing and processing the applications,
that the recommendations for the presented disability applications be approved.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Herrera, Lewandowski, McFadden, Nester, Richardson, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

3. Administrative Report
a. Reminder for Trustee Reimbursements for Year-End
The Executive Director reminded the Board that any reimbursements due for expenditures in
2015 should be submitted to the Finance Department before the end of the year.
b. Vendor Change – Fund Office General Ledger System
Michael Maratea, Director of Finance and Administration, presented a request to engage
TTD Enterprises for on-going support and system upgrades to the Fund’s general ledger
system. Mr. Maratea stated that the support team from the current vendor had transitioned to
TTD Enterprises and that the Fund had been satisfied with the quality of the services
received from that team. He added that TTD Enterprises would provide the needed support
for the Fund’s Microsoft Great Plains system at a lower cost than the current vendor. Trustee
McFadden inquired about the change of personnel from the legacy vendor and the service
platform of the proposed vendor.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Lewandowski that the Board
approve the Fund’s request to retain TTD Enterprises to upgrade the Microsoft Great Plains
system at a cost not to exceed $5,900 and to provide system support at an hourly rate of
$150. It is further moved that the Fund staff shall have the authority to take all action
reasonably necessary to effectuate the foregoing including the execution and delivery of
related written agreements on behalf of the Fund by the Executive Director.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Herrera, Lewandowski, McFadden, Nester, Richardson, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

c. Open Enrollment Update
Brenda Deming, Director of Health Benefits, reported on the Open Enrollment events
conducted in Orland Park on October 29th and in Chicago at the County Administration
Building on October 30th. Ms. Deming stated that the events were well attended with
estimated attendance of 465 and that the members have had positive experiences with
Unitedhealth Care (“UHC”). She noted that additional Open Enrollment sessions were
scheduled for November 6th in Lincolnwood and for November 10th on the southside of
Chicago. Trustee Lewandowski stated that he had attended the session in Orland Park. He
spoke with representatives from UHC and found that they were knowledgeable and provided
helpful responses to his inquiries. Trustee Lewandowski encouraged the other trustees to
attend the remaining Open Enrollment meetings.
4. Other Benefit Matters
a. Untimely Disability Hearing Request
This item was deferred for consideration because the staff member responsible for its
presentation was unavoidably detained and not yet in attendance at the Board meeting.
5. Election Report
a. Report of Independent Election Administrator
Paul Rzeszutko, Director of Annuity Benefits, reported on the results of the trustee election
that was conducted on October 28, 2015. Mr. Rzeszutko stated that the elections went
smoothly and that the election turnout was consistent with the Fund’s experiences in prior
years. He added that there was no need for any changes to the rules governing the election
procedures. Mr. Rzeszutko presented the reports that the Fund had received from the
Independent Election Administrator, including the Proclamations and Declarations of the
winners for each of the newly elected trustees.
It was moved by Trustee Lewandowksi and seconded by Trustee Richardson that the letter
dated September 21, 2015, regarding the Sole Candidacy for the Cook County Employee
Member Trustee position in the Election scheduled to be held on October 28, 2015, be
accepted as a true and accurate report and, consistent therewith, that Diahann Goode was the
sole candidate for the position, that she meets the requirements of the office and that she was
elected as the Cook County Employee Member Trustee.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 4

 It was also moved by Trustee Lewandowski and seconded by Trustee Richardson that the
Final Report of the Independent Election Administrator letter dated November 4, 2015, be
accepted as a true and accurate report of the results of the election held on October 28, 2015,
and consistent therewith, that Patrick J. McFadden was elected as
the
Cook
County
Annuitant Member Trustee and that Dennis White was elected as the Forest Preserve District
Employee Member Trustee.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

b. Proclamation of Election and Declaration of the Winner of the Cook County Employee,
Cook County Annuitant and Forest Preserve Employee Election held on October 28, 2015
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Richardson that the
Proclamation of Election and Declaration of the Winner of the Cook County Employee
Member Election scheduled to be held on October 28, 2015, be accepted and, consistent
therewith, that Diahann Goode be declared the winner of that election and that she be
administered and execute the Oath of Office. It is further moved that the Fund’s staff take all
action necessary to file a copy of the executed Oath of Office with the Cook County Clerk as
required by Section 9-186 of the Illinois Pension Code.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Richardson that the
Proclamation of Election and Declaration of the Winner of the Cook County Annuitant
Member Election held on October 28, 2015, be accepted and, consistent therewith, that
Patrick J. McFadden be declared the winner of that election and that he be administered and
execute the Oath of Office. It is further moved that the Fund’s staff shall take all action
necessary to file a copy of the executed Oath of Office with the Cook County Clerk
as
required by Section 9-186 of the Illinois Pension Code.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee that the Proclamation of
Election and Declaration of the Winner of the Forest Preserve District Employee Member
Election held on October 28, 2015, be accepted and, consistent therewith, that Dennis White
be declared the winner of that election and that he be administered and execute the Oath of
Office. It is further moved that the Fund’s staff shall take all action necessary to file a copy
of the executed Oath of Office with the Cook County Clerk as required by Section 9-186 of
the Illinois Pension Code.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

6. Investment Committee Report
The Executive Director & CIO reported on the investment consultant search. She stated that the
Fund had met with the representatives of Callan & Associates who would be responsible for
providing investment consulting services to the Fund. The Callan representatives had the requisite
skills and had demonstrated a renewed commitment to providing the consulting services that the
Fund required. Trustee Wilson stated that he had recently attended the Callan college conference
and shared his observations. The trustees discussed the merits of the other finalists in the search,

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 5

 including RVKuhns. It was suggested that the Fund consider retaining Callan as the investment
consultant for a shorter period than provided under the present engagement and possibly retain
RVKuhns on specific projects as they might arise. The Board will consider the matter at the meeting
in December.
7. Legislative Matters
a. Intergovernmental Agreement Ratification
The Executive Director reported that counsel for both Cook County and the County Fund had
agreed to terms for an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) that would allow a transfer of
sales tax revenue from Cook County to the County Fund in 2016. The Executive Director
stated that there might be a meeting of the County’s Finance Committee regarding the IGA
before it is presented for approval to the County Board. It was acknowledged that because
Cook County and the Forest Preserve District are separate entities with different revenue
sources, that the Forest Fund could not receive additional funding from the sales tax revenue
under the IGA. Trustee Richardson expressed his support of the IGA for the County Fund,
but also voiced his concern for the absence of a solution for the Forest Fund. Mr. Richardson
further emphasized the need to achieve a similar resolution for the Forest Fund given its
funding challenges. He stated that the Board should engage the Forest Preserve District
Board to provide similar additional revenue to the Forest Fund as will be provided to the
County Fund under the terms of the IGA.
It was moved by Trustee Nester and seconded by Trustee McFadden that the Board ratify the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) between Cook County and the County
Fund, as presented, and that the President of the Retirement Board be authorized to
execute the IGA on behalf of the County Fund, so long as and after such time that the
County Board approves a budget for its 2016 Fiscal Year that includes an appropriation
consistent with the terms of the IGA.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Herrera, Lewandowski, McFadden, Nester, Richardson, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

8. Old Business/New Business
Paul Rzeszutko, Director of Annuity Benefits, stated that the Illinois Department of Insurance had
released information regarding the 2016 Tier II COLA and 2016 Tier II annual salary cap. He
reported that there will not be a COLA adjustment in 2016 for Tier II annuitants and that the salary
cap for Tier II annuitants in 2016 will remain at $111,571.63, as it had been in 2015.
Trustee Richardson announced that he intended to retire as of December 31, 2015. The trustees and
Fund staff thanked Trustee Richardson for his service to the Board and congratulated him on his
retirement.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 6

 Gary LeDonne, Senior Benefits Advisor, then joined the meeting and the Board was able to consider
Item 4a on the Agenda that had been deferred.
4.

Other Benefit Matters
a. Untimely Disability Hearing Request
Gary LeDonne, Senior Benefits Advisor presented the Board with a request to change the
time period in which a member may request an administrative hearing after an application for
benefits is denied. Currently, a member has 30 days in which to request an administrative
hearing. Mr. LeDonne stated that allowing 60 days would be more reasonable, but that if the
member fails to make a timely request that the Board’s decision should be final. He stated
that members sometime file a second application for the same claim if they fail to request an
administrative hearing within 30 days. If the initial Board decision were to become final, the
Fund would not be required to process duplicate applications for the same claim.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Lewandowski that if a member
does not request an administrative hearing within 60 days after a request for benefits is
denied, the Board’s decision denying the benefits becomes a final decision, unless the
member can show a reasonable cause for delay.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

Mr. LeDonne next stated that Member #182820 had filed an application for Ordinary
Disability benefits that was denied by the Board on October 2, 2014, because she had failed
to provide the required medical documentation. The Fund notified that Member of the
Board’s decision. The Member filed a request for an administrative hearing on June 29,
2015, which was more than 30 days after she received notice of the Board’s decision denying
her benefits. The Member never submitted the required medical documentation.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Richardson that the request for
an administrative hearing made by Member #182820 which was made more than eight
months after her application for Ordinary Disability benefits was denied by the Board be
deemed not timely filed.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

9. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Board, it was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded
by Trustee Goode that the trustees adjourn the meeting.
The next Board meeting is scheduled for December 3, 2015, at 9:30 a.m.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 7

 