STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 5, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John
F. Brosnan, Ellen M. Strizak, Sharon B. Wells, Colleen M. Harvey, and Sylvia Rios acted as counsel to
the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 14, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the April 14, 2009 meeting. Member
Washington made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-061
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/City of Sandwich

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Strizak's
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation finding that the employees in the rank of Sergeant, employed by the City of Sandwich in
its police department, are public employees within the meaning of the Act, and direct a representation
election on the petition. Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Hade
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-06-061
Raymond Bogard/Worth Park District
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-08-104
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/City of East St. Louis
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CB-07-025
City of Freeport/Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-09-009
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Elgin
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
March 3, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CB-08-028
Peter Wagner/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
February 27, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Hade seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-RC-09-111
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Plainfield
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background, noting that Executive Director
Brosnan issued a direction of election on April 7, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel
Harvey reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the
Executive Director's order. After discussion, Member Washington moved to uphold the Executive
Director's order. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
8.
Case No. S-UC-09-009
Stephenson County Circuit Court Clerk/International Union of Automobile, Aerospace,
and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, Local No. 2261
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan dismissed the petition
in Case No. S-UC-09-009 on February 25, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios
reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive
Director's decision. After discussion, Member Coli moved to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher summarized the agency's April 28 Senate budget hearing and updated the Board as to
the status of legislation that could affect the agency. The Chair and Members of the Board discussed at
length the pending legislation. Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion
to go into executive session to discuss personnel matters. Member Washington seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member
Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Hade then made a motion to return to open session.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2

 VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 2nd day of June, 2009.

3

 