MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
November 19, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on November 19, 2002 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Ira Rogal, Tobias Barry, Violet Clark, and Gary Peterlin.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the November 19, 2002 Regular Meeting at 9:37 A.M. in
the 3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (November 19, 2002) agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:28 P.M.

 Approval of Minutes
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the following closed session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board:

• Closed Session Minutes:
-

Regular Meeting of October 9, 2002
Special Meeting of October 15, 2002
Special Meeting of October 25, 2002

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the following open session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board:

• Open Session Minutes:
-

Regular Meeting of October 9, 2002
Special Meeting of October 15, 2002
Special Meeting of October 25, 2002

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that Member Barry is resigning and that this would be
his last meeting. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Member Barry is returning to the
appellate court bench, where he served as an appellate judge for 20 years. Chairman
Higginbottom thanked Member Barry for the service that he provided while serving on the
Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he would miss all of the wisdom that Member
Barry has shared during the time that Member Barry served on the Board. Chairman
Higginbottom congratulated Member Barry on his return to the bench.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that the Board would have a special meeting on
December 3, 2002 at Harrah’s Casino, Joliet. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board
would view a special presentation by several suppliers regarding ticketing voucher
technology. Chairman Higginbottom welcomed the public to come out to Harrah’s Casino,
Joliet to view the presentation. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board and Staff are
working to implement the new equipment to the Illinois casinos. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the Board would not take any special action at the meeting. Chairman

2

 Higginbottom stated that once the Board has had an opportunity to view the technology, the
Board would consider the rulemaking to implement the technology.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that as a result of the special meeting, the next regular board
meeting would be held on December 9, 2002.
Litigation Matters
EMERALD CASINO, INC., - REQUEST TO WAIVE OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
EXTEND THE ADDITIONAL SIGNING PERSONS PROVISION PURSUANT TO
SECTION 20 (ii) OF THE AUGUST 19, 2002 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT - Chairman
Higginbottom stated that he has requested that the Staff and outside counsel for the Gaming
Board make a presentation at the December 9th public meeting to bring the public up to date
regarding the status of the Emerald litigation, the Emerald settlement, and the status of
Emerald filing for bankruptcy. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Emerald has filed for
bankruptcy and that Staff is working through that process with Emerald. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that in the Board settlement agreement with Emerald, there were
requirements for Emerald to obtain signing persons to sign off on the settlement agreement.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that Emerald has not completed that process and is requesting
to extend the additional signing persons privileges pursuant to Section 20 (ii) of the August
19, 2002 settlement agreement.
Member Rogal moved that the Board agree to Emerald Casino’s request that Deadline
Date For Additional Signing Persons in Section 20(ii) of the August 19, 2002 Settlement
Agreement be extended to December 30, 2002 and that the Board’s related option to
terminate said Agreement be extended to January 14, 2003. Member Barry seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Parenti announced that several of the Gaming Board’s investigators would be
moving from the downtown Chicago office to a renovated office in DesPlaines, Illinois.
Adminstrator Parenti stated that the move would more than likely be in the first week of
December 2002. Administrator Parenti stated that the move would free-up badly needed
office space at the downtown Chicago office. Administrator Parenti stated that the move
would help the agency become more efficient.

Board Policy Items
MIDWEST GAME SUPPLY COMPANY – NAME CHANGE OF “SINGLE HAND 21”
TO “TEXAS 21” - Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette Tamayo, stated that the Board previously
approved Single Hand 21 on May 18, 1999. Ms. Tamayo stated that the proprietors have
requested a name change under Board Rule 3000.605. Ms. Tamayo stated that it is not clear
if a name change requires the Board’s approval; however, as a precaution, Staff is asking the
3

 Board to formally approve the name change. Ms. Tamayo stated that there would be no
change to the game or how it could be sold in the State of Illinois.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board grant the request to change the name of “Single
Hand 21”, a previously approved game, to “Texas 21”. Member Barry seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – JEFFREY C. PFEIFFER, GENERAL MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Mr. Pfeiffer was present on his own behalf to request approval as a Level
One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board approve Jeffrey C. Pfeiffer as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Empress
Casino Joliet Corporation. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

CASINO QUEEN – SUSAN A. CLARK, INTERNAL AUDITOR – LEVEL ONE – Based
on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board approve Susan A. Clark as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Casino Queen Inc.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – DAVID P. RYAN, SECURITY MANAGER, - LEVEL
ONE – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of David P. Ryan to request approval
as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that
the Board approve David P. Ryan as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Elgin Riverboat
Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – MICHELLE STICKNEY – RASMUSSON, EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE – KEY PERSON – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Michelle
Stickney–Rasmusson to request approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Michelle Stickney-Rasmusson as a Key Person of Elgin Riverboat
Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

4

 CASINO ROCK ISLAND – PATRICIA A. SCHAFFNER, INTERNAL AUDITOR –
LEVEL ONE – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Patricia A. Schaffner to
request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board approve Patricia A. Schaffner as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Rock Island
Boatworks Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino Rock Island. Member Barry seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

ALTON BELLE CASINO – VINCE STONE, CASINO MANAGER – LEVEL ONE –
Richard Laudon, Director of Casino Operations, was present on behalf of Vince Stone to
request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that
the Board approve Vince Stone as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Alton Gaming
Company. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.

Supplier Licensee Items
SHUFFLE MASTER – MARK ALLAN LIPPARELLI, PRESIDENT – KEY PERSON –
Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Mark Allan Lipparelli to request approval
as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Mark Allan Lipparelli as a Key Person of Shuffle Master. Member
Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

KONAMI GAMING – SATOSHI SAKAMOTO, CEO – KEY PERSON – Steven Sandville,
Director of Legal Affairs, was present on behalf of Satoshi Sakamoto, to request approval as
a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board approve Satoshi Sakamoto as a Key Person of Konami Gaming. Member Barry
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

JCM AMERICAN CORPORATION – NEW SUPPLIER – Donna More, Attorney, was
present on behalf of JCM American Corporation to request approval for a suppliers license.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board
approve the application of JCM American Corporation for a Supplier’s license for a period
of one year expiring November 2003 and approve JCM American Corporation to provide

5

 Bill Acceptor Model Series WBA-10/11, WBA-12/13, DBV-145, and DBV-200, replacement
parts, repair services, and technical support for Illinois Riverboat Gaming Operations.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the
Board certify and approve the following entities, position and persons as Key Persons of
the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Japan Cash Machine Co., Ltd;
Joto Kosan Co., Ltd.;
JCM American Corp.;
President;
Akiyoshi Isoi;
Koichiro Kamihigashi; and
Yojiro Kamihigashi.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 55 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 167 applications for an
Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to the following two applicants for Level 3 licenses, each of whom previously
received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or
provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.
2.

Cathryn Volanti; and
Darrell Gordon.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF THE ROCK ISLAND BOATWORKS, INC. D/B/A
CASINO ROCK ISLAND, RONALD E. WICKS AND GARY A. BUETTNER – Based on a
review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
issue a disciplinary complaint against The Rock Island Boatworks Inc. (“Casino Rock
Island”), an Owner Licensee; Ronald E. Wicks, a Level 1 Occupational Licensee; and Gary
A. Buettner, a Level 1 Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat
Gambling Act, the Board’s Adopted Rules and Casino Rock Island’s ICS and, in
particular, for their involvement in incidents where (1) the Casino Rock Island marine

6

 department was ordered to sort Jackpot/Fill slips and (2) Jackpot/Fill slips were removed
from Casino Rock Island’s premises to be sorted at another location.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board (1) fine The Rock Island Boatworks Inc.
$10,000; (2) suspend Ronald E. Wicks for three days without pay; and (3) suspend Gary A.
Buettner for three days without pay. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensees file answers within that time
period. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF TORIE LAMPTON – Based on a review of Staff's
investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board issue a disciplinary
complaint against Torie Lampton, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply
with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her
October 4, 2002 forgery conviction.
Further, Member Rogal moved that the Board revoke Torie Lampton’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Barry seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF DWAYNE CONNETT – Based on a review of
Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board issue a
disciplinary complaint against Dwayne Connett, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee, for
failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in
relation to his September 31, 2002 theft conviction.

Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Dwayne Connett’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Barry
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF AMBER OPP – Based on a review of Staff's
investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board issue a disciplinary
complaint against Amber Opp, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with
the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her admission
that she (1) had on multiple occasions fraudulently kept the proceeds of beverage sales for
herself and (2) fraudulently entered information on a patron’s credit card receipt in order
to procure a tip.
Further, Member Rogal moved that the Board revoke Amber Opp’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Barry seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT D/B/A GRAND
VICTORIA CASINO, PETE DOMINGUEZ, SCOTT ENSLIN AND EDWARD CISOWSKI.
NO. DC-01-08 – Mr. William Kunkle, Attorney, was present on behalf of Edward Cisowski.
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board accept the proposed
settlement agreement pertaining to Edward Cisowski and delegate to the Administrator the
authority to execute such agreement.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board authorize legal counsel to present the
settlement agreement to Administrative Law Judge Patricia Holland for disposition of this
matter, as it pertains to the individual petitioner only, in accordance with the terms of the
settlement agreement. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

Board Member Comments
Member Rogal thanked Member Barry for his service on the Board. Member Rogal stated
that the Board benefited greatly by Member Barry’s experience, both in the courts and in the
legislature.
At 2:00 P.M., Member Barry moved that the Board adjourn. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

8

 