MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
August 31, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
On Wednesday, August 31, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:11 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, and Member Steve Dolins. Member Thomas Dunn
participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of July 20, 2016. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski congratulated Pattie Lowe on her retirement.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Consideration

(No Board Action / No Vote Required)

o Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – License Renewal
o Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Transfer of
Individual Ownership – Request to Waive Two Meeting Rule. (Note: the
Board will act on the request for waiver below.)
o MGM Resorts International - Refinancing
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines –
License Renewal
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the Owner’s License of the Midwest Gaming
& Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino in Des Plaines, Illinois for a period of four years,
expiring in August 2016, and approve the following entities and persons as Key Persons of the
licensee:
 Neil G. Bluhm
 Gregory A. Carlin
 Andrew G. Bluhm

 













Leslie Nan Bluhm
Meredith A. Bluhm-Wolf
Prashant Gupta
Benjamin Jeffrey Parr
Kenneth B. Rotman
Angus Cole
Jaime Peisach
CVG Chicago Gaming, LP
CEP IV Chicago Holdco, LLC
CEP IV Co-invest L.P.
Clairvest Equity Partners IV LP
Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, L.P., and
Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, GP, LLC

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation - Boyd Gaming Corporation – Refinancing
Transaction

Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the refinancing transaction request submitted
by Boyd Gaming Corporation for an amount not to exceed $2.326 billion, including guarantee of
debt payment by Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation, subject to the final pricing terms of the
transaction being provided to the Administrator. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Transfer of
Individual Ownership Interests

Member Dolins moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule, and approve the request
submitted by Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino to terminate, and equally
divide and transfer the currently approved A.N.P. Trust #4 and A.N.P. Trust #5 into the five
following separate trusts each holding an interest in Illinois RBG, LLC and in Grand Victoria
Casino (GVC): 1) A.N.P. Descendants Trust – NMP, 2) A.N.P. Descendants Trust – ZAP, 3)
A.N.P. Descendants Trust – CMP, 4) A.N.P. Descendants Trust – JJP, and 5) A.N.P.
Descendants Trust – JAP. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.


Hollywood Casino Aurora – Patrick Kauffman – Surveillance Director –
Level 1

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Patrick Kauffman as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in his position as Surveillance Director for Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Cummins-Allison Corp. – Surrender of Supplier License
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the voluntary surrender by Cummins-Allison
Corp. of its Supplier's license effective immediately. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


IGT – Supplier License Renewal

Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the renewal of the supplier license of IGT for a
period of four (4) years, retroactive to July 2016, expiring in July, 2020. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal

Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Supplier's License renewal
application of Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. Member Robinson seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approvals and Denials)
Member Alejandre moved to find suitable and approve 75 Level 2 occupational licenses, and
133 Level 3 occupational licenses. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINTS - FINAL ORDERS:
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt the Recommended Decision of the Administrative
Law Judge, and enter a Final Order revoking the occupational license of Jumer's Casino's IT
Manager, Joel Konrardy, for installing unauthorized cameras at Jumer's Casino. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board adopt the Recommended Decision of the
Administrative Law Judge, and enter a Final Order revoking the occupational license of Par-ADice dealer Jeffrey Clanin due to his arrests and guilty pleas for retail theft. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against IGT, fining the
company $10,000 for failing to submit its license renewal application on a timely basis, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is
properly filed. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.

3

 Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint suspending for one-day
the occupational license of David Kandow for failing to obtain the Administrator's approval
before transferring progressive jackpot amounts between Electronic Gaming Devices at Harrah's
Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an
Answer is properly filed. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to suspend for five (5)
days the occupational license of Tylor Perry for violating the no-solicitation policy of
Hollywood Casino Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Jennifer L. Miller due to her conduct of theft, said action to take effect
21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed
within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Maggi Aurand for engaging in theft, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that
time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
occupational license of John J. Miller for possession of illegal substances and violating the
Casino policy, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the occupational
license of Bradley C. Antos for being intoxicated while performing his duties at Harrah's Joliet,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to
the Complaint is filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the occupational
license of Troy Buehler for accepting and inserting a voucher into an Electronic Gaming Device
while off duty at Hollywood Aurora Casino, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Edgar Castillo for failing to notify the Board and Rivers Casino of his
arrest and subsequent guilty plea, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of

4

 the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:40 A.M. Member Dolins motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 