STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on December 6, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Paul S. Besson, Member of the State Panel; James Q.
Brennwald, Member of the State Panel; Michael G. Coli, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington,
Member of the State Panel; Robert M. Gierut, Local Panel Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the
Local Panel; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Local Panel; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

A. Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the July 12, 2011 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion—five
in favor, none against—Member Besson, Member Brennwald, and Chairman Gierut abstained.
B.

IV.

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the September 13, 2011 meeting.
Member Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the
motion—five in favor, none against—Members Besson, Brennwald, and Sadlowski abstained.
BOARD ACTIONS

A. The Board considered the following proposed meeting dates for 2012, with the Local Panel meetings
to begin at 10:00 a.m. and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.: January 10; February 7;
March 6; April 12; May 15; June 12; July 10; August 14; September 11; October 11; November 15;
and December 11. The Board considered the following proposed backup meeting dates for 2012, with
the Local Panel meetings to begin at 10:00 a.m. and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.:
January 12; February 9; March 8; May 17; June 14; July 12; August 16; September 13; and December
13.
B.

V.

The Board considered the application of Mr. Thomas F. Sonneborn for addition to the agency's
mediation/arbitration roster. The Board discussed Mr. Sonneborn's overall experience and
background. At the conclusion thereof, Member Coli made a motion to add Mr. Sonneborn to the
Board's mediation/arbitration roster. Member Washington seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
LEGISLATIVE/FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Brosnan updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency,
noting in particular the supplemental appropriation granted to the agency to aid with the costs of court
reporting, SB2412 HAM2. He then presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and
the disbursement record. In addition, he presented an updated report regarding the agency's court reporting
expense. The Board then discussed and questioned various aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

UPDATE REGARDING CHANGES TO BOARD'S RULES AND REGULATIONS

 General Counsel Post discussed the status of the agency's efforts to amend the Rules and Regulations, 80 Ill.
Admin. Code §§1200-1240, so as to shift the costs of court reporting from the agency to the parties
participating in hearings. The Board discussed and questioned aspects of the matter at length.
VII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss
personnel/hiring matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a
motion to leave executive session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. In open session,
Chairman Gierut noted that at the September 13, 2011 Joint Panel meeting, the Board passed a motion
regarding the fact that the Governor's office appointed him to the chairmanship of the Local Panel as provided
for in the Act, but due to an oversight in appropriations, he could not be compensated. He further noted that in
that motion, the Board agreed that pursuant to a request from the Governor's office that the agency assist in a
short-term resolution of the matter, until the General Assembly had the opportunity to correct the oversight in
the legislative veto session, to place him on the agency's payroll until no later than December 31, 2011,
provided that prior to any such placement, the Governor's Office of General Counsel deliver to the Board an
appropriate opinion indicating that such action comports with all applicable laws and that the Board is
empowered to expend funds appropriated to it in the manner contemplated. Chairman Gierut noted that
thereafter, the General Assembly acted in the legislative veto session to correct the earlier oversight in
appropriations, and as the General Assembly remedied the problem that the Joint Panel's September 13 motion
was aimed at, prior to the above-listed contingencies taking place, there was no longer a need to place him on
the agency's payroll, nor in fact, was he ever, at any time, on the agency's payroll. Chairman Gierut moved
that the Joint Panel of the Board revoke the entirety of its September 13, 2011 motion in connection with the
issue regarding his compensation, noting in the minutes the accompanying reasoning. Member Anderson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of January, 2012.

2

 