STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 12, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel, and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 8, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the July 8, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Besson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from June 1 through June 30, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it. Executive Director Mlynski then presented the fiscal, legislative and mediation
reports. The Board discussed the reports.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-CA-11-255 and S-CB-11-063
Barbara Martenson/ County of Boone and Boone County Sheriff and International Union, United
Automobile Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America, Local 1761

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on April 29, 2014,
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Elaine L. Tarver issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) finding that
the Union had not violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, but that the Employer had
violated Section 10(a)(1) of the Act. He then discussed the Charging Party’s and the Employer’s exceptions and the
Charging Party’s response as well as Charging Party’s motion for sanctions. After his discussion, General Counsel
Post recommended that the Board affirm the RDO, with modifications and also recommended that the Board deny
Charging Party’s motion for sanctions. After detailed discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO with
modifications and deny the motion for sanctions. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CB-13-033
Tri-State Protection District/ Tri-State Professional Firefighters Union, Local 3165, IAFF
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on March 14, 2014,
ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO finding that the Respondent violated Section 10(b)(4) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act. He then discussed the exceptions and responses filed by both parties. After his discussion, General
Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the RDO with modifications. After detailed discussion, Member
Brennwald moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-11-157
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/ County of Lee
General Counsel Post called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kerley’s RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case Nos. S-CA-12-008 and S-CA-12-010
Sheena L. McMurray and Annie Maliongas/ State of Illinois, Department of Central Management
Services (Department of Human Services)
General Counsel Post called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-12-145-C
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Lyons
General Counsel Post called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Hamburg-Gal’s RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Brennwald made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of September, 2014.

2

 