STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 9, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F.
Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting. Member Coli was absent due to
illness.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JUNE 5, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the June 5, 2007 meeting. Member Piper moved to
approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from June 1 through June 30, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for review, and
the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights, noting that during the
month, the agency issued ten certifications pursuant to majority interest petitions, fifteen certifications
pursuant to unit clarification petitions, and three certifications directed pursuant to unit clarification petitions.
The agency also received withdrawals in connection with three representation petitions, and the agency's
Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) issued two Recommended Decisions and Orders (RDOs), resolving five
representation cases. The Executive Director also noted that with regard to unfair labor practice cases, the
agency issued eighteen complaints for hearing and ten administrative dismissals, two deferrals, and had nine
charges withdrawn.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-07-015
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police/City of Batavia

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-RC-07-028
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/State of Illinois, Dep't of Military Affairs
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-UC-(S)-07-033
State and Municipal Teamsters Union, Local 726/City of Calumet City
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

Case Nos. S-RC-07-042 and S-RC-07-078
4.
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/State of Illinois, Department of Central
Management Services
Case Nos. S-RC-07-046 and S-RC-07-150
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the ALJ issued an RDO in these cases,
granting a petition filed by American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
(AFSCME), dismissing a petition filed by AFSCME, and dismissing two petitions filed by Service
Employees International Union, Local 73 (Local 73). The Chairman further noted that Local 73 timely filed
exceptions to the ALJ's decision. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board decline to accept the ALJ's recommendation as to the dismissal
of the petition in Case No. S-RC-07-078, and instead, direct a representation election on the petitions in Case
Nos. S-RC-07-078 and S-RC-07-150. As neither party excepted to the ALJ's dismissal of the petitions in
Case Nos. S-RC-07-042 and S-RC-07-046, he recommended that the Board decline to take up those cases on
its own motion. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ’s
determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Piper moved to
accept the recommendation of the Acting General Counsel. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-07-065
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 714/Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of
Cook County/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that Executive Director John F. Brosnan issued a
Decision and Order directing an election, on June 19, 2007, and Intervenor, American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, appealed therefrom on July 2, 2007. Acting General Counsel
Wells detailed her review of the matter and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's
order. After a short discussion by the Board, Member Piper moved to accept the recommendation of Acting
General Counsel Wells. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher updated the Board as to the progress of the overall budget and other general fiscal
issues, and reported on certain personnel matters. The Board then discussed various aspects of the matters
presented. Subsequently, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it
was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of August, 2007.

2

 