MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MAY 12, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on May 12, 1998, in
room #S-304 of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board members participated via telephonic conferencing: Chairman J.
Thomas Johnson and Members William B. Browder, Gayl. S. Pyatt, Terry A. Scrogum
and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph Haughey and Allan McDonald, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack, and other
members of the staff.
The meeting was convened at 9:16 a.m. Member Scrogum moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (4) and (11) of the Open
Meetings Act to discuss the following subject matter:
• Issues concerning applicants and licensees, and
• Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
consent.

The Board adopted the motion by unanimous

The Board recessed at 10:10 a.m. at which time Chairman Johnson excused himself to
attend another meeting.
The Board convened in Open Session at 10:28 a.m.
In absence of the Chairman, Member Scrogum moved that Member Vickrey serve as
Chairman Pro-tempore for the remainder of the meeting. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board order HP, Inc. to provide to the Board on or
before June 30, 1998 an annual audit of the finances of HP, Inc. for the year ended
December 31, 1997 conducted in conformity with the requirements of Board rule
3000.1030. I further move that the Board order HP, Inc. to provide to the

 Administrator on or before May 18, 1998 an engagement letter from a qualified
accounting firm for the conduct of that audit. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Scrogum moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 10:40 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

 