MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 9, 1992
DES PLAINES, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 10:00 A.M. on
July 9, 1992 at the Board's Administrative offices located in Des Plaines,
Illinois. The meeting was called pursuant to previous action of the Board in
establishing it's Regular Meeting schedule and Notice was duly and timely given
to each Board Member and to the general public in conformity with Section 42.02
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr.,
Chairman and Members William J. Chamblin, Jr., J. Thomas Johnson, Robert F.
Vickrey and Michael H. Zaransky. Also in attendance were Administrator Morton
E. Friedman, Deputy Administrators Joseph Mc Quaid and Marcy L. Wolf; Chief
Legal Counsel Donna B. More; other Board staff, the media and the general
public.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at
10:02 A.M.
The first order of business was a discussion concerning the scope of
regulation and regulation of non-gaming suppliers. The Chairman recognized
Member Michael Zaransky.
Mr. Zaransky discussed two areas of businesses that currently operate in
Illinois as ancillary suppliers to riverboat casinos: tour and junket operators
and persons operating schools that train casino personnel. Mr. Zaransky stated
that although he knew of no problems existing presently, that he believed the
Board should consider licensing those entities to avoid future problems. He
noted that testimony before the Chicago gaming hearings had disclosed that some
tour operators routinely loaned money to patrons or assessed a separate entry
fee for gamblers. The Chairman reviewed the regulatory history of the Board
with regard to the licensing of suppliers to the gaming industry and the events
unfolding in the state of New Jersey concerning allegations that organized crime
had infiltrated the industry through supply of non-gaming services. The
Chairman noted that the regulatory scheme adopted in Illinois, placed the
responsibility for operators to engage with reputable businesses on the
ownership of the enterprise. The Chairman next recognized Administrator
Friedman for discussion.
Mr. Friedman
to non-gaming suppliers,
would serve to shift the
businesses to the state.
would dilute the Board's

stated that while the Board could extend its licensing
that to do so would increase the cost of business and
responsibility for owners to deal with reputable
He noted that the greater range of licensing desired
staff resources.

Member Johnson asked the Administrator to clarify that if an owner was
doing business with an individual who the Board would not approve of, was the
owner the entity to be brought before the Board? Mr. Friedman responded that
the owner could have action taken against the license if the owner reasonably
had knowledge of who the enterprise was dealing with. Mr. Johnson observed that
the Board would be placed in the difficult position of proving whether an owner
had reasonable knowledge and, that given the value of an owner's license, the
Board could expect significant debate to dissuade the Board from taking a
revocation action. Noting that a revocation proceeding could be very costly,

 Mr. Johnson stated that under expanded licensing, the licensee would pay the
cost for investigations while under the current regulatory structure, the
taxpayers of Illinois absorbed the cost of investigation.
Mr. Friedman stated that cost could be directed to the owners in any
manner the Board desired and noted that it would be a rare occasion when staff
would be called upon to do such an investigation. He suggested that
consideration should be given to whether licensing should be expanded to address
the rare exception and thereby drive up the cost of conducting business in the
state and dilute staff resources.
Mr. Zaransky stated that, in general, he agreed with the Administrator
relative to the provider of general services, but that he felt that the Board
should study and consider the providers of specialized services such as junkets
and training schools. He noted that while the audit process would discover
abuses from the generalized services, that he was unsure that the audit would be
able to discover abuses in ancillary suppliers. Mr. Friedman responded that the
auditors had been instructed to identify any contract which appeared to be in
excess of fair market value. Deputy Administrator Wolf stated that additional
instructions had been issued to the auditors to compare pricing with other
vendors to identify possible rules violations.
Member Vickrey stated that the Board should be concerned with tour and
junket operators. He noted that organized gambling or spontaneous gambling
aboard buses while in transit would hold down the amounts wagered in riverboat
casinos. Mr. Friedman noted that such activity would constitute a criminal
offense under Illinois statutes but that the penalty invoked did not provide a
deterrent to commission of the offense. Mr. Vickrey suggested that licensing
the tour operator could operate as an effective deterrent because holding of the
license directed the economic viability of the tour company. Mr. Friedman
stated that the possible revocation of an owner's license would act as a greater
deterrent. He noted that owners were not about to defy a Board order not to
conduct business with a certain individual or organization and that the rules
already covered the situation where a contract that called for compensation
based on a percentage of gaming would require licensing by the Board.
Mr. Johnson requested that the staff present a report at the next regular
meeting concerning the licensing of non-gaming suppliers in Nevada, New Jersey
and Iowa and what the impact of licensing of junketeers and casino schools would
entail. Mr. Zaransky requested that the presentation include the number of tour
and junket operators, whether any are compensated by percentage and the number
of casino schools in the state. There was no further discussion.
The next item of business concerned limitation of debt-equity ratios.
Chairman recognized Member Johnson.

The

Mr. Johnson stated that the issue he wished to discuss with the Board
related to the amount of debt that was entered into by owners. He noted that
when applications for licensing were first filed, nobody had anticipated the
popularity or profitability of riverboat gambling in Illinois. There had been
difficulty for investors to invest equity and therefor all investors had
incurred substantial amounts of debt. Mr. Johnson stated that he felt the debt
to equity ratios were too high which could threaten economic viability of the
licensees.
Mr. Johnson requested that the staff review and report to the Board at the
next regular meeting on suggested debt to equity ratios which could be required

 of licensees to retire debt. He specifically requested that the practices of
Nevada and New Jersey be reviewed and that impact on long term leases and
tangible personal property be included in the review. Mr. Johnson stated that
his concern was whether earnings were being used to retire debt or simply
distributed to shareholders while high amounts of debt remained. He noted that
in many instances, applicants had significantly altered debt to equity ratios
after they had been found preliminarily suitable for licensing, and that the
changes had increased the amount of debt, not equity, of the shareholders.
There was no further discussion
The next item of business concerned the regulation of debt offerings.
Chairman recognized Member Zaransky.

The

Mr. Zaransky discussed a need for regulating debt offerings. He observed
that under debt offering structures, the holder of debt instruments could
eventually become the owner of the enterprise, which could be an entity that was
not licensed by the Board. Mr. Zaransky stated that such a proposed regulation
should provide for an exemption for institutional investors, but should apply to
individuals acquiring debt instruments who therefor acquire various levels of
control over the enterprise.
Mr. Friedman agreed that the issue deserved study and refinement of the
rules. He noted that New Jersey had handled the issue through an after-the-fact
review and that he felt that approach to be appropriate. Mr. Friedman stated
that staff had already begun looking at the issue and would report its findings
and recommendations to the Board. There was no further discussion.
The next order of business concerned applicant reporting of progress and
revocation of findings of preliminary suitability. The Chairman recognized
Member Zaransky.
Mr. Zaransky stated that he would prefer to undertake the discussion
during the status reports of applicants.
Without objection, the Chairman moved to the next order of business,
status report of applicants. The Chairman first recognized Arch Paddle Boat
Company.
Mr. John Janicik, attorney for the applicant and Mr. Jim Edlund appeared
on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Janicik reported that Arch Paddle had entered
into a purchase agreement for the acquisition of riverboat. The vessel, now
named the Casino Queen, has a passenger capacity of 3,000 persons with 1200
gaming positions and should be delivered in February, 1993. It is anticipated
that the Casino Queen will be operational in March, 1993. He also reported that
discussions with the Southwestern Illinois Development Authority for the leasing
of property for parking were entering their final stages. The Chairman called
for discussion and recognized Member Vickrey.
Mr. Vickrey asked questions concerning the construction schedule. Mr.
Edlund responded that construction on shore facilities should commence in
September 1992. Mr. Janicik added information concerning construction of the
Metro-Link in St. Louis which could be constructed in 1993 depending on the
acquisition of funds by Missouri officials. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Aurora Riverboats Incorporated.

 Mr. William Weidner, President of Pratt Hotel Corporation and Mr. John
Janicik, Attorney for the applicant appeared. Mr. Weidner told the Board of the
physical progress of the shore based facilities noting that foundations were
being poured that day. He described the debt offering financial plan that had
been secured and approved by New Jersey officials. He told the Board that the
project, costing $60 million, was on target for a June 15, 1993 operational
start date. Mr. Weidner continued to describe, in detail, the financial plan
and structure and listed the public investors who had purchased the debt
offerings. The Chairman called for discussion.
Mr. Zaransky and Mr. Johnson asked questions concerning the financial
structuring and the protection for funding of the Aurora project. Mr. Weidner
responded that the funds for the project were being held in escrow with Chicago
Title acting as agent with the money being invested by Continental Bank. Mr.
Weidner stated that the money was the assets of Aurora Riverboat Incorporated
and was guaranteed by the parent company, Pratt Hotel Corporation, through a
first mortgage debt instrument. Mr. Weidner acknowledged that the money was
held as debt to Aurora Riverboats Incorporated. Mr. Johnson asked questions
concerning debt retirement and asked that the applicant supply the Board with a
plan for debt retirement of Aurora Riverboats Incorporated.
Mr. Vickrey asked questions concerning lack of progress of constructing
the facilities in Aurora. Mr. Weidner responded that the change in the
financial structuring was the primary cause for delay. He noted, however, that
while pouring of the shore facility foundation was occurring that day,
unforeseen events could delay an operational start date beyond the June 15, 1993
timetable that the enterprise was anticipating. Mr. Zaransky noted that the
Board was reviewing more applications than were licenses available, and that
Aurora Riverboats Incorporated was reserving itself a license through delay to
the exclusion of other applicants. Mr. Weidner responded that Aurora Riverboats
Incorporated's aggressive plans would not have allowed the enterprise to become
operational within one year, and that loss of the original financial plan
furthered delay from their original target date of early Spring 1993. There was
no further discussion.
The Board recessed its proceedings at 11:58 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened at 12:12 P.M. Chairman Kunkle was
called away from the meeting necessitating the selection of a Chairman Pro
tempore. Member Zaransky moved that Member Johnson serve as Chairman Pro
tempore for the purposes of this meeting. Member Vickrey seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Board resumed hearing status reports from applicants found
preliminarily suitable for licensing. The Chairman recognized Des Plaines
Development Corporation.
Mr. Tim Wilmott appeared on behalf of Harrah's Casino Cruises, Joliet. He
was joined by Mr. John Mezera, City Manager, City of Joliet. Mr. Wilmott told
the Board that the enterprise was proceeding in a timely manner for a Spring
1993 opening, and that the vessel was in the fourth month of construction. He
noted that the City of Joliet was anticipating the approval of permits from the
Army Corps of Engineers for the construction of a boat basin. Mr. Wilmott
stated that the total cost of the project would exceed $32 million and that $5
million had already been spent. He stated that the boat would consist of
approximately 800 gaming positions. Mr. Mezera told the Board about various
municipal projects that were underway in the City of Joliet in anticipation of

 the opening of the enterprise.
Member Zaransky.

The Chairman asked for discussion and recognized

Mr. Zaransky asked several questions concerning the status of the original
application submitted by Mr. John Q. Hammons, the approved applicant. Mr.
Zaransky noted that Harrah's had filed an application to be a supplier of gaming
management and to purchase an ownership interest that the Board had not yet
approved. Mr. Wilmott agreed with Mr. Zaransky's assessment and stated that
Harrah's had signed a partnership agreement with Mr. Hammons making Harrah's the
80% owner of the enterprise.
Mr. Zaransky returned to his questions concerning the changes in the
enterprise from the original approved application. In response to questions,
Mr. Wilmott told the Board that the hotel and conference center, the retail,
commercial and specialty shops as well as other originally proposed facilities
had all been eliminated from the plans of the owners. Mr. Wilmott additionally
told the Board that the originally proposed two vessels with capacities of 1500
and 1200 had been changed to one vessel with a capacity of 1200 and that the
anticipated number of new jobs was reduced from 1500 to 500 - 600.
Mr. Mezera told the Board that the City of Joliet had never received any
commitment from the applicants for any of the original projects and that the
City of Joliet was not raising any objection to any of the changes. Mr.
Zaransky responded that the Gaming Board had relied on the contents of the
original application in finding the application suitable of licensing.
Mr. Zaransky and Mr. Johnson asked several questions concerning the
financial structure of the enterprise. The administrator asked Mr. Wilmott if
the contribution of $6 million from Mr. Hammons was in the form of cash or a
valuation of the license. Mr. Wilmott was unable to answer the question.
Mr. Johnson asked that staff prepare a report comparing the original
application to the proposal that was now being put before the Board. He noted
that significant changes had occurred requiring Board approval.
Mr. Vickrey asked why Mr. Hammons chose not to go forward with the
original application. Mr. Wilmott responded that the reason reflected Mr.
Hammons' financial resources and Harrah's expertise in the casino industry.
later revised his statement to reflect that Harrah's financial and human
resources were greater than Mr. Hammons' and that he was not suggesting Mr.
Hammons was financially unstable.

He

Mr. Johnson stated that the discussion demonstrated the need for clear
standards to be applied to all applicants whenever any change to an application
was being contemplated by the enterprise.
Mr. Mezera stated that all commitments made to the City of Joliet by
Harrah's were being honored and that he hoped the Board realized how important
the project was to the City of Joliet. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.
Mr. Jerry Turk appeared on behalf of the enterprise and told the Board
that the Empress began operations on June 17, 1992 and for the first ten days,
had run reduced passenger loads. They held their grand opening on June 27,
1992.
He noted that Empress had begun its full operations on Sunday, June 28,

 1992. Mr. Turk stated that the management was pleased with results that had
occurred. The Chairman asked for discussion.
Mr. Johnson asked questions about the content of Empress' advertising.
Empress had been advertising that wagers of $5 to $2000 would be accepted. Mr.
Turk responded explaining the reasons for the ad's content. Mr. Vickrey
commented that he had attended the grand opening and complimented the
enterprise.
The Administrator reported to the Board that pursuant to the Board's
authorization, staff had conducted a final practice gaming excursion. He stated
that the excursion had been successfully completed and a temporary operating
permit had been issued. He requested the Board to approve final licensing.
Mr. Zaransky moved that the application received from Empress River Casino
Corporation be approved as the holder of an Owner's License. Mr. Chamblin
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Zaransky next asked questions concerning junkets and tour operators.
Mr. Turk responded that the Board should reserve the right to require licensing
of any person or business, but for the most part businesses did not need to be
licensed. Mr. Turk further stated that he believed that junket operators should
be licensed. Mr. Vickrey asked a question about future availability of
automatic teller machines aboard the vessel. Mr. Turk responded that issues
concerning branch banking restrictions were being studied and would hopefully
allow placement of such machines aboard the Empress in the near future.
The Administrator asked Mr. Turk to discuss a definition of junketeer.
Mr. Turk responded in general terms. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture.
Mr. Joe Duelman appeared representing the applicant and told the Board
that the Silver Eagle had been operational since June 18, 1992. The Chairman
asked for discussion.
The Administrator reported to the Board that pursuant to Board
authorization, staff had conducted a final practice gaming excursion. He stated
that the excursion had been successfully completed and a temporary operating
permit had been issued. He requested the Board to approve final licensing.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the application received from Jo Daviess Riverboat
Joint Venture be approved as the holder of an Owner's License. Mr. Chamblin
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
A point of order was raised by a member of the audience who alleged he was
representing the City of Galena and had requested, in writing, to speak to the
Board concerning this application. The Chairman explained that a letter had
been received the day before the Board meeting and the request had been taken
under advisement and would be scheduled as an agenda item at a future meeting.
The Administrator reviewed the sequence of events concerning receipt of the
letter and urged the Board to proceed with the meeting. All Board members then
reviewed the letter and noted the letter had been written on blank paper. The
Board could not verify that the City of Galena was requesting any individual to
represent them. Mr. Zaransky further noted that the issues raised in the letter

 were out of order as they described a disagreement between the City and the
licensee in which the Riverboat Gambling Act did not empower the Board to
intercede. Without objection, the Chairman called the previous question.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises,
Incorporated.
Mr. David Fishman and Michael Ficaro appeared on behalf of the applicant.
They told the Board that construction of a vessel was on schedule and that the
hull would be floated during the first week of August. He detailed that a
second vessel which would serve the site with restaurant and meeting facilities
had been moved to Paducah, Kentucky and was in the process of being retrofitted
for those purposes. Retrofitting was due to be completed in October.
Construction on parking lots was underway and permits for the construction of a
100x600 foot harbor had been obtained from the Army Corps of Engineers.
Mr. Fishman commented on the issue of junketeers and tour operations. Mr.
Fishman stated that licensing tour operators would greatly restrict the ability
of an enterprise to offer tour packages at reduced rates and had no relationship
to gaming. He noted that junketeers held a different relationship with boat
owners and were the recipient of compensation from the amount of gaming
occurring from those persons brought to the boat by the junketeer. Mr. Friedman
asked clarifying questions on the subject and noted that in conducting a review
of the issue that the industry would be consulted.
Mr. Fishman told the Board that the financial plan had been completed and
that the project was 100% financed. The Chairman called for discussion.
Mr. Zaransky asked questions concerning the financial plan and noted that
it appeared that one person had obtained a 20% holding. Mr. Fishman responded
that the person who had invested would own 14-20% of the parent company stock,
not Southern Illinois Riverboat. Mr. Ficaro stated that while the rules would
not require the individual to file a disclosure statement, that in the offering
itself, investors were told that they could be required to file disclosure
statements for the approval of the Board. Mr. Zaransky stated that at the
previous meeting, the discussion had resulted in the request for the individual
to file a personal disclosure application. Mr. Friedman noted that while the
subject of filing had been discussed, there was no final decision on that
question. He stated that staff had reviewed the prospectus to make sure that it
stated that the Board could require any individual to file a personal disclosure
but that staff had not requested the individual to file.
Mr. Vickrey asked questions concerning the status of land based facility
construction. Mr. Fishman responded in detail and explained what projects were
underway. Mr. Fishman also noted that discussions with a potential developer of
a hotel had taken place. There was also discussion concerning the status of the
boarder dispute between the States of Kentucky and Illinois which was pending
action before the U.S. Supreme Court. Mr. Fishman estimated that operations
would commence in March 1993. There was no further discussion.
The next item of business were status reports of licensed operators.
Chairman first called Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership.

The

Mr. J. Thomas Long appeared on behalf of the licensee and told the Board
that the partnership currently employed 587 persons with an annual payroll of

 $12 million. He stated that the City of Alton would receive between $2.5 and $3
million and that local merchants were used wherever possible in provided over $6
million in purchases of supplies. Mr. Long stated that the partnership was in
the process of reviewing future needs of the enterprise which would include
securing a new vessel and shore facilities. He noted that the enterprise had
paid $6.8 million of debt with cash and that the company was financially strong
through June 30, 1992. The Chairman called for discussion.
Mr. Zaransky asked whether Alton had experienced any impact from the
beginning of operations of the Empress in Joliet. Mr. Long responded that Alton
experienced very little attendance from the Chicago area.
Mr. Johnson asked whether Mr. Long felt it likely that Missouri would
approve a referendum allowing casino gaming. Mr. Long responded that he felt
the referendum would be approved. He noted that the Missouri proposal provided
for an unlimited number of licenses which would have a substantial impact on
Illinois operations but that whatever the outcome, the partnership would proceed
in upgrading the operation.
Mr. Johnson asked questions concerning the earlier discussion on limiting
debt/equity ratios. Mr. Long commented that the gaming industry was based on
large capital investments but noted that the industry does not produce
receivables or products to offset the initial investment. He stated that
special attention should be directed toward whether cash flow covered debt
service and accounts payable. Mr. Long said he would provide input to staff
concerning the issue. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
Mr. Tom Moore and Mr. Juri Basens appeared on behalf of the licensee and
updated the Board on operations noting that tax receipts of $5.7 million and
$2.3 million had been realized by the state and local units of government,
respectively. He state the enterprise had hired 701 employees with an annual
payroll of $14 million. Mr. Moore provided an update on the construction of the
permanent docksite in East Peoria. Mr. Basens told the Board that construction
of a Hampton Inn adjacent to the permanent docksite had begun. The Chairman
called for discussion.
Mr. Vickrey stated that he was pleased that the enterprise had begun to
complete the permanent docksite. Mr. Zaransky asked whether the Empress had
impacted the Peoria operation. Mr. Basens responded that attendance was lower
in the month of June, but that additional data was needed before he could
respond to the question with accuracy. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Rock Island Boatworks, Incorporated.
Mr. Michael Ficaro appeared on behalf of the licensee and told the Board
that the Casino Rock Island had hosted over 65,000 passengers since commencing
operations on March 11, 1992. He stated that the operation had 650 employees,
(of which 620 were Illinois citizens), with an annual payroll of $10 million.
Mr. Ficaro stated that $13 million was being invested in the City of Rock Island
by new investors and businesses. He stated that the company had reduced its
debt/equity ratio to under 50%. The Chairman called for discussion.
Mr. Johnson asked for comment concerning the closing of two Iowa
operations. Mr. Ficaro responded that it appeared to be a decision based on
local market conditions and a shifting of patrons from Iowa operators to Casino

 Rock Island. Mr. Friedman noted that it appeared Mr. Ficaro's observations were
accurate, but did not know whether the overall attendance had risen or dropped.
Mr. Johnson asked whether placing a license in Moline would have a negative
impact on the Rock Island operation. Mr. Ficaro declined to respond. Mr.
Friedman stated that he had specifically requested all interested parties not to
discuss the matter so that all parties would be heard at a more appropriate
time.
Mr. Zaransky asked Mr. Ficaro to submit additional information concerning
those individuals patronizing Casino Rock Island and from where they were
coming. Mr. Ficaro responded that 85% of patrons lived within 60 miles of Rock
Island. There was no further discussion.
Mr. Vickrey moved that pursuant to Illinois Revised Statutes Chapter 102,
Section 42.02 (g), (h) and (k), that the Board retire to Closed Session. Mr.
Zaransky seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 2:07 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 3:55 P.M.
The first order of business was approval of the minutes of the Regular
Board Meeting of May 14, 1992. Members Zaransky and Vickrey offered changes to
the minutes. Mr. Chamblin moved that the minutes of May 14, 1992 be approved as
corrected. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business was the approval of minutes of the Special
Meeting of June 16, 1992. Mr. Zaransky moved that the minutes be approved as
submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was Other Business.
Member Zaransky.

The Chairman recognized

Mr. Zaransky moved that the Illinois Gaming Board hold a Special Meeting
on July 28, 1992 for the sole purpose of deciding whether to revoke the finding
of preliminary suitability with respect to the application received from Des
Plaines Development Corporation and that the Administrator be instructed to
notify all interested parties of the Special Meeting with particular attention
to notifying Mr. John Q. Hammons and requesting his appearance. Mr. Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the approval of the staff report with
respect to employee licensing.
Mr. Chamblin moved that the Board approve the staff recommendations
concerning approval or denial of applications received for employee licenses for
the Alton Belle. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was amended to
include employee licensing applications received for persons employed for all

 other enterprises.
motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and nays on the amended

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Zaransky moved that the application received from Mr. James Scott
Connors to be an investor in J. Connors Group which is an owner/investor of the
Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership be approved. Mr. Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Johnson requested that staff be instructed to develop specific
guidelines for all entities to request Board approval of all changes to an
application after a finding of suitability has been issued by the Board and that
such guidelines contain time limits for submission and that the proposed
guidelines be submitted to the Board for consideration at the next Regular
Meeting of the Board. Mr. Friedman responded that staff would comply and
circulate a draft to the Members before the next meeting.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Zaransky
moved that the Board stand adjourned to July 28, 1992. Mr. Vickrey seconded the
motion.
Without objection, the Illinois Gaming Board adjourned at 4:05 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 