STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on April 12, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD March 13, 2012

Chairman Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the March 13, 2012 meeting. Member Anderson
moved to approve the minutes of the March 13, 2012 meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from March 1 to March 31, 2012. He presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-10-032
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of Cook/Sheriff
of Cook County

Chairman Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) Hamburg-Gal’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) finding that Respondent violated Section 10(a)(1)
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). General Counsel Post recommended that the Board
accept the ALJ’s determination of a violation, but alter the remedy by eliminating make-whole relief for the
discharge. After discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to accept the General Counsel's recommendation.
Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-09-066
Darryl Spratt/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut recused himself from the case. General Counsel Post called and reviewed the issues presented by
the exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, finding that Respondent violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315/10(b)(1) (2010). After discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to hold over
consideration of the case until another Board meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency.
Chairman Gierut then presented the updated agency’s performance metrics. After a short discussion regarding
whether there was a need for executive session, Chairman Gierut made a motion to leave open session. Member
Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski made a
motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member
Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of
the discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to leave executive session. Member Anderson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson then made a motion to return to
open session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of May, 2012.

2

 