STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 14, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board;
Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 9, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the July 9, 2007 meeting. Member Piper moved to
approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from July 1 through July 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board and summarized
its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-RC-06-175
1.
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/Village of Hazel Crest

Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Clifford's recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-07-036
Illinois Nurses Association/State of Illinois, Departments of Central Management Services and
Healthcare and Family Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that ALJ Morris issued a Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO) dismissing the petition filed by the Illinois Nurses Association (INA). Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's
determinations and the issues raised by the petition and the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member
Coli moved to decline to accept the ALJ's recommendation and instead, direct an election in the petitionedfor unit. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-RC-07-059
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 714/Village of Summit
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. Member Coli moved that the
Board take the case up on its own motion, without reaching the merits, for the sole purpose of effecting a

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

technical correction to the ALJ's decision, that is, to direct an election in the petitioned-for unit. Member
Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CB-07-023
American Federation of Professionals/Harvey Park District
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on June 8,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no issue of law or fact raised therein to
warrant an evidentiary hearing.
Member Hade moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CB-07-015
Delorise Flowers/Service Employees International Union, Local 880
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on June 8, 2007,
with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal. Member Hade moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-06-313
Sherry Tate/State of Illinois
Case No. S-CB-07-001
Sherry Tate/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher introduced the cases, noting that the Executive Director issued dismissals on June 18,
2007, with appeals filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeals and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissals. Member Coli moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding either fiscal or legislative matters, but
pointed out that thus far, our budget was in good shape and that the veto session would be during the first
two weeks of October. Subsequently, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session,
concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of October, 2007.

2

 