MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 13, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, February 13, 2008 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Wednesday, February 13, 2008 at 9:45 a.m. the following Board Members were present:
Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore. Chairman
Aaron Jaffe participated via telephonically.
At 9:45 a.m. on Wednesday, February 13, 2008 Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:35 a.m. The Board went
into open session at 10:45 a.m.
Roll call was taken at the start of the open session with Members Gardner, Winkler, Sullivan and
Moore present. Chairman Jaffe participated via telephonically.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Proposed Rule Changes
●

Sections 1071 – Second Notice Filing and Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved to authorize staff to submit the proposed amendment to
Section 1071 of the Adopted Rules for second notice filing with the Joint Committee
on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to authorize the final adoption and publishing of
Section 1071 as amended, provided no material changes are made to this section

 during the second notice process. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Rulemaking – Sections 625 and 840 – Final Adoption and Publishing
Member Moore moved to authorize final adoption and publishing of section 3000.625
and section 3000.840 of the Adopted Rules. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
a.

Items for Initial Consideration ●

MGM – Infinity World Investments LLC and Infinity World (Cayman) L.P. –
Request to Approved Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement – Waiver of the
Two Meeting Rule and Request to Approve Pledge Agreement
Pursuant to section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Winkler
moved to waive the two-meeting rule required by section 3000.105(e) of the
Rules to permit Infinity World Investments LLC and Infinity World
(Cayman) L.P. to present its request for approval of an Amended and
Restated Pledge Agreement. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

b.

Items for Final Action –
●

MGM – Infinity World Investments LLC and Infinity World (Cayman) L.P. –
Request to Approve Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement (If Waiver of
Two-Meeting Rule Approved)

RESOLUTION
Member Sullivan offered the following resolution:
WHEREAS, on October 16, 2007 the Board approved Infinity World Investments LLC’s
request to pledge up to 4.75% of the outstanding common stock of MGM MIRAGE to Credit
Suisse International, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
WHEREAS, on November 19, 2007 the Board approved the Pledge Agreement by and
among Infinity World Investments LLC, Credit Suisse International, Deutsche Bank AG,
London Branch and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
WHEREAS, the parties to the November 19, 2007 Pledge Agreement and Infinity World
(Cayman) L.P. desire to enter into an Amended And Restated Pledge Agreement in connection
with Infinity World (Cayman) L.P.’s tender offer to purchase shares of MGM Mirage common

2

 stock. The Amended And Restated Pledge Agreement adds Infinity World (Cayman) L.P. as a
pledgor and no other substantive amendment has been made to the original Pledge Agreement.
WHEREAS, if Infinity World (Cayman) L.P. acquires the maximum number of shares in
the tender offer (6,500,000) then Dubai World, through its affiliates, Infinity World Investments
LLC and Infinity World (Cayman) L.P., will be the beneficial owner of approximately 9.1% of
MGM Mirage common stock.
NOW THEREFORE,
Be It Resolved that the Board approves the Amended And Restated Pledge Agreement
by and among Infinity World Investments LLC, Infinity World (Cayman) L.P., Credit Suisse
International, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc provided,
however, that approval of the Amended And Restated Pledge Agreement does not preclude the
Board’s right and authority to approve the future transfer of pledged shares as may be required
by Illinois law.
Member Sullivan moved that the Board adopt this resolution. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS •

In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Maurice Yarbrough, No. DC-07-12 – Proposed
Settlement
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board accept
the proposed settlement from Maurice Yarbrough and delegate to the
Administrator the authority to execute a settlement agreement.
Further, Member Moore moved to authorize legal counsel to present the
settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for disposition of this
matter, in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

ADJOURNMENT At 10:55 a.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Sullivan seconded the
motion.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 