MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 21, 1997
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 21, 1997 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey and Kevin Lockhart, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack, other
members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Pyatt moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:50 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the July 17, 1997 special meeting. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the September 15 and 16, 1997 regular meeting. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Chairman’s Report

1

 The Chairman noted two additions to the agenda. Under the Policy section of the
agenda staff will request a proposal for a new Board rule to be filed on an emergency
basis. Under the Owner Licensee section of the agenda a hearing related to the
Casino Queen will be discussed.
The Chairman reported that Governor Edgar has not yet appointed a fifth Board
member.
The Chairman stated that the Board will next meet on December 2 with a holiday dinner
the evening before. He further noted that the Board may convene a special meeting in
November and that the meeting would be a teleconference. Chairman Johnson stated
that the Board will propose meeting dates for 1998 under the Policy section of the
agenda with final dates being reported at the December 2 Board meeting.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance;
and, Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported that:
•

Players/SIRCC will be changing its business name to Player’s Island Casino.
This business name transition will be done in conjunction with the
construction of new support facilities.

•

Casino Queen has created a new position of Chief Executive Officer and has
hired Philip Clark to assume this position.

•

The Associated Press ran an article on credit issuance on Illinois riverboats
that was misleading. The reporter skewed numbers from the IGB’s monthly
credit reports and misrepresented credit issued and credit outstanding for
over 30 days.

Owner Licensee Items
HARRAH’S - Bill Buffalo, representing Harrah’s, requested initial consideration for
construction of a hotel adjacent to its Joliet property. The financing will be handled
internally between the partners by way of capital contributions. The hotel will be
constructed by the General Partner, Harrah’s Illinois Corporation.
Tom O’Donnell, General Manager of Harrah’s, gave an overview of the project. Mr.
O’Donnell discussed design development and reported that the project would take 12 to
14 months to complete with a start date of December 1997. The hotel will be a full
service hotel, with ten floors, 204 rooms and 8,000 square feet of banquet space.

2

 Member Vickrey asked if Harrah’s currently owns the property of the proposed hotel
site. Mr. O’Donnell stated that the current site of the valet parking lot will be the site of
the hotel.
Member Pyatt asked if a sky-walk will be constructed. Mr. O’Donnell stated that the
sky-walk is a separate project currently underway with separate financing. The skywalk is scheduled to be complete by February 1998.
In response to Chairman Johnson, Mr. Buffalo stated that Harrah’s Illinois Corporation
G.P. will manage day to day hotel operations and Des Plaines Development L.P. will
own the hotel and finance it with new capital contributions. (DDLP will contribute 20
percent as the Limited Partner and HIC will contribute 80 percent as the General
Partner of Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet.)
CASINO QUEEN - Administrator Belletire reported that in July 1997 the Board
authorized the renewal of Casino Queen’s license for a one year period with the
stipulation that obligated various key persons to resolve outstanding matters by the
October 1997 Board meeting. One matter that remains unresolved pertains to
contracts between various owners and two private individuals. The contracts provide
compensation for assistance rendered during the formative period of the licensee. The
Administrator reported that he has been working with the parties regarding a hearing
process to resolve the value of the contracts but an agreement has not been reached.
The Administrator requested guidance from the Board.
Chairman Johnson stated that he will appoint a panel of three hearing officers in two
weeks.
HP, INC. (“HP”) - Administrator Belletire stated that at his request HP, Inc. was put on
the agenda due to a request from HP to destroy its stock of chips and tokens. The
Administrator requested guidance from the Board on this issue.
Joseph McQuaid, representing HP, stated that HP feels its chips and tokens are
obsolete and requests permission to destroy them. Mr. McQuaid reported that HP will
not be using the name “Silver Eagle” in the future so all assets with this name are
obsolete.
Chairman Johnson asked if HP’s intent is to bring another boat on line under a new
name if HP prevails in the administrative hearing process. Mr. McQuaid stated that a
new name would be used and chips and tokens would be re-minted bearing the new
name.
Chairman Johnson asked if HP is successful in its hearing would HP open another
facility at the East Dubuque location and incur the cost of re-minting chips and tokens.
Mr. McQuaid responded that if HP prevails in the administrative hearing, HP will reopen
in the State of Illinois and re-mint chips and tokens.

3

 Member Vickrey asked if HP would reopen in the same location (East Dubuque). Mr.
McQuaid stated that it depends on the findings of the administrative hearing. HP’s
request is to renew its license at a different location.
Chairman Johnson started a discussion on the power of the Board to relocate a license
under the current statute. Mr. McQuaid stated that HP asked for a motion in June 1997
that would clarify the role of the Board.
Member Pyatt stated that HP still has a license to operate a riverboat in Illinois and
asked what steps HP intends to take between now and the conclusion of the
administrative hearing to fulfill its duty to operate the license. Member Pyatt also asked
if HP is abandoning its duty to operate a license. Mr. McQuaid stated that in June it
was HP’s understanding that it needed to close down operations by July 31, 1997.
Michael Ficaro, representing HP, stepped up to answer questions pertaining to HP’s
license. Chairman Johnson stated that to operate a riverboat in Illinois the licensee
must have certain assets such as chips and tokens. HP’s destruction of items or sale
of assets is inconsistent with its decision to retain the license. Mr. Ficaro stated that
under his interpretation of the Administrative Procedures Act the license exists until final
action by the Board, and that HP has the right to the owner’s license.
Member Browder asked Mr. Ficaro if HP has considered that the law requires HP to
operate during this interim period. Mr. Ficaro responded that HP has taken a position
that is legal and that case law supports HP’s position.
Member Browder asked if severance pay had been paid to employees. Mr. McQuaid
confirmed that severance pay has been paid to all employees.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Ficaro to discuss the difference between the Board’s
action to not renew HP’s license versus the revocation of HP’s license. Mr. Ficaro
stated that revocation is a different standard under a different body of rules requiring
different responses. Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Ficaro to explain what the
responsibilities of HP are under each of the actions. Mr. Ficaro stated that the
Administrative Procedures Act provides that a license, while privileged, still has
committed rights and before those rights can be taken away, certain due process,
fundamental fairness and procedural requirements must be met. These requirements
must be measured by a court or a body acting as if they were a court. It is the right of
the license holder to pursue and retain such a license under fundamentally fair,
constitutional due process and procedural right before that license can be taken from
him.
Member Vickrey commented that he would like to see this matter moved along.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board deny the request by HP, Inc. to destroy its
entire inventory of chips and tokens. HP, Inc. has been told repeatedly that while
it is contesting the non-renewal of its owners license, HP, Inc. must continue to

4

 meet its duty to operate as a licensee. The Board will not allow HP, Inc. to
constructively abandon its commitments and obligations. The failure of HP, Inc.
to comply with the rules and orders of the Board will subject it to disciplinary
action. Member Browder second the motion and called that it be tabled until the
December 2, 1997 Board meeting. Member Vickrey seconded the motion to table the
motion. The motion to table the motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES (“SIRCC”) - Mike Ficaro,
representing SIRCC, requested approval of an amended senior credit facility.
Patrick Madamba, stated the reasons for the amendment and restatement of Players
International’s existing credit facility provided by Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and a group of
participating banks.
In response to Chairman Johnson, Mr. Madamba stated that Wells Fargo would
continue to be the lead bank and that some of the existing banks would continue
although others such as Banker’s Trust would be replaced.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the proposed amendment and
restatement of the company’s existing credit facility provided by Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. and other participating banks. This authorization is subject to
approval of the Administrator upon his review of the final documents and terms
of the credit facility. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Madamba requested approval of Earl Webb as a member of the Player’s Board of
Directors.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Earl Eugene Webb as a Key Person
of Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT (“ERR”) - Mr. Richard Schulze thanked the Board for
holding the September meeting in Elgin and requested renewal of its license.
Chairman Johnson stated that the Board appreciated the opportunity to visit the Elgin
community and ERR’s facility. He commented that it was interesting to see a riverboat
casino operation developed once the market was better understood.
Administrator Belletire reported that staff completed a background and audit of ERR
and found concerns related to its Internal Control System, Internal Audit function and
personnel system. The Administrator reported that staff met with ERR staff and
discussed its findings. He further noted that the licensee has not been fined nor has
any complaint actions been issued against the licensee since its opening. The
Administrator stated that ERR is an exceptionally successful casino and has
established a solid working relationship with community leaders. ERR has made major

5

 contributions to economic development, education and environmental protection
through a “profit-sharing” agreement. The Administrator recommended that the Board
renew the license of ERR.
Member Vickrey asked what steps ERR is taking in regard to hull inspections. Gregg
Solomon responded that a preliminary underwater hull inspection has been completed
by “Specialty Diving” and ERR is awaiting recommendations. Mr. Solomon discussed
other alternative methods if the findings are found unsuitable by the U.S. Coast Guard.
Mr. Solomon stated that the Grand Victoria is unique in that its hull construction allows
access to all interior void spaces for purposes of inspecting the interior of the hull.
Chairman Johnson asked how the Coast Guard has responded to ERR’s
methodologies. Mr. Solomon stated that ERR has discussed plans to construct a dry
dock in the Elgin area if necessary. The Chairman stated that the Board hopes the
industry will work together to resolve this issue.
Member Vickrey asked if a coffer dam could be built around the vessel as opposed to
building a dry dock. Mr. Solomon stated that the vessel needs to be supported and a
coffer dam does not allow for this.
Member Vickrey stated that history shows revenues decreasing after a licensee’s initial
three year period and asked what ERR would do if it saw revenues trailing off. Mr.
Solomon stated that ERRs immediate response would be to step up expenditures,
marketing and advertising and reach out further into the market area.
In response to a question from Member Vickrey, Mr. Solomon stated that Indian gaming
facilities in Northern Wisconsin have had a negligible effect on ERR’s revenues.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Elgin
Riverboat Resort’s (”ERR”) for a one year period commencing in October of 1997.
In renewing the license, the Board commends ERR for its success in contributing
to economic revitalization of the Elgin community. The Board also takes special
note of the extraordinary effort made by the licensee’s ownership to adhere to its
unique and worthy promise to dedicate 20 percent of its profits to fostering
economic development, education and environmental protection.
Furthermore, in renewing the license, the Board requests that during the
forthcoming renewal period, ERR undertake measures to analyze and strengthen
those aspects of its Internal Control System, its Internal Audit and its personnel
system, that staff has identified as warranting changes and improvements.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“Alton”) - Don Malloy, representing Alton, requested
renewal of its license.

6

 Administrator Belletire reported that Alton has complied with the conditions set forth in
its 1996 renewal and recommended that this license be renewed for one year. The
Administrator noted a primary concern during this renewal period regarding two
individuals. He stated that J. Thomas Long has not submitted his personal disclosure
form update and John Connors has failed to provide material information to the Board
relating to his ownership or sale of Argosy stock. The Administrator stated that the
Argosy Board does not have adequate means to compel shareholders to comply with
the Board’s reporting requirements.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Malloy to comment on the two shareholders and their
non-compliance. Mr. Malloy stated that he is working with Chief Counsel Cusack on bylaws to be voted on at Alton’s April 1998 shareholders meeting to compel compliance
with the Gaming Board regulations. Mr. Malloy stated that punitive action suggested for
the proxy statement would be compelling sale of shares. The Chairman stated that he
would like to see significant punitive actions in the by-laws if a shareholder does not
comply with IGB regulations.
In response to Chairman Johnson, Mr. Malloy stated that Mr. Connors is required to file
with the SEC and that the company had contacted the SEC regarding Connors’ failure
to file the required information.
Administrator Belletire reported that last year owner licensees and publicly-traded
parent corporations were surveyed regarding the mechanisms they maintain to assure
that individual owners comply with the Act and Board rules. He stated that of all
licensees, Argosy has the least stringent methods to enforce compliance.
Member Pyatt asked for a staff report on what other licensee’s do to assure
shareholder compliance and Chairman Johnson asked to see specific language
addressing this issue.
Member Vickrey asked Alton representatives to address the 17 percent drop in its
November monthly revenues and to describe steps taken to reverse the trend. Dick
Banner, Director of Finance, stated that two new casinos have opened in the St. Louis
area resulting in an adverse impact on Alton revenues. He also stated that despite
competitive pressures, Alton is generating $1 million a month in EBITDA. In the future
Alton will continue to market aggressively. Brenda Bauer, General Manager, stated that
Alton plans to market themselves as the hometown, friendly, easy to get to, familiar
casino.
Member Vickrey asked if employment levels have been reduced due to the loss of
revenue. Ms. Bauer stated that front line employee numbers have not been reduced
although she has reorganized the management staff from 23 to 5.
In response to Member Vickrey, Ms. Bauer stated that Alton’s number one competitive
advantage over Missouri is the absence of a loss limit in Illinois. She stated that this
loss limit advantage will be included in future marketing campaigns.

7

 Member Pyatt moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Alton Gaming
Company (“Alton”) for a one year period commencing in October of 1997. In
renewing this license, the Board orders the following:
1. Alton must adopt measures to improve its communication with Board staff
regarding, in particular, changes in its key persons and other personnel;
2. Argosy is directed to work with staff to immediately develop and adopt an
effective means by which the Argosy Board can require and, if appropriate,
sanction shareholders that fail to comply with regulatory disclosure
requirements as set forth under the Riverboat Gambling Act and Board
rules;
3. Argosy Shareholder Thomas Long is directed to, forthwith, submit to staff
his personal disclosure form and other required information; and,
4. The Board hereby orders Alton and Argosy to cooperate fully with the
Administrator in the investigation of John Connors, the sale of Argosy
stock and the potential violation of Board rule 3000.140 and other Board
requirements. Upon completion of the investigation the Administrator shall
recommend appropriate disciplinary action and draft a complaint for Board
action.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.

8

 Supplier Licenses
BALLY GAMING, INC. (“BGI”) - Rob Woodson, VP Regulatory Compliance for Alliance
Gaming Corporation, Bill Smith, BGI’s Director of New Marketing Development and Rus
Strahan, BGI’s Director of Sales for Eastern United States and Canada, appeared on
behalf of BGI.
Administrator Belletire recommended that BGI be renewed as a supplier of electronic
games and related equipment for one year. He stated that BGI was directed at its last
renewal to take steps to keep to the Board apprised of material changes involving the
company as well as to summit reports and applications on an accurate and timely basis.
Staff detected problems with quarterly submissions. There were also problems with key
persons submitting their Form 1’s in a timely fashion.
Chairman Johnson asked for an explanation on the submission problems. Mr.
Woodson responded that lack of personnel caused delays in filing reports and stated
that an additional three people were hired to handle compliance issues. Mr. Smith
stated that the content of the Quarterly Reports were accurate but the names applied to
the sales were mixed up. Mr. Smith stated that BGI’s computer staff have corrected the
programming problems and reports will be accurate in the future.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Bally Gaming Inc.’s (BGI)
application for renewal of its supplier’s license and issue BGI a restricted license
for a period of one year, expiring October of 1998.
The Board notes that during the past year BGI has submitted deficient quarterly
reports and has exhibited untimeliness in the submission of required information
to IGB staff. In light of this, the Board orders the following:
1. BGI is to provide a written explanation of the measures it will undertake to
assure timely and accurate submission of information to staff.
2. BGI is to conduct a review and reconciliation of the gaming devices sold to
casinos in Illinois.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
PAUL-SON GAMING
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Richard Scott and Jerry Gaylord
West as Key Persons of Paul-Son Gaming Supplies, Inc. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

9

 Occupational Licenses
Member Browder moved that the Board approve 115 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and approve 323 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 3, and deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level 2 and
deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Pyatt seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny the Level 2
Occupational License of Paul Gaxiola. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Rhonda Reed. The complaint seeks to revoke Ms. Reed’s license on the basis of
her 1997 theft conviction. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
Chief Counsel Cusack stated that among the rules approved at the September meeting
included proposed Board rules 3000.405 and 3000.1126. Staff requested that these
rules now be approved for emergency filing. The changes proposed to both of these
rules establishes a standard to be applied in the event a petitioner believes the
Administrative Law Judge assigned to him is bias or has a conflict of interest.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the emergency submission of
Proposed rules 3000.405 and 3000.1126. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator Belletire reported that staff queried owner licensees regarding credit and
check cashing policies involving spouses and addressed measures casinos use to
assist known “problem gamblers”. A report was prepared by Christine Takada which
shows that each owner has a policy but it is not clear if the policy is reinforced through
training.
Chairman Johnson expressed concern that licensees rely on an individual gaming
participant or family member identifying that they have a problem. Chairman Johnson
asked what the gaming establishment does when it identifies that someone has a
problem: Does the licensee revoke credit privileges when they identify a problem? Is
there anything the licensee does before that happens? The Administrator stated that
he would like the industry to respond to these questions.
Member Browder suggested that staff work with the industry to propose a uniform set of
regulations. Chairman Johnson concurred. The Chairman also expressed concern for

10

 uniformity so a competitive disadvantage is not created, where one licensee’s policy is
more rigid or lax than that of others.
Member Vickrey stated that he would like to see all licensees institute a policy that
states when a person identifies that he has a gambling problem that his name be taken
off of all mailing lists. Member Pyatt stated that she would also like staff to look at not
only licensees polices but the training procedures for teaching policies to its employees.
Chairman Johnson noted the proposed meeting dates for 1998. They are: January 27,
February 24, March 17, April 21, May 19, June 16, July 21, September 15, October 20
and December 1. He instructed Board members to review the dates for conflicts and
stated that a final calendar would be set at the December meeting.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

11

 