STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 7, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—via videoconference at 160 N LaSalle Street, Room N-703, Chicago,
Illinois and One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Springfield, Illinois.

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn
Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; and staff members present in Springfield. Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General
Counsel; and staff members present in Chicago.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 9, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the August 9, 2016, meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-CA-15-076
International Association of Firefighters, Local 429/City of Danville

General Counsel Nelson called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge Hamburg-Gal’s
Recommended Decision and Order and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board
declined to do so.

2.

Case Nos. S-CA-15-148 and S-CA-16-014
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 615/City of Harvey (Police Department)

General Counsel Nelson called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge Hamburg-Gal’s
Recommended Decision and Order and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board
declined to do so.

3.

Case No. S-CA-15-149
Charles Jones/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (Children and
Family Services)

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. She
then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal that was filed and Charging Party’s request for appointment of counsel.
After her presentation, she recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s Dismissal and deny the
request of the Charging Party for appointment of counsel. After discussion, Member Coli moved to deny Charging
Party’s request of appointment of counsel. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously by a voice vote. Member Washington then made a motion to accept the dismissal. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.

 4.

Case No. S-CB-15-035
Charles Jones/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
The Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Act.
She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal that was filed and Charging Party’s request for appointment of
counsel. After her presentation, she recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s Dismissal and deny
the request of the Charging Party for appointment of counsel. After discussion, Member Coli moved to deny
Charging Party’s request of appointment of counsel. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously by a voice vote. Member Washington then made a motion to accept the dismissal. Member
Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
VII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was unnecessary.

VIII.

PUBLIC COMMENT

No members of the public were in attendance.
IX.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington moved to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 4th day of October, 2016.

2

 