



I


<ii>

II.



IV.

ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL MEETING

MINUTES OF THE ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL MEETING HELD ON FEBRUARY 19, 2004

OPENING OF MEETING - 11:30 A.M, 320 West Washington Street, Suite
500, Springfield, Illinois

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Joint Panel Chair, Michael Hade, Member of the State Panel;
Charles Hernandez, Member of the State Panel; Rex Piper, Member of the State
Panel; Letitia Taylor, Member of the State Panel; acalyn J. Zimmerman, General
Counsel; Fred Wickizer, Acting Executive Director and staff members. Donald
Hubert, Member of the Local Panel and Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Local
Panel participated by phone.

MINUTES APPROVAL
The minutes of the last meeting were transcribed by a court reporter.

. RULES APPROVAL

The primary agenda was to approve the second notice of the permanent rules to
implement rules amendments as a result of Public Acts 93?0044 and 93?0427.

The General Counsel discussed concerns that had been raised by the Joint
Committee on Administrative rules. The Board added language clarifying that
authorization cards never expire so long as they are timely when the petition is
?led, and that the language that the employee acknowledges by signing the card
that he understands that if the majority of the other employees in a unit sign cards,
the union can obtain certification without an election. That provision is effective
only from the date the Board adopts the rules.

CAR also a provision allowing a limited window for employees to
withdraw cards if they felt harassed or intimidated into signing them. In response
to concerns, the Board drafted a limited provision providing a short
window for employees to withdraw cards. Member Hubert was in favor of the
withdrawal provision being in the adopted rules. However, the limited
withdrawal provision was unfavorable and defeated at the CAR hearing.

General Counsel Zimmerman recommended that the Board approve and adopt as
permanent rules the second notice rules with the two modifications raised by
CAR, but without the Withdrawal provision. Member Taylor made the motion to

 

VI.

approve and adopt the second notice rules. Member Hade seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously.

PROPOSED ADDITION TO 
ROSTER

The Joint Panel considered the proposed addition of Brian E. Reynolds to the
Mediation/Arbitration roster. Member Sadlowski made the motion to approve the
addition to the Mediation/Arbitration roster. Member Hubert seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT

State Panel Member Michael Hade made the motion to adjourn the Joint Panel
meeting. State Panel Member Rex Piper seconded the motion. The motion

passed unanimously.

 

