MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 16, 2001
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 16, 2001, in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory Jones and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom and Robert Mariano.
Also in attendance were: Interim Administrator Thomas Swoik, Deputy Administrators
Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, James Wagner, and Deputy Chief Legal Counsel
Jeannette Tamayo, as well as other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones convened the October 16, 2001 Regular Meeting at 9:45 A.M. in the 3rd
floor Board Conference Room. Member Mariano moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act, and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the
following subject matters:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by
unanimous consent, and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:25 P.M.

 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT
Chairman Jones stated that it did not seem appropriate on the September 14th meeting in light
of the tragic events that took place on September 11th to bid farewell to Sergio Acosta,
former Administrator of the Illinois Gaming Board. Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Acosta
served as Administrator for the Board from July of 1999 to September 14, 2001. Chairman
Jones stated that during that time, Mr. Acosta served the people of Illinois and the Board
with great ability and distinction. Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Acosta’s hard work,
thoroughness, fairness, and dedication helped raise the standard of casino regulation in
Illinois. Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Acosta performed his duties even handedly by
balancing the needs of the Gaming Board’s licensees, the interest of the state, and the public
at large. Chairman Jones stated that he is sure his fellow Board members will join him in
wishing Mr. Acosta well as he returns to the United States Attorneys Office for the Northern
District of Illinois, which is where he originated from. Chairman Jones stated that the Board
would certainly miss Mr. Acosta.
Chairman Jones stated that former Board member Stuart Levine would also be greatly
missed. Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Levine informed the Governor that he was stepping
down because he could no longer serve on the Board while simultaneously serving on the
Illinois Health Facilities Board and numerous other Boards in a public service capacity.
Chairman Jones stated Mr. Levine felt that he could not perform the kind of time
commitment that was necessary for the Board. Chairman Jones stated that the Board
appreciated the kind of service that Mr. Levine has rendered to the Board over approximately
2 ½ years. Chairman Jones commended Mr. Levine for his hard work, dedication, and
willingness to spend the many hours that it took to be on the Board for the last two years.
Chairman Jones commended Mr. Levine for the service that he rendered to the state and to
his fellow Gaming Board members.
Chairman Jones stated that staff is continuing to work on the Self-Exclusion Policy.
Chairman Jones stated that in August, several staff members traveled to Missouri to meet
with their colleagues there to discuss how Missouri operates it Self-Exclusion program.
Chairman Jones stated that staff is hopeful to get the program up and running as soon as all
of the mechanics can be worked out. Chairman Jones stated that on Monday, staff also met
with the Illinois Department of Human Services to further explore how both agencies could
work together on this issue.
NEW BUSINESS ITEMS
PAI GOW POKER – Member Higginbottom moved that the new game, Pai Gow Poker, be
placed on the public agenda for deliberation and discussion. Member Higginbottom
further moved that, the Agenda for open session for today’s meeting be amended to
include the new game, Pai Gow Poker, under Board Policy Items. Member Mariano
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

2

 LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS – Member Mariano moved that the legislative proposals be
placed on the public agenda for deliberation and discussion. Member Mariano further
moved that, the Agenda for open session for today’s meeting be amended to include
legislative proposals under Board Policy Items. Member Higginbottom seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator, Thomas Swoik, publicly thanked all staff for their support during the
last month. Mr. Swoik stated that there are many times staff is asked for clarification about
policies, Board rules, or the act. Mr. Swoik stated that staff has implemented a new
procedure in sending out Policy Interpretations and Action Transmittals. Mr. Swoik stated
that the first one would be coming out within the next week, and relates to which supplies
must be purchased through a licensed supplier. Mr. Swoik stated that the information would
also be available on the Gaming Board’s website.
Board Policy Items

Rule 3000.180 - Weapons on Riverboat – Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette
Tamayo stated that staff is undertaking a review of all of the Board rules and as staff goes
through them on a monthly basis, they would be bringing additional rules for
consideration. Ms. Tamayo stated that staff recognized that the Gaming Board’s Weapon
on Riverboats Rule currently states that security personnel licensed by the Board may
carry weapons. Ms. Tamayo stated that the Board has not licensed such individuals to
carry weapons. Ms. Tamayo stated that this portion of the rule has never been used in the
past, and in clarifying the rule staff thought it would be appropriate to eliminate that
language. Ms. Tamayo requested permission from the Board to post the revised rule as
a draft rule and obtain public comment before it is presented before the Board again and
determine if it should be formally filed through the state’s formal rule-making process.
Ms. Tamayo stated that it would be posted on the website and notices would go out to the
owner licensees.
Chairman Jones asked if there was any particular reason for the request at this time. Ms.
Tamayo stated that in reviewing who is authorized on the riverboat to carry weapons,
staff determined that currently all of the individuals who are appropriately authorized are
law enforcement individuals or a security service. Ms. Tamayo stated that private
individuals and private security guards are not authorized to carry weapons and staff does
not anticipate authorizing them to do so. Ms. Tamayo stated that the revised rule would
make it clear as to who should have a weapon on the riverboat.
Member Rogal moved that the Board direct staff to circulate, upon the Administrator’s
approval, a Draft Rule for public comment prior to seeking the Board’s Approval for
filing the rule for First Notice with the Secretary of State. Member Mariano seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
3

 New Game Request – Pai Gow Poker – Interim Administrator, Thomas Swoik, stated
that staff has had a request to add Pai Gow Poker to their approved games list. Craig
Travers, Casino Queen’s General Manager, presented the Board with a brief overview of
the game.
Pursuant to Board Rule 3000.605, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board authorize
the game “Pai Gow Poker” as an approved game. I further move that the Board direct
the Administrator to include this game and the definition of this game on the list of
Board – approved games and that this game not become authorized for play at any
casino until approved by the Administrator for each owner licensee requesting
authorization to offer this game. Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Legislative Proposals – Ms. Tamayo stated that staff is proposing to submit to the
Governor’s office for consideration, the same legislative proposals that have been
submitted for the past two years. Ms. Tamayo gave the Board a brief overview of what
the legislative proposals would deal with. Ms. Tamayo stated that the proposals entail
provisions that would strengthen the Board’s ownership provisions, ensure that the
application requirements apply to both applications and the transfers of ownership,
eliminate the current authority for a person under the age of 21 to be in the non-gaming
area of the riverboat, safety issues, supplier licensing fee, and provisions that deal with
gaming equipment and supplies.
Public Commentary
Chris Schwartz, Researcher, Service Employees International Union Local 1(SEIU), was
present to discuss the issue of the proposed Emerald Casino in Rosemont. Mr. Schwartz
stated that SEIU’s interest in the issue began several years ago when they first organized
Bomark, a cleaning company. Mr. Schwartz stated that once SEIU began to investigate
Bomark they discovered that there was a network of personal and business connections that
penetrate virtually every corner of the village of Rosemont, which in short, was the same
patterns that the Board found in its investigations of Emerald. Mr. Schwartz stated that the
patterns extend far beyond any one issue and raises serious questions about whether a casino
could ever operate in Rosemont free from controversy. Mr. Schwartz gave the Board a brief
overview on what SEIU has learned about Rosemont. Mr. Schwartz stated SEIU was
pleased with the Board’s ruling on Emerald in January. Mr. Schwartz stated that SEIU is
pleased to see that the new members of the Board have continued to scrutinize the situation.
Mr. Schwartz stated that SEIU hope that the members of the Board continue to apply this
same high level of scrutiny as the issue of the Rosemont Casino nears its resolution. Mr.
Schwartz provided the Board and the public with a website address to keep everyone
apprised of the wide range of issues within the village of Rosemont.

4

 Robyn Block was present to ask the Board for its help in finding more ways for compulsive
gamblers to seek help. Ms. Block shared her experiences as a wife to a compulsive gambler.
Ms. Block stated that help is very difficult to find in the southern part of Illinois. Ms. Block
stated that her husband has called hotlines before, but they weren’t much help in referring
him to a place where he could get help because there really aren’t any places for him to go in
that area. Ms. Block stated that her husband was hospitalized for compulsive gambling
twice, and that during the first hospital visit, there wasn’t any specific gambling addiction
treatments available at that hospital. Ms. Block stated that she has had to fight with insurance
companies that will not recognize addictive gambling as a diagnosis. Ms. Block stated that
she’s aware of the statistics on the number of compulsive gamblers, however, she challenges
those statistics because a gambling addiction is a secret that most people don’t talk about
enough for anyone to gather statistics. Ms. Block stated that her husband had himself banned
from every boat in the state of Illinois, however, a month later they received a letter from the
casino in Joliet asking if Mr. Block would like to be banned from their boat as well. Ms.
Block stated that she was confused by that letter and that she was under the impression that
once you asked to be banned from the boats, that includes all the Illinois riverboats. Ms.
Block requested that the Board really look into these problems. Ms. Block suggested that the
Board talk to some people who have first hand knowledge on what a gambling addiction
does to a family. Ms. Block urged the Board to find some type of financial help for
treatment.
Susan Gouinlock, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association - Ms. Gouinlock
was present to talk about compulsive gamblers and what the ICGA is doing about it. Ms.
Gouinlock stated that according to a 1997 Harvard analysis, about 1 percent of the U.S. adult
population has a problem with gambling. Ms. Gouinlock stated that ICGA is committed to
helping those 1 percent. Ms. Gouinlock stated that on a national level, the casino industry
has spent about $7million dollars over the last several years to fund independent research on
gambling disorders. Ms. Gouinlock stated that casinos are not the cause of pathological
gambling, but they are one of the places where the “rubber hits the road” with regard to the
problem of compulsive gambling in Illinois. Ms. Gouinlock stated that recognizing that fact,
ICGA has developed prevention and education programs targeted at casino customers and
their families. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the Illinois casinos introduce their employees to the
issue of problem gambling during their orientation. Ms. Gouinlock stated that during
orientation, employees learn the signs and symptoms of pathological gambling and how a
problem gambler could find help. Ms. Gouinlock stated that she was encouraged by the
previous public speaker, Ms. Block, because at least her husband was made aware of the
Self-Exclusion programs that the casinos have in place. Ms. Gouinlock stated that formal
training of all employees is reinforced on an annual basis, and in addition posters in public
and employee only areas warn of the dangers of pathological and youth gambling. Ms.
Gouinlock stated that for years Illinois casinos have been offering patrons self-exclusion
programs to help problem gamblers who acknowledge that they have a problem keep
themselves out of the casinos. Ms Gouinlock stated that ICGA does not think that they could
keep a compulsive gambler off of the riverboat, however, they do think that they can do a
very important role in making sure that they underscore the compulsive gambler’s
acknowledgement that he has a problem. Ms. Gouinlock stated that admitting that you have
5

 a problem is a big start towards recovery. Ms. Gouinlock stated that if a patron does not
want to exclude himself but acknowledges that he has a problem, each of the casinos has
programs in place to prevent that patron from obtaining credit in the casino and from cashing
a check, and should not be receiving marketing materials. Ms. Gouinlock stated that ICGA
sponsors 24-hour a day, 7 day a week help line and referral service, which is administrated
by Bensinger Dupont & Associates who are experts in this field. Ms. Gouinlock stated that
the casinos publish the help-line number on their billboards, direct mail to patrons, their print
advertising, and they play it on their telephone on hold messages. Ms. Gouinlock stated that
in an effort to increase the availability of treatment for problem gambling, Illinois casinos
paid to train 810 private mental health counselors in 1999 and in 2000. Ms. Gouinlock stated
that ICGA created a task force, The Illinois Coalition to Curve Problem Gambling, last
summer to bring together the knowledge and resources of people and organizations of varied
perspectives who are all actively addressing problem gambling in Illinois today. Ms.
Gouinlock stated that problem gambling needs to be addressed, and that help needs to be
available to people who need it. Ms. Gouinlock stated that there are plenty of other healthy
patrons out there for the casinos to be successful. Mr. Peter Bensinger, Bensigner Dupont &
Associates, was present to brief the Board on the specifics of the help-line service. Mr.
Bensinger provided the Board with a chart that provided the total number of calls to the
hotline broken down by the time and the location of the calls. The chart also highlighted the
percentage breakdown of the caller referral source, primary gambling reference, age of
callers, gender of callers, and the satisfaction of the callers regarding the hotline.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – PROPOSED INCREASE OF EXISTING CREDIT FACILITY
- Ron Wicks, President of Casino Rock Island, was present to request initial consideration of
increasing Casino Rock Island’s line of credit with Bank One. Mr. Wicks stated that they
would like to increase it from $1.5 million to $3 million, and that the terms and conditions of
the agreement would remain the same.
HARRAH’S CASINO, METROPOLIS – REQUEST TO REMOVE PLAYERS II
RIVERBOAT FROM OPERATION – Mike Crider, General Manager of Harrah’s
Metropolis, was present to request permission to remove the Players II vessel, which is no
longer in service in Metropolis, out of the operation.
Chairman Jones asked if the vessel has been replaced with another vessel, which is now
functioning. Mr. Crider stated that Harrah’s has a larger Coast Guard certified vessel that
was placed in service on September 13th. Mr. Crider stated that Harrah’s has removed all
gaming equipment, slot equipment, and coins from the Player’s vessel. Chairman Jones
asked how things were going since the move. Mr. Crider stated that business has gone up
about 20% and that he is very pleased with the results so far.

6

 HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – JASON STUMP, TECHNICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER
– LEVEL ONE - Karen Wosnack was present on behalf of Jason Stump to request approval
as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve Jason Stump as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet.
Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – CRAIG R. LOVE, GUEST SAFETY MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Karen Wosnack was present on behalf of Craig R. Love to request approval
as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Mariano moved
that the Board approve Craig R. Love as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet. Member Rogal
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO, METROPOLIS – WILLIAM T. SMITH, DIRECTOR OF
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS – LEVEL ONE – Karen Wosnack was
present on behalf of William T. Smith to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve William T. Smith as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino Metropolis.
Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
ALTON BELLE CASINO – CRAIG D. ROBINSON, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
INTERNAL AUDIT – KEY PERSON – Craig Robinson was present on behalf of himself to
request approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Mariano moved
that the Board certify and approve Craig D. Robinson as a Key Person of Alton Gaming
Company. Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Occupational Licensees

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Mariano moved that the
Board approve 402 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 902
applications for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Mariano further moved that, the Board direct the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to the following three applicants for Level 2 and Level 3 licenses,
each of whom previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial
and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut that
recommendation:
1. Lun Charm Ng
2. Clay Holland
3. Trina Slavings
Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Disciplinary Complaints
CARLOS BERRIOS, SUPPORT PERSONNEL – Based on the staff’s investigation and
recommendation, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary
Complaint against Carlos Berrios, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee, for failing to
comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his failure to update and disclose an
arrest based on a warrant for Violation of an Order of Protection.
Member Higginbottom further moved that, the Board revoke Mr. Berrios’ Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member
Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
MARY A. WYCHE, GIFT SHOP EMPLOYEE – Based on the staff’s investigation and
recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint
against Mary A. Wyche, a Level 3 Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the
Act and Board Rules in relation to her forgery of a player’s complimentary form to
purchase merchandise from the gift shop and her theft of fourteen (14) packs of
cigarettes from the gift shop.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board revoke Ms. Wyche’s Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Higginbottom
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINT OF ELGIN RIVERBOAT d/b/a GRAND
VICTORIA CASINO, PETE DOMINGUEZ, SCOTT ENSLIN AND EDWARD
CISOWSKI – For the reasons stated by staff, Member Mariano moved that the Board issue
a Disciplinary Complaint against Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino,
Pete Dominguez, Scott Enslin and Edward Cisowski for violations of the Illinois
Riverboat Gambling Act and the Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules including, but
not limited to, their failure to conduct appropriate and reasonable due diligence in
determining the suitability of associations with other entities and individuals, to review
and ensure compliance with Grand Victoria Casino’s System of Internal Controls, to
prevent the destruction of records, and for other certain security lapses.
Member Mariano further moved that, the Board impose a fine of $7.2 million on Grand
Victoria Casino, suspend Pete Dominguez for a period of 180 days and fine him
personally $5,000 for each violation, suspend Scott Enslin for a period of 30 days, and
revoke the Occupational License Level One of Edward Cisowski and fine him
personally $5,000 for each violation, said fines not to be paid directly or indirectly by
the Owner Licensee, and said actions to take effect twenty-one days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensees fail to file an Answer within that time.
Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.

Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF CASINO ROCK ISLAND - Based on the joint
presentation by counsel and staff's recommendation, Member Higginbottom moved that the
Board accept the proposed settlement agreement and delegate to the Administrator the
authority to execute such agreement. Further, I move that the Board authorize legal
counsel to present the proposed settlement agreement to Administrative Law Judge
Vickie A. Gillio for disposition of this matter in accordance with the terms of the
settlement agreement. Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:50 Member Mariano moved to adjourn. Member Higginbottom seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 