STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 10, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of the Board;
Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post,
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 12, 2012

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the June 12, 2012 meeting. Member Brennwald moved to approve
the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the period
of time from June 1 to June 30, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report
and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-09-225
Countiss Perkins/ Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Bell’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) and stated that the ALJ dismissed the unfair labor practice complaint after
finding that the Board lacked jurisdiction. The ALJ did so after finding that the person whose actions were the core of the alleged
unfair labor practice was neither an agent of, nor a joint employer with, the Respondent. Counsel Post recommended that the
Board reverse the RDO, and the matter be remanded for further proceedings before an ALJ. After discussion, Member Besson
moved to remand and hold the hearing in abeyance until the Seventh Circuit Court issues a decision in a related case or until that
matter was otherwise resolved. Member Coli seconded the motion, the motion passed with four ayes and one nay; Member
Brennwald dissented, with respect to the decision to hold the hearing in abeyance.
Case No. S-CA-12-027
2.
Tri-State Professional Firefighters Union, Local 3165, International Association of Fire Fighters/ Tri-State Fire
Protection District
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post, with the assistance of Counsel Kazanjian, stated that on April 18,
2012, the Executive Director issued a dismissal with an appeal filed by Charging Party. The charge alleged that Respondent
violated Section 10(a) of the Act. General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director's dismissal.
After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept General Counsel Post’s recommendation. Member Coli seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this date. After a short
discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of August, 2012.

 