STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on January 6, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Hade, Member of the Board (participated by telephone-conference);
Rex Piper, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive
Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 9, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the December 9, 2008 meeting. Member Piper
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously,
by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from December 1 through December 31, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-08-062
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Harvey's Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board find no merit to the exclusions sought by the
Employer and decline to take up on its own motion the ALJ's resolution of the "direct" and "adjust
grievances" indicia, as no party filed exceptions thereto. After discussion, Member Piper moved to accept
the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CB-08-003
Michael Hughes/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-08-041
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Harvey
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-06-252
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Decatur
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-UC-08-410
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of
Macoupin/Treasurer, Clerk, and Recorder of Macoupin County
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding either fiscal or legislative matters.
Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not
necessary at this time.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of February, 2009.

2

 