Meeting Summary of the Regular Meeting of
the Chicago Board of Health
CDPH Board Room, 2nd Floor
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Wednesday, February 19, 2014, 9:00 a.m.
Roll Call
Board Members Present:
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak

Board Members Absent:
Carl C. Bell, M.D.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans. Jr., DDS, MPH
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.

For the Department:
Commissioner Bechara Choucair, M.D.

 BOARD OF HEALTH MEETING
DePaul Center, 333 S. State Street
Meeting Summary
February 19, 2014
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:09 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: Due to a lack of quorum, the review and approval of the December 18, 2013
minutes was deferred until next month.
Commissioner’s Report and Healthy Chicago Update: Commissioner Bechara Choucair, M.D.
provided an update of the following items:
 On January 15, City Council moved to regulate e-cigarettes as a tobacco product under Chicago’s
Clean Indoor Air ordinance. Dr. Choucair thanked Dr. Lopez and the members of the Board for
participating in this policy change. The city ordinance passed 45-4. He also mentioned that the
policy team is developing documents to assist with the implementation of the flavored tobacco
ordinance.
 The Board of Health’s flavored tobacco report is available on the Department’s website. In an
effort to encourage other jurisdictions to follow Chicago’s policy approach on flavored
tobacco/menthol, the National African American Tobacco Prevention Network has committed to
sponsor a national webinar.
 The Department earlier this month released Chicago’s Action Plan for Healthy Adolescents. Over
65 strategies are identified to be implemented by CDPH and our community partners. This Plan
serves as a complement to the Department’s Healthy Chicago Plan.
Comments from Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed all guests to the Board of Health meeting. She
provided background on the formation of the Board and its advisory role. Dr. Lopez noted that the past
year has been quite active, with hosting a series of Town Hall meetings on issues related to menthol
cigarettes and more recently leading a press conference with other health professionals to support the ecigarette ordinance. She noted their job as public health officials is to protect the health of kids and adults
and participation in both of these culminating events demonstrated this role.
Presentation of CDPH’s 2013 Media Campaigns: Brian Richardson, Director of Public Affairs
provided a brief background of the activities of the Public Affairs Department. He detailed how public
health affects change through three different areas: policy improvements, partnerships and public
education. He explained that his team focuses on public education through press releases, media
campaigns, direct marketing and community engagement.
Quenjana Adams, Information Coordinator, then provided an overview of the Department’s six 2013
Public Awareness Campaigns. She informed the Board that the main Healthy Chicago campaign ran last
year between April-December and received over 3 million impressions. The average numbers of times
each Chicagoan was exposed to the ad during this period was 111.3 million times.


The “Whooping Cough” campaign was only a week long in April. It was advertised on transit,
newspapers, and included a radio component. The campaign ran during the same period as the

 









National Infant Immunization Week and realized 19 million impressions over the course of the
week.
“Prepare Chicago” was launched in April and continued through August. Its three main messages
included: Prepare Together, Prepare Family, and Prepare Help. This campaign included
television, radio, print, and digital media. It also included events at Chicago’s US Cellular Field
and Solider Field. The “Prepare Chicago” campaign received over 169 million impressions for
Chicago alone and the suburban area received another 144 million impressions.
In August-September, a “Public Health Nurse” campaign was initiated. Due to the smaller media
budget, this campaign’s scope included an outdoor campaign and neighborhood posters. Posters
were posted at gas stations, corner stores and neighborhood CTA transit stops. The posters were
also posted within CTA buses directly behind the driver’s seat and received much positive
feedback. The campaign received over 13 million impressions.
In September-December, instead of engaging in the annual “Get a Flu Shot” campaign, the
Department launched a new flu prevention message: “Your Best Shot”. The Department
partnered with former Chicago Bear’s Coach Mike Ditka, the Chicago Fire, and the Chicago Sky.
The campaign consisted of outdoor advertisements, radio ads and billboards. The campaign
received over 62 million impressions.
From December-Present, the “Burned” campaign has been running within the city. The campaign
highlights the harshness of menthol cigarettes and how the industry targets youth and
communities of color. The campaign included print, transit, and social media, using the hashtag:
#nomorementhol. The “Burned” campaign received over 22 million impressions.
From December-Present, the “Take Pride” campaign has been running within the city of Chicago.
It is the second tobacco campaign of the year and directly focuses on outreach to the LGBT
community. The “Take Pride” campaign received over 12 million impressions in December
alone.

Presentation: On the Right Track: Chicago’s Action Plan for Healthy Adolescents
Suzanne Elder, Program Director, presented Chicago’s Action Plan for Healthy Adolescents, which was
launched at the beginning of February. The Action Plan is a complement to CDPH’s Healthy Chicago
Agenda and identifies 65 strategies to achieve the 40 measurable health targets by 2020. The Action Plan
was developed through a collaborative process of more than 50 health, policy, and education experts, as
well as Chicago youth. Part of this work also included the “Unexpected” campaign to reduce teen
pregnancy and the website http://beyoubehealthy.org/ that provides information on teen health.
Policy/Legislative Update: Kendall Stagg, Director of Policy, shared the following policy updates:







Many jurisdictions have contacted CDPH to learn about our e-cigarette local legislation success.
Los Angeles/Los Angeles County invited us to present on a webinar. Other jurisdictions are
considering replicating our ordinance language, including Philadelphia, San Francisco, along with
17 health departments from Illinois.
The Board of Health’s report on reducing the use of menthol cigarettes by youth will be the
subject of a national webinar later in the year.
The state legislature is in full swing. CDPH will provide a summary of relevant bills at the next
meeting.
The state introduced a bill on e-cigarettes, prompted by media attention that e-cigarettes are not
sold behind the counter.
The Prevention and Public Health Fund has finally been fully funded for 2013, at $1 million.
However, one of its grants, the community transformation grant that provided funding for public
health and policy work, has been discontinued.

 Presentation: Urgent Public Health Threat: Antibiotic Resistance
Stephanie Black, MD, Medical Director, shared that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) identified antibiotic resistance as one of top five public health threats in 2014. Dr. Black
presented information on multi drug resistant organisms (MDRO), specifically Carbapenem-resistant
Enterobacteriaceae (CRE). In 2013, 44 cases of a type of CRE were identified in Cook County, 39 linked
to a cluster at a hospital in Cook County linking back to an endoscopic procedure [endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreaotography (ERCP)]. CDC launched a national campaign called “Detect and Protect” to
ensure facilities conduct comprehensive testing to locate these threats and to implement policies and
procedures to protect the population. CDPH formed a CRE task force, which was recently expanded to
the state level, to promote the multi-drug resistant registry and address areas of: surveillance, reporting
and inter-facility communication, laboratory detection, and infection control measures. The next steps are
to coordinate regional CRE tracking and control efforts, develop lab capacity to assist with CRE
identification, and provide education about CRE prevention to facilities.
New Business: There was no new business.
Old Business: There was no old business.
Public Comments: Ms. Badonna Reingold asked if CDPH was tracking information about mental health
needs within Medicaid expansion. Dr. Choucair stated that City Council approved CDPH’s 2014 budget
that included mental health services till the end of the year. CDPH is also working closely with the state
to monitor the numbers of people enrolling in Medicaid expansion, including CountyCare, and the Health
Insurance Marketplace.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:25 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: March 19, 2014, 9:00 A.M.

 