MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 16, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, December 16, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, December 16, 2008 at approximately 10:00 a.m. the following Board Members
were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
At 10:20 a.m. on Tuesday, December 16, 2008, Member Winkler called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:00 p.m. The Board went
into open session at 1:06 p.m.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of November 10, 2008, Special Meeting of November 14, 2008, Regular Meeting of
November 17 & 18, 2008 and the Special Meeting of November 25, 2008. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of November 14, 2008 and its Regular Meeting of November 18, 2008. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board and staff are working on the investigation related to the 10th
license and the due diligence at this time is incomplete.

 BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS Member Gardner stated that during closed session looking at the Hollywood Casino update, he
had a couple of questions. Member Gardner questioned why in 2006 71.4% spending was with
Illinois vendors and in 2007 that dropped to 58%; why the reduction. Rodney Phillipe legal
counsel to Hollywood casino stated that there was a definite reduction in food and beverage
expenditures in Illinois and a reduction in non-gaming equipment. Non-gaming supplies and
equipment was a $4M swing to 2 vendors due to the fact that low bid contracts were used. The
electric power company needs are also satisfied with a low bid contract, and the check is written
to a company in Iowa. Health care was bid out to Blue Cross but the check goes to the home
office out of the State of Illinois.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski commented on the soft Grand Opening at the Jumer’s Casino Rock
Island’s new site. Mr. Ostrowski stated that members of staff were in attendance.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
Board Meeting Dates –
Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the following dates for Regular Board
Meetings for the 2009 Calendar year.
Monday, January 12th - Closed session
Tuesday, January 13th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, February 10th - Closed session
Wednesday, February 11th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, March 24th - Closed session
Wednesday, March 25th – Closed and Open
Monday, April 13th - Closed session
Tuesday, April 14th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, May 19th - Closed session
Wednesday, May 20th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, June 23rd - Closed session
Wednesday, June 24th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, July 14th - Closed session
Wednesday, July 15th - Closed and Open

2

 Monday, August 24th - Closed session
Tuesday, August 25th - Closed and Open
Monday, September 14th - Closed session
Tuesday, September 15th - Closed and Open
Wednesday, October 14th - Closed
Thursday, October 15th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, November 17th - Closed session
Wednesday, November 18th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, December 15th - Closed session
Wednesday, December 16th - Closed and Open
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Harrah’s Operating Company, Inc. – Motion Clarification
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to section 230(d) of the
Adopted Rules Member Sullivan moved to approve Harrah’s Operating Company’s
(HOC) Proposed Exchange Offer Refinancing Transaction in which HOC proposes
to exchange HOC unsecured notes for new HOC secured notes and cash.
This transaction is subject to the condition that Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino
Cruises and Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet, the two Harrah’s Illinois licensees, will
not be required to guarantee the debt or pledge their ownership licenses as part of
the Exchange Offer. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Par-A-Dice Casino – Loren D. Gill, V.P. and G.M. – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve Loren D. Gill as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of
Vice President and General Manager of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

Hollywood Casino – Wendy L. Kasche, Vice President of Finance and Administration –
Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve Wendy L. Kasche as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the

3

 position of Vice President of Finance and Administration of Hollywood CasinoAurora. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve 29 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 127
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Gilbert Lopez;
Karen E. Chillemi;
Keri L. Duncan;
Lori J. Kinder;
Dzemo Beciri;
Spencer T. Streight;
Tisha Floore;
Brandon B. Coleman; and
Wilford E. Bequette.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Margenres Mitchell – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Margenres Mitchell, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a September 6, 2001 arrest.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Margenres Mitchell’s
occupational license for 3 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ
●

Request for Hearing – Shelly A. McClenhan

4

 Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that Shelly A. McClenhan’s request for a hearing be denied. She has offered
no facts that establish a prima facie case - that she failed to disclose six arrests in her
application. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
●

In Re: The Disciplinary Action of James R. Ripple, DC-08-63
Pursuant to section 3000.1155 of the Adopted Rules, Member Gardner moved for the
adoption and entry of the attached Final Board Order suspending the Occupational
License held by James R. Ripple and setting forth therein our basis for suspension.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

ADJOURNMENT At 1:25 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to reconvene into closed session while Member
Gardner seconded the motion. All Members voted in favor of reconvening to closed session.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 