MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
November 15 and 16, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, November 15, 2010 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois..
On Monday, November 15, 2010 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and
James Sullivan. At 9:37 A.M. on Monday, November 15, 2010, Chairman Jaffe called the
meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings
Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, member Gardner moved that the Board
retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda
and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 11:00 A.M.
On Tuesday, November 16, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 11:05 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:57 P.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 1:08 P.M. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of October 19, 2010. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD MEMBER’S COMMENTS –
Member Moore commended Harrah’s Joliet Casino on the diversity vendor fair that was held on
November 11, 2010.

 ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the December Regular Board meeting will be held on
December 14 and 15, 2010. The Administrator also commended Harrah’s Joliet Casino on the
diversity vendor fair that was held. He also stated that all bids for the RFP for the central
communication system will be due by December 1, 2010.
The Administrator also stated that Western Money Systems, Inc. was removed from the agenda.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Marie Apke – Chief Operating Officer – Bensinger, DuPont Associates

Problem Gambling Services Sponsored by the Illinois Casino Gaming Association Services
provided by Bensinger, DuPont & Associates
BDA provides Help lines in 11 states including Arizona, California, Connecticut, Illinois,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Jersey, North Carolina, West Virginia, and
Virginia.
Provides 3 major functions:
●
●
●

distribute mailings to casino patrons;
Problem gambling help line; and
provide Call to Change program.

Problem Gambling Help Line (800-GAMBLER)
●
●
●
●

Also sponsored by the Illinois Lottery & Illinois Department of Human Services;
40 masters’ level counselors 24/7, Chicago based;
in 2010 spoke to 1100 callers;
●
75% = gambler callers
●
68% = riverboat gambling as primary gambling preference
refer to GA and to 10 state funded treatment programs.

Call to Change
●
●
●
●
●
●

funding through the ICGA; program was piloted in 2005;
telephone based case management program designed for gambler callers who either had
difficulty getting to treatment or who were ambivalent about treatment;
counselors conduct phone assessment and up to 5 sessions;
does it work;
conducted 207 one hour sessions in Illinois – January to October 2010; and
93% in quality assurance calls felt this helped them; 61% felt they had achieved their
goals; either abstinence or reduction in time or $ gambling.

2

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Items for Initial Consideration –
●

MGM Resorts – Note Issuance

Mr. Paul Jenson appeared before the Board.
●

Hollywood Casino – Aurora, Inc. Owner License Renewal

Mr. Rodney Phillipe appeared before the Board with a presentation for license renewal.
Items for Final Consideration –
●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc – Transfer of Shares
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Moore moved
that Pursuant to Section 3000.230(d), (1), (D) of the Adopted Rules, the Board
approve the transfer of 92,869 shares of RIB from the D. James Jumer Trust as
follows:
26,377 shares to James F. Jumer
26,377 shares to Sylvia M. Wicks
26,377 shares to John Albert Jumer
13,738 shares to the Family Trust

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, Inc. – Ownership approval
Based on a review of Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
to approve the following individuals, each of whom is a “minority person” or
“female” as defined under the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and who intend to
indirectly own interests in Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through Casino
Investors, LLC.
1.

Jeanne Rogers Sainati; and

2.

David Ja Koo.

Further Member Sullivan moved that pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Board’s
Adopted Rules to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest
Gaming Holdings, LLC from CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC and High Plains

3

 Gaming, LLC and the issuance of interests to Casino Investors, LLC consistent with
the financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Elgin Riverboat Resort – RBG LP Phase 1 Restructuring Transaction
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to Section
3000.230(d),(1),(D) of the Adopted Rules, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve Elgin Riverboat Resort’s request for approval of the first phase of the RBG
LP restructuring. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Eric D. Jokisch, Level 1 – Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. – Internal
Audit Manager
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Eric D. Jokisch as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position
of Internal Audit Manager for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., in
Metropolis, Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Mark A. Osterhaus, Level 1 – Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. – VP and
General Manager
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Mark A. Osterhaus as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Vice President and General Manager for Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises, Inc., in Metropolis, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Jeanie Marie Glynne, Level 1- Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership – Senior
Internal Auditor
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve Jeanie Marie Glynne as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Senior Internal Auditor for Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership in Joliet, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
●

H. Betti Industries, Inc., d/b/a Betson Enterprises – New Supplier
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve H. Betti Industries, Inc., d/b/a Betson Enterprises for a
supplier’s license, effective November 16, 2010 for a period of one (1) year, expiring
in November, 2011.

4

 Staff further recommends the following be designated and approved as Key Persons
of H. Betti Industries, Inc.:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Chief Operating Officer
Peter Betti;
Robert Betti
Joseph Betti; and
Robert Geschine.

Member Winkler further moved that H. Betti Industries, Inc., d/b/a Betson
Enterprises Supplier’s list include the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

LCD Monitors;
Bill Validators;
LED/CCFL;
Monitors; and
Touchscreens.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s –
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 40 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 82
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.

Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board direct the Administrator to
issue a Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that
staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide
additional information to rebut the recommendation.
1. Maurice D. Hughes;
2. Sterling D. Allen; and
3. Edward T. Harris.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

5

 PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS ●

Robert C. Clark – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore move that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Robert C. Clark, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board fine Robert C. Clark $500.00. Said
fine not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to
take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Dina Nawara – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dina Nawara, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board fine Dina Nawara $250.00 Said fine
not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to take
effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Tracy Marie Galatzer – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Tracy Marie Galatzer, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to
the Board.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board fine Tracy Marie Galatzer $250.00
Said fine not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action
to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless
the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 At 1:56 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 