STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on March 14, 2006

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—320 West Washington Street, Suite 500, Spfld, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; Letitia Taylor, Member of the Board; John Brosnan, Executive
Director; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 14, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the February 14, 2006 meeting. Member Hade
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Taylor seconded. The motion passed unanimously.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the administrative actions for February
1 to February 28, 2006. Executive Director Brosnan distributed his report to the Board. Executive
Director Brosnan noted that from February 1 to February 28, six units were certified through
representation elections; nine units were certified through majority interest petitions; one certification was
issued pursuant to a unit clarification petition; one petition was withdrawn by the petitioner; and one
petition was administratively dismissed by the agency. He concluded his report, surveying the unfair
labor practice case activity from February 1 to February 28, highlighting the twelve complaints for
hearing issued, fourteen charges withdrawn, one administrative dismissal, one deferral, and two
Administrative Law Judge Recommended Decision and Orders issued during that time.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.

S-RC-04-121
Village of Niles and MAP, Niles Police Sergeants, Chapter No. 358

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that the issue was whether the
Employer’s police sergeants are supervisory employees within the meaning of Section 3(r) of the Act or
managerial employees within the meaning of Section 3(j) of the Act. She further explained that the case
turns on disciplinary authority, as police officers are not subject to the preponderance requirement. The
General Counsel discussed the issues she believed needed further clarification from the Administrative
Law Judge and recommended the case be remanded for such clarification. Chairman Gallagher sought to
specify the exact issues that required clarification. The Board engaged in a general discussion of the case,
and at the conclusion of that discussion, based thereon, the General Counsel agreed to include in the
Board decision the specific items requiring clarification. Member Piper made a motion to adopt the
recommendation of the General Counsel. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.

 2.
S-RC-05-194 and S-RC-05-196
City of Delavan and United Auto Workers, Local 974
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case. At issue in this matter is whether a small
community’s chief of police, head of a two-person force, all of whom perform similar duties, can
appropriately be included in the petitioned-for bargaining unit. The General Counsel recommended that
the Board remand the case for consideration of whether the chief of police would, with the advent of
collective bargaining, become a confidential employee, and further recommended that the Board sustain
the Administrative Law Judge's supervisory determination. The Board discussed the unusual
circumstances of the case, including the various predictable consequences based on the options available
to it. After thoroughly discussing the matter and the limits of the remand order, Member Hade made a
motion to adopt the General Counsel's recommendation. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The
Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
S-CA-05-028
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council and City of Carlinville
General Counsel Zimmerman stated that no party had filed exceptions to this decision and asked the
Board whether they wished to review the case on their own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
S-RC-04-039 and S-RC-04-139
City of Harvey and Illinois Council of Police and Sheriffs, Local No. 7 and American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
General Counsel Zimmerman stated that no party had filed exceptions to this decision and asked the
Board whether they wished to review the case on their own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
S-UC-04-013
County of Stephenson/Stephenson County Sheriff/Stephenson County Sheriff’s Merit
Commission/United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America, UAW, Local No. 2261; consolidated with:
S-RC-04-027
County of Stephenson/Stephenson County Sheriff/Stephenson County Sheriff’s Merit
Commission/Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee/United Automobile, Aerospace and
Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, Local No. 2261
General Counsel Zimmerman stated that no party had filed exceptions to this decision and asked the
Board whether they wished to review the case on their own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand presented the current fiscal reports. During her presentation, she noted
that the new printers purchased for the Chicago office had been installed, that she was concluding the
purchase of a new copier for the Springfield office, and that she was awaiting purchase approval for
additional new computers. The Chairman reported on the agency's hearings before the House and Senate
Appropriations Committees and summarized new legislation which might have an impact on Board
operations. Member Taylor made a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss personnel matters, and
Member Piper seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously. Subsequently, the Board voted to
return to open session.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board adjourned the meeting.
2

 