MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
September 14 and 15, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 14, 2010 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, September 14, 2010 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James Sullivan.
At 9:48 A.M. on Tuesday, August 24, 2010, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section
6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Closed Session minutes;
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personnel matters.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. Chairman Jaffe entered the meeting at 10:08 A.M. The Board recessed at 11:56 A.M.
On Wednesday, September 15, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 11:38 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 11:53 A.M. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 1:03 P.M. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 25, 2010. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Board Policy items were withdrawn from the Agenda.
Administrator Ostrowski clarified that Paulson & Co. has a 4.64% ownership of Boyd Gaming
which was misstated at the August, 2010 Regular Board meeting.

 The Administrator also stated that the October Regular Board meeting will be held in Alton,
Illinois at the Alton Argosy Casino. The November Meeting has been changed from November
9 and 10, 2010 to November 15 and 16, 2010.
Administrator Ostrowski stated that on December 30, 2009, the Gaming Board issued a RFP for
the design, implementation and administration of a Central Communications System for video
gaming. On May 28, 2010, the Gaming Board issued a Notice of Award for the Central
Communications System to Scientific Games International (SGI). On August 9, 2010 the
Gaming Board and SGI entered into a written contract.
Preserving the integrity of gaming in Illinois is the Gaming Board’s primary regulatory
responsibility. That responsibility includes not only the regulation of gaming, but ensuring that
the integrity of the regulatory process, including any procurement, is maintained. In evaluating
the price portion of the proposals, miscalculations were made, due, in part, to assumptions made
by the Gaming Board and by vendors that were not uniform and not clarified. Based upon the
foregoing, it is the Gaming Board’s responsibility, and in the best interest of the state of Illinois,
to vacate the award, terminate the contract and rebid this solicitation.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Hollywood Aurora, GM Bob Sheldon

John Finamore, Senior Vice President of Penn National Gaming introduced Bob Sheldon as the
General Manager of the Hollywood Casino – Aurora. Mr. Sheldon addressed the Board and staff
and reviewed his background experience.
Member Gardner asked if Mr. Sheldon is relocating to the Chicagoland area and Mr. Sheldon
stated that he is relocating.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Items for Initial Consideration –
●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. – Proposed Sale

Ron Wicks, President and Gary Beutner, Executive Vice President of the Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. appeared before the Board for Initial Consideration and to introduce the
representatives of Delaware North, the perspective buyers of Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
Mr. William J. Bissett, President of Delaware North, introduced certain individuals associated
with Delaware North and gave a brief summary of the family owned company and the various
entities that are owned by the company.
Member Moore asked Mr. Bissett about the social investment strategy of the companies that are
within the Delaware North ownership.

2

 SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
●

TR BIZ LLC d/b/a TECH RESULTS – License Renewal
●

Member Moore moved pursuant to Section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted
Rules to waive the two-meeting rule required by Section 3000.105(e) of the
Rules to permit TR BIZ LLC to present its request to withdraw its
application. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Member Moore moved pursuant to Section 3000.220(e) to allow TR BIZ
LLC’s request for leave to withdraw its supplier renewal application.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s –
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 18 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 72
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Tomeka McKinley – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Tomeka McKinley, an
occupational licensee, due to her failure to identify a patron in the IGB’s
Self-Exclusion Program.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Tomeka McKinley’s
occupational license for 5 work days without pay with credit for 5 days
already taken. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

●

Ricardo Martinez – Occupational Licensee

3

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Ricardo Martinez, an
occupational licensee, due to his failure to identify a patron in the IGB’s SelfExclusion Program.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Ricardo Martinez’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
●

Kimberley Ann Watkins – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Kimberley Ann Watkins,
an occupational licensee, due to her conviction of Theft By Deception.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Kimberley Ann
Watkins’ occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21)
days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS ●

In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Bridgett Redditt, DC-10-05
Pursuant to section 3000.1155 of the Adopted Rules, Member Gardner moved for the
adoption and entry of a Final Board Order revoking the Occupational License held
by Bridgett Redditt.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

At 1:29 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 