October 11th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:02 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “10/11/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agend

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kev
Andre Youngblood, Johnny Miller, (Alejandro Silva Absent).
PUBLIC COMMENT: None

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board M
September 13th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with fiv
votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board recessed into Executive Session, pursuant to Sections 2(C) 2, and
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act. Upon return to Open Session, the Board moved, secon
approved by unanimous vote, the following: Board Agenda Items 5-A, 5-B, 5-C, 5-D, and
acquisitions of permanent air rights easements, or acquisition of properties and utility relo
expenses, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project, as discussed in Executive Session.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Kevin Irvine presented
report. The committee reviewed the monthly report on Finance and approved the September 13th
2017 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other Committee agenda items
on the Board agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recomme
for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved October 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-97 through 017-106.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is availableon-lineat www.transitchicago.com
, “AboutCTA”, “BoardPresentations”,
October 11th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.

NEW BUSINESS: At the beginning of the meeting, President Carter honored some of the CTA’s lon
serving employees.

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the October 11
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 