MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 29, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Thursday, September 29, 2005 Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler, and James Sullivan.
The meeting convened at 10:05 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:40 P.M.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the Board would hold its October regular
Board meeting on October 14, 2005 in Chicago.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a Special meeting on October
18th in Rock Island, at which time the Board would tour Casino Rock Island. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board would travel to Peoria on October 19th to tour
Par-A-Dice Casino.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced the agenda items for today’s (September 29, 2005)
meeting that were tabled for a future meeting.

 Owner Licensee Items
Penn National Gaming Inc. – Request to Purchase Argosy Gaming Company – Key Person –
Cid Froelich was present on behalf Penn National.
Chairman Jaffe stated that he knows that it has been a long journey for Penn National,
Argosy, and the Board. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board has worked very diligently on
this issue. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board appreciates the fact that Penn National
understood the Board’s concerns and worked with the Board as best as it could. Chairman
Jaffe stated that the Board has come to an agreement that Penn National could live with and
the people of the State of Illinois could live with.
Member Gardner offered the following resolution:
WHEREAS, on November 3, 2004, Penn National Gaming, Inc. (“Penn”),
and Argosy Gaming Company (“Argosy”) entered into an Agreement and Plan
of Merger;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act (the “Act”) and
the Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules (the “Rules”), Penn National
submitted an application in order to receive the Illinois Gaming Board’s
(“IGB”) approval to merge with Argosy and acquire ownership of Empress
Casino Joliet (“Empress”) and Alton Belle Casino (“Alton”);
WHEREAS, Penn is desirous of expediting the closing of the Merger;
WHEREAS, in exchange for the IGB’s immediate approval of the Merger,
Penn requests IGB approval to sell the Empress and Alton, pursuant to terms
incorporated in the Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the IGB approves the Merger of Penn and Argosy;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Penn and the IGB have entered into the
Penn-Argosy Merger Approval Agreement, a written agreement describing the
terms under which Penn shall divest its ownership of the Empress and Alton;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board delegates authority to the
Administrator to execute the Penn-Argosy Merger Agreement.

2

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Penn shall comply with all provisions
of said Agreement.
Member Gardner moved to adopt the foregoing resolution.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board approve Penn National Gaming, Inc.’s
request for approval of its pending financing and delegate to the Administrator, under
Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of the
appropriate documents. I move that the Board approve the $2,725,000,000 Credit
Agreement among Penn National Gaming, Inc., the Subsidiary Guarantors party
thereto, the Lenders party thereto, the LC Lenders party thereto, Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as
Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.
and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents, Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas, as Swingline Lender, Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent,
and Calyon New York Branch, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and Bank of
Scotland, as Co-Documentation Agents and approve Alton Gaming Company and
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation as subsidiary guarantors under Penn National
Gaming, Inc.’s existing indebtedness.
Further, the Board designates and approves the following entities, positions and
persons as Key Persons of Alton Gaming Company and Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation upon execution of the merger:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Penn National Gaming, Inc.;
Argosy Gaming Company, Inc.;
Director(s) of Alton Gaming Company;
Director(s) of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation;
President of Alton Gaming Company;
President of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation;
Executive Vice President of Operations of Penn National
Gaming;
8. Regional Director/Internal Audit – Midwest Region;
9. Peter M. Carlino; and
10. Kevin G. DeSanctis.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call.
Casino Queen, Inc. – Barge Construction Project – Tom Monahagn, General Manager, was
present on behalf of Casino Queen to provide an update on Casino Queen’s proposed new
gaming facility and to request initial consideration of its request to relocate off of the river
and the financing of the new facility. Mr. Monahagn stated that Casino Queen has submitted
materials to the Board and Staff.

3

 Jeff Watson, Attorney, was present on behalf of Casino Queen to discuss the financing of
project.
Casino Rock Island – D. James Jumer – Estate Planning – Transfer of Shares to James A.
Jumer, Sylvia M. Wicks, John A. Jumer – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of
Mr. Jumer to request initial consideration to transfer some of his shares in Rock Island to his
children. Ms. More stated that Mr. Jumer has submitted documents to Staff for their review
and would be in touch with Staff to address any concerns that they may have.
Ms. More stated that Casino Rock Island looks forward to the Board’s visit next month to
tour the casino and discuss its expansion and relocation.
Member Gardner requested that Ms. More relay to Casino Rock Island that the Board is
anxious to see if they have achieved an agreement with their neighbor – the Big Island River
Conservancy District.
Member Winkler stated that the Board has received two letters from ChrisTina Kost, Big
Island River Conservancy District, stated that they have not received the information that
they requested from Casino Rock Island.
Ron Wicks, General Manager, Casino Rock Island, stated that Casino Rock Island has been
in contact with Ms. Kost and has provided her with the information that she requested. Mr.
Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island has invited Ms. Kost to the site to do a walk through
now that the reclamation part of the project is completed. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock
Island would make sure that Ms. Kost has had an opportunity to come out to the site by the
time the Board visits the casino.
Par-A-Dice – William S. Boyd – Estate Planning – Transfer of Shares to Samuel J. Boyd,
Marianne E. Johnson, and William R. Boyd – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf
of Mr. Boyd to request initial consideration to transfer some of his shares in Par-A-Dice to
his children as part of his estate plan. Ms. More stated that documents have been provided to
Staff for their review and that she would be in touch with Staff to address any concerns that
they may have.
Supplier Licensee Item
PDS Gaming – License Renewal – Donna More was present on behalf of PDS Gaming for
license renewal.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve the Supplier’s license of PDS Gaming Corporation for a term of 4 years
commencing retroactively to December 2004.

4

 PDS is granted approval to provide the following gaming equipment to Illinois licensees:
●

Financing and leasing options of electronic gaming devices and sell
and/or lease reconditioned electronic gaming devices.

●

Parts for electronic gaming devices authorized for sale by the
Administrator pursuant to the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Illinois Gaming Board Adopted Rules.

●

Additionally, each and every used electronic gaming device offered to
Illinois casinos must be first individually tested by an independent
gaming laboratory.

Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board certify and approve the following positions and people as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chief Executive Officer;
Chief Operating Officer/President;
Johan P. Finley; and
Peter D. Cleary.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licenses Approvals & Denials
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 44 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 188 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to the following three applicants for Level 2 & 3 licenses, each of whom previously
received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or
provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1. Victor Salee;
2. Christine Adams; and
3. Pauline Pollard.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

5

 Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
•

John Chandler, Cashier

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against John Chandler, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to his admission that he stole money from his
employer, Harrah’s Joliet Casino by underreporting his admission ticket sales and
retaining the unreported revenue.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Mr. Chandler’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 2:00 P.M. Member Gardner moved to reconvene to closed session. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 3:00 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

6

 