MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
APRIL 27, 1999
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 27, 1999, in the auditorium on the 5th floor of the
State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and Members William B. Browder, Stuart P.
Levine, Gayl S. Pyatt, and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Robert F. Casey, Deputy Administrators Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, Roger
Shiels, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public
and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Pyatt moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the
following subject matters:
Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending Litigation and Matters Involving Probable Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:15 p.m.
Chairman Johnson reported that Mr. Stuart Levine, newly appointed as a member of the Board, attended the closed
session meeting. The Chairman stated that Mr. Levine is a non-practicing attorney involved with civic affairs in the
Chicago area. Mr. Levine, once confirmed by the Senate, will serve for a term ending July 1, 2002.

 Board Minutes
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed sessions of the March 16,
1999 regular meeting. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed sessions of the March 23,
1999 and April 1, 1999 special meetings. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Johnson welcomed the new Administrator, Robert Casey. He stated that Mr. Casey comes to the Gaming
Board with a wealth of government experience. Mr. Casey was Kane County State’s Attorney for several years and
served two terms as an Illinois State Representative. He was also a member of the State of Illinois Legislative
Redistricting Commission, served as Special Counsel to the Fox Valley Airport Authority, and was Chairman of the Motor
Vehicle Review Board.
The Chairman thanked Michael Belletire for his tremendous contribution during his four year tenure as Administrator.
The Board wished Mike well in his future endeavors.
Chairman Johnson, in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, stated that Board members and senior staff will be
gathering at the private home of a staff member this date for a farewell dinner for Mr. Belletire. The gathering is
exclusively for social purposes, no business will be discussed or conducted.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO ROCK ISLAND (“CRI”) – Donna More and Ron Wicks, representing CRI, requested renewal of its owner’s
license.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“AGC”) – Don Malloy, representing AGC, requested initial consideration of a proposed
refinancing of Argosy’s current outstanding indebtedness.
Ms. Cusack stated that staff has received preliminary documents related to Argosy’s proposed refinancing and that staff
is still analyzing and evaluating the impact of the financing on the licensee.
Chairman Johnson commented that one of the primary purposes of the refinancing is to reduce AGC’s borrowing cost. In
addition, AGC is proposing to create a financing structure that will raise or permit AGC to draw a larger amount than the
current debt financing. The Chairman stated that primary use of the debt structure will be to repay and retire the old debt
structure but there will be availability of funds within that debt structure. Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Malloy to explain
the plans for those funds. Mr. Malloy stated that part of AGC’s plans include updating the Alton Belle facility and the
remainder will be used for future projects that have not been defined.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORTS (“ERR”) – Donna More, representing ERR, requested initial consideration for a waiver of
Board rule 3000.510 to remain dockside while conducting an underwater hull inspection. Ms. More stated that Specialty
Diving, Inc. will be performing the work.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) – Donna More, representing PGC, requested initial consideration of an
amendment to its bank credit agreement. Currently under the agreement all of PGC’s significant properties are pledged
as collateral. The only property not currently pledged is the Par-A-Dice vessel. As part of the re-negotiation the banks
have asked that the vessel also be pledged. Ms. More stated that documents will be forthcoming.
Chairman Johnson advised Ms. More that if staff does not have sufficient lead-time to evaluate the documents the
request will be held over to the June meeting.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA (“HCA”) – Ed Pratt and Buz LaFrano, representing Hollywood Casino Corporation
(“HCC”) and HCA requested final approval for the refinancing at the parent company level and related subsidiary
financings.
Mr. Pratt stated that HCC is refinancing all of HCC’s primary current indebtedness and raising additional funding. Some
of the additional funding ($37 million) is to be used to purchase the management contracts from the current bondholders.
Another $40 million will be used to build a new vessel or barge for Aurora.

2

 Mr. Pratt stated that part of the process of purchasing the management contracts is that HCA has to expense off
the purchase which affects the net worth of HCA and HCC. Mr. LaFrano, Vice President of Finance for HCC,
stated that the documents submitted to staff showed that $37 million for the purchase of the contracts would be
written off; and, for accounting purposes could not be recognized as an asset. For tax purposes the same
situation applies, you cannot write up the basis for those assets. In the original analysis prepared, HCC did not
show a tax deduction for Aurora because under the tax sharing agreement with HCA it would follow the tax
rules and there would be no deduction. HCC can amend the tax sharing agreement with HCA and allow for a
deduction for the $37 million. This will allow HCA to book the portion of the asset that HCA would otherwise
not have been able to book had HCC not amended the tax sharing agreement. This type of change to the tax
sharing agreement would result in a savings of roughly $13 million. It would reduce HCA’s write off to about
$24 million which would then eliminate the proposed negative shareholder’s equity.
Chairman Johnson asked if it would be a problem to put a limitation on dividend distributions between HCA and
HCC until there was an equity level acceptable to the Board. Mr. Pratt stated that any limitation that is placed on
the transaction other than a normal flow of business is going to diminish the collateral package to the
bondholders. From the bondholders perspective Mr. Pratt couldn’t say whether it kills their ability to raise the
financing but stated it would be very costly. To restrict the flow of funds would restrict the collateral for the
bondholders.
Mr. LaFrano stated that the reason the limitation on dividends would be detrimental to the new issuance is that
there is no guarantee of the new bonds from Aurora. The bondholders can only look to the size of the intercompany note for their total collateral given the $40 million that is going towards a vessel, $37 million going
into the contracts and the original $30 million on the inter-company note. Their limitation on collateral is about
$108 million and the bondholders will be unsecured for any amount over this figure.
In summary, the commitment is that HCC will create a new tax asset (new riverboat or dockside facility) for HCA.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Pratt to talk about future plans at HCA for a new facility. Mr. Pratt stated that HCA is
working on two plans for expansion. Depending on how the legislature votes HCA wants to be prepared to
develop a dockside facility and/or a new larger vessel to replace the City of Lights I. HCA plans to build the
larger vessel either way.
Ms. Cusack reported that the proposed refinancing reduces the cost of capital to HCC, provides for the
purchase of the management agreement, and will provide for significant capital contributions to the HCA
facility. Staff recommends the approval of the three pieces to the financing.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Hollywood Casino Corporation’s (“HCC”) request to refinance its
currently existing primary indebtedness with approximately $350 million of senior subordinated notes. In conjunction with
the approval of this financing, the Board also approves the terms of the intercompany notes between HCC and
Hollywood Casino Aurora (“HCA”) and the pledging of the stock of HCA to the indenture trustee for the proposed $350
million notes. These approvals are subject to the Administrator’s review and approval of the final documentation for
these transactions. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Patt Medchill, representing HCA, requested approval of James LaPorte as the Director of Slot Operations.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve James LaPorte as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Hollywood
Casino Aurora. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO CRUISES JOLIET – Jim Rankl, representing Harrah’s, requested approval of Jacqueline
Hutchinson as Director of Slot Operations.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Jacqueline Hutchinson as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Harrah’s
Casino Cruises Joliet. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY – Don Malloy, representing AGC, requested approval of Harold Prange as Casino Manager
and James Gulbrandsen as a Key Person.
3

 Member Browder moved that the Board approve Harold Prange as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee and James
Gulbrandsen as a Key Person of Alton Gaming Company. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensees
ARISTOCRAT – Donna More, representing Aristocrat, requested approval of Desmond Randall as a Key Person.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Desmond H. Randall as a Key Person of Aristocrat, Inc. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve 114 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 195
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level 2 and 3
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Chairman Johnson deferred the issue concerning Barbara Anop to a future meeting.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board deny the hearing requests submitted by Laura Vaughn and Christian Rogers.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

4

 Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Correy Barnes and revoke his
occupational license. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Board Policy Items
RULEMAKING – Ms. Cusack stated that staff recommends an amendment to Board rule 3000.660 to assure the security
of any alternative memory storage media and provide for internal memory that stores information traditionally captured
on the electronic mechanical hard meters.
MemberVickrey moved that the Board authorize the proposed amendment to rule 3000.660 to be sent to all owner
licensees, affected suppliers, and an independent testing laboratory for review and comment; and, if no substantive
changes are made as a result of these comments, I further move that the Board authorize the Administrator to initiate a
rulemaking by filing the proposed amendment with the Secretary of State for publication of first notice in the Illinois
Register. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Monthly Performance’s Report
Deputy Administrator Swoik summarized the Adjusted Gross Receipts monthly statistical report for March 1999. Mr.
Swoik noted that the March 1999 AGR ($104.6 million) exceeded February 1999 AGR by nearly $8 million. He reported
that this is the third largest monthly AGR in Illinois history. It also marks the first time since the start up of riverboat
gaming in Indiana that Illinois broke $100 million.
Chairman Johnson asked what Mr. Swoik attributes the increase to. Mr. Swoik stated that staff has been watching the
statistics for the past year and AGR has slowly been on the rise. He noted that admissions have not increased nor are
patrons staying as long. Mr. Swoik also attributes the increase to a good economy.
In response to Chairman Johnson, Mr. Swoik reported that Indiana’s AGR has increased and Illinois’ share of the market
has increased slightly.
PERSONNEL ISSUE
Member Vickrey moved WHEREAS at the April 1, 1999 special meeting, the Board affirmed the positions and
organizational responsibilities of senior staff members; and
WHEREAS the position and responsibilities of the public information officer were inadvertently omitted.
NOW THEREFORE, I move that the Board affirm Marianne Floriano as the Public Information Officer for the
Board.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved that the Board stand adjourned.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:00
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

5

 