STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on August 14, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Paul S. Besson, Member of the State Panel; James Q.
Brennwald, Member of the State Panel; Michael G. Coli, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington,
Member of the State Panel; Robert M. Gierut, Local Panel Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the
Local Panel; Richard Lewis, Member of the Local Panel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post,
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the July 10, 2012 meeting. Member Coli moved
to approve the minutes. Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously,
by a voice vote.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS

The Board considered the application of Mr. Howard Gopman for addition to the agency's
mediation/arbitration roster. The Board discussed Mr. Gopman's experience and background in light of the
qualifications set out in Section 1230.220 of the Board's Rules and Regulations (Rules), 80 Ill. Admin.
Code §§1200-1240. At the conclusion thereof, Member Besson made a motion to add Mr. Gopman to the
Board's mediation/arbitration roster. Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded the motion. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

LEGISLATIVE/FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report, reviewing
in detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned
various aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to
discuss personnel/hiring matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Washington seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member
Besson made a motion to leave executive session. Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson then made a motion to return to open
session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of September, 2012.

2

 