Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
May 25, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, May 25, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 1st floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois immediately
following its Regular Meeting - Riverboat. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy,
Members Hector Alejandre, Steve Dolins, Thomas Dunn and Member Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of April 21, 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by
roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT/COMMENTS –
Chairman Tracy read a letter for a licensee, commending staff on their professionalism and a job
well done.
ADMINISTRATOR'S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 6,091 locations with 26,736 VGT's.
Proposed Rulemaking – Sheera Hobfoll
Member Dunn moved to amend the Video Gaming Rules by creating Rule 595, and amending
Rules 615 and 715 by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATORS
Initial Licenses
Skybox Gaming Group, LLC
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board issue
a Terminal Operator license to Skybox Gaming Group, LLC. for a term of one year, expiring
in May, 2018, as the applicant has demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

 Illinois Interactive Gaming, LLC
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
deny the Terminal Operator license application of Illinois Interactive Gaming, LLC, as it has
failed to demonstrate its qualifications and suitability for licensure, and to authorize the
Administrator to issue a notice of denial. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation, and my review of materials
provided to the Board, I move that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses
for a term of one year, expiring in May 2018:




Illinois Gaming Investors, LLC
LZ Entertainment, LLC, and
Tap Room Gaming, LLC

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation, and review of materials provided
to the Board, that the Board renew Hyperactive Gaming, LLC's Terminal Operator License for
a term of one year, expiring in May 2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed with a 4-0 vote with Member Dolins abstaining from the vote.
Member Alejandre moved to renew the Terminal Operator License of Gaming &
Entertainment Management – Illinois, LLC for a term of one year, retroactive to April 2017,
expiring in April 2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS & SUPPLIERS
License Renewals
Novomatic Americas Sales LLC – Renewal of Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier
Licenses
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
renew the Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier licenses of Novomatic Americas Sales LLC
for a period of one year, expiring in May 2018. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve (43) Terminal Handler licenses and (1) Technician license, and authorize the
Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:
1. Andrele Williams
2. Jessie N. Tucker
3. Timothy Evitts
4. Kevin D. Bruens
5. Chad Michael Wendling
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals - (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal Handlers who were licensed or renewed in May
2016, and who have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fees and
remained in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve 70 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses,
for a period of one year, expiring in May 2018, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:
 Darla Reiter d/b/a The Sound Bar
 PHASE IV – D, Inc. d/b/a TRUDY'S CAFÉ CASH ISLAND
 Omega Bar & Grill, LTD. d/b/a Omega Bar & Grill LTD
 MORT'S TAP, INC. d/b/a MORT'S TAP
 Smoking Grill & Pizzeria LLC d/b/a Smoking Grill & Pizzeria
 El Tollo Corporation d/b/a Little Mexico Restaurant; and
 Symerton Tap, LLC d/b/a Symerton Tap LLC
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals - (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve the renewal of licenses held by Retail Establishments, Truck Stop Establishments, and
Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or renewed in May 2016, that have
properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance

3

 with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules, and authorize the Administrator to issue
notices of non-renewal to:
 Cousin Vinny's, LTD d/b/a Cousin Vinny's; and
 Zupa, Inc., d/b/a Zupa
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Dolins moved that based on information provided to the Board establishing that
applicant's owner is not statutorily ineligible, moved that the Board rescind its denial, and grant
an establishment license to JRW Electrical Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Bottom's Up on 7th.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, moved that
the Board deny the requests for hearing submitted by:




100 PROOF GAMING LLC d/b/a THE HOT SPOT;
Mazzarisi Gaming Inc. d/b/a Maria's Gaming Lounge; and
Julia L Reaves d/b/a ED & MILLIES TAVERN

since each request fails to establish a prima facie case for a hearing. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
grant JRAY'S BAR & GRILL, INC. d/b/a Tortuga's Bar & Grill leave to reapply for a retail
establishment license. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board grant
Red Carpet Ent Inc. d/b/a Red Carpet Lounge leave to reapply for a retail establishment
license. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet the Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the retail establishment licenses of:



Carlos Tequila Grill Corp. d/b/a Carlos Tequila Grill; and
BEVERLY BRINK, INC. d/b/a THE OFFICE

4

 for failing to maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said actions to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board issue
a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of VILLAGE GARDEN
RESTAURANT, INC. d/b/a VILLAGE GARDEN RESTAURANT for failing to properly
monitor video gaming terminals on its premises, this action to take effect 21 days from the date
of service of the Complaint, unless a $5,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within
that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Failure to Update RTT System/Unauthorized Relocation of VGTs
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, move that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining Terminal Operator Illinois Video Gaming, Inc.,
$5,000 for failing to obtain the Administrator's prior approval before moving and installing video
gaming terminals on its premises, this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Remove Inoperable VGTs
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff's investigation and recommendation, issue a
disciplinary complaint fining terminal operator Illinois Gaming Investors, LLC d/b/a Prairie
State Gaming, LLC, $2,500 for failing to remove video gaming terminals from a location under
rehab; this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service unless an Answer is properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Comply with Section 25
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff's investigation and recommendation, to issue a
disciplinary complaint fining Gaming & Entertainment Management – Illinois, LLC
$100,000 for failing to pay a licensed establishment 50% of after-tax profits as required under
Section 25 of the Video Gaming Act; and ordering the economic disassociation of Robert Nader,
this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service unless an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 Rescission of Nonrenewal
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff's investigation and recommendation, to rescind the
July 2016 nonrenewal of the establishment license of T&G Inc. d/b/a All Star Bar & Grill, and
grant renewal of the establishment license retroactive to July 2016, expiring in July 2017.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Settlements of Disciplinary Complaints
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s recommendation and the information provided
by the establishment license, to delegate to the Administrator the authority to enter into a
settlement agreement with, and to administratively dismiss the complaint against MI
CHAPALA INC. d/b/a Mi Chapala (DC-V-17-39), and to provide the settlement agreement to
the administrative law judge for disposition. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OTHER MATTERS
Member Alejandre moved that the Board adopt the Administrative Law Judge's recommended
decision in DC-V-16-53 in its entirety, and enter a final order fining 4 Play Pub N' Grub, LLC
d/b/a Route 12 Bar & Grill, $5,000 for serving alcohol to a minor, and allowing the minor
access to the location's Video Gaming Terminals. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:54 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 