STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 8, 2018
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.— at 160 N. LaSalle Street, Room S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Christopher Glynn, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Kimberly Stevens, Executive Director; Helen Kim, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal,
Associate General Counsel and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD December 11, 2018

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the December 11, 2018 meeting. Member Samolis moved to
approve the minutes. Member Glynn seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

REVIEW OF PROPOSED WRITTEN DECISIONS AND ORDERS
1. Case No. S-CA-17-060
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services and American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

Acting General Counsel Kimberley Stevens called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed
written decision. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-CA-18-085
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee and Village of Sparta
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-CA-17-054
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services (Human Services)

General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
2. Case No. S-CA-17-056
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services (Corrections)
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
3. Case No. S-CA-17-099
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services (Natural Resources)
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.

 4. Case No. S-CA-17-100
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services (Natural Resources)
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
5. Case No. S-UC-17-068
Int’l Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 371 and City of Colona
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
6. Case No. S-CA-18-120
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and City of Aurora
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
7. Case Nos. S-CA-17-067 and S-CA-17-089
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Acting General Counsel Kimberly Stevens called and presented the issues of the case to the Board. After discussion,
Member Samolis moved to accept the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended Decision and Order. Member Glynn
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
8. Case No. S-CA-18-164
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police and Village of Riverdale
General Counsel Kim called and presented the issues of the case to the Board. After discussion, Member Glynn moved
to affirm the Executive Director dismissal. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

PUBLIC COMMENT

No members of the public sought to make comments.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Samolis moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of January 2019.

2

 