STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on October 4, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Acting Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John
F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD September 13, 2011

Mr. Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the September 13, 2011 meeting. Member Sadlowski moved to approve the
minutes of the September 13, 2011 meeting. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice
vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Mr. Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the period of time from
September 1 to September 30, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-11-006
William and Laura Foster/Chicago Transit Authority

Mr. Gierut indicated that he was recusing himself from consideration of the matter in the above mentioned case. General Counsel
Post called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on January 24, 2011, and an appeal had been filed.
General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal and recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s
dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson made a motion to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Sadlowski
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-11-054
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of Cook
Mr. Gierut called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a deferral to arbitration on July 26, 2011, and an appeal
had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the
Executive Director’s deferral to arbitration because the Executive Director acted in accordance with the Board's deferral
policy. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept General Counsel’s recommendation to affirm the Executive
Director’s deferral to arbitration. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan noted that there was no fiscal report for this meeting. Executive Director Brosnan then updated the
Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for
executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Acting Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of November, 2011.

 