STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 13, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD April 15, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the April 15, 2014 meeting. Member Besson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-14-001
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ County of McHenry and Recorder of Deeds of
McHenry County

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present the issues of the case. Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on March 6, 2014,
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Deena Sanceda issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) recommending
that the Board dismiss a petition filed by Service Employees International Union, Local 73, (Petitioner) seeking to
represent the titles Recording Specialist, part-time Recording Specialist, and Record/Office Clerk employed by the
County of McHenry and Recorder of Deeds of McHenry County (Employer). After her presentation she
recommended that the Board affirm the ALJ’s RDO dismissing the petition. After discussion, Member Brennwald
moved to accept the ALJ’s recommendation. Member Besson seconded the motion and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote
2.
Case No. S-CA-11-095
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police/ City of Naperville
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases. General Counsel Post stated that in all
of the following Gubernatorial designation cases, exceptions were filed by the Labor Organization, American

 Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31. Except where otherwise noted, he recommended
that the Board affirm the RDO.
Case No. S-DE-14-232 (Children and Family Services)-General Counsel Post noted that exceptions had also been
filed by Employee-Objector Raymond Gates. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-233 (Pollution Control Board)-General Counsel Post recommended that the Board reject the
RDO and dismiss the petition. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it. Member Brennwald dissented.
Case No. S-DE-14-234 (Healthcare and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-235 (Healthcare and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-236 (Healthcare and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-239 (Public Health)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-240 (Employment Security)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-241 (Employment Security)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-242 (Department of Lottery)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-243 (Department on Aging)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-244 (Healthcare and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-245 (Criminal Justice Information Authority)-After discussion, Member Washington moved
to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Consolidated Case Nos. S-DE-14-246 and S-DE-14-248 (Department of Corrections)-After discussion, Member
Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-249 (Central Management Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-250 (Department of Insurance)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-253 (Commerce & Economic Opportunity)-After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to
accept the RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-256 (Department of Employment Security)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to
accept the RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-14-076
Lori Crafton/ State of Illinois (Department of Corrections)
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
March 17, 2014, the Executive Director dismissed the charge filed by the Charging Party, alleging that the
Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. General Counsel Post then presented and discussed the Charging
Party’s appeal. After discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. Member
2

 Washington made a motion to affirm the dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

5.
Case No. S-CB-14-010
Larreese Bennett/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
March 26, 2014, the Executive Director dismissed the charge filed by the Charging Party, alleging that the
Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Act. General Counsel Post then presented and discussed the Charging
Party’s appeal. After discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. Member
Washington made a motion to affirm the dismissal. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Washington made a motion to leave open session. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Besson made a motion to go into executive session pursuant to
Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2) (2012), to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully
closed under this Act, whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the
minutes as mandated pursuant to Section 2.06, 5 ILCS 120/2012. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a
motion to leave executive session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member Washington seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Once returning to open session, Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the November 18, 2013 and
February 11, 2014 executive session meeting. Member Brennwald moved to approve the executive session minutes.
Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Hartnett then
called for a motion to keep the executive session minutes closed. Member Besson moved to keep the executive
session minutes of November 18, 2013 and February 11, 2014 closed. Member Washington seconded. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 3rd day of June, 2014.

3

 