MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
August 24 and 25, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 24, 2010 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, August 24, 2010 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James
Sullivan. At 9:40 A.M. on Tuesday, August 24, 2010, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Closed Session minutes;
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personnel matters.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 12:10 P.M.
On Wednesday, August 25, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 11:39 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:15 P.M. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 1:03 P.M. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 14, 2010. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approved the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of July 20, 2010. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes – January 2010 – June 2010
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve to make available for public inspection all
portions of closed session minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from January, 2010
through June, 2010 for which the need for confidentiality no longer exists. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski gave an update on video gaming. Two RFPs were issued; one for an
independent consultant which was awarded to Gaming Laboratories; and a second RFP for a
central communication system; after the protest process the contract was awarded to Scientific
Games International. As of this date, the Gaming Board has increased staffing and will continue
to do so for video gaming and the 10th casino in Des Plaines, Illinois. Mr. Ostrowski also gave an
update on the construction progress of the new casino and the progress on the completion of the
Empress Casino Joliet pavilion.
General Counsel Fries stated that HB4927 was signed into law. There will require a couple of
tweaks to the video gaming terminal standards. The Gaming Board is working with GLI and the
changes should be up on our website by the end of the week. Rules are still being worked on
with comments from the industry regarding the second set of rules. We are working to finalize
the registration materials for lenders. There have been a number of trade shows throughout the
state with video gaming terminals in demo-mode. We have learned much information from
these shows. Applications for video gaming locations should be available in the near future and
will be web based.
Loren Gill – General Manager – Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino in East Peoria, Illinois
General Manager Gill appeared before the Board and invited the Board, staff and general public
to the Diversity Business Fair which the casino will host on September 20 and 21, 2010.
Roy Corrie – New Way Gaming Corporation
Mr. Corrie made the following comments:
Members of the board, thanks for letting me speak.
I need the Board to think outside of the box. Our politicians and the Illinois Gaming Board must
stop doing business as usual. The same old way over the last 80 years plus.
This is not a riverboat casino, lottery or racetrack type of gambling, back when the riverboat
casinos were starting up the Board gave the owners a chance to bid.
I am here today to ask for a private meeting with the Gaming Board, my attorneys with (Robert
Molaro law firm) and myself, to reconsider the Gaming Board’s approach to the Video Gaming
Act.

2

 Also at this time, I am requesting that the Board have the press here at the next meeting to let the
people of Illinois here about my proposal. Let’s see what the people think.
If the Board refuses to interview me and answer my questions in a private or public meeting, the
Board will leave me no choice, I will be forced to file a (TRO) temporary Restraining Order or
start an appeal process to overturn this law and open an investigation through my attorneys. This
could take months or years.
The Illinois Coin machine Operators Association (ICMOA) wrote this law 100% for the ICMOA
not for the people of Illinois and was pushed through by Lou Lang and other law makers before
asking the public or finding out about the new technology that will save the State of Illinois
billions over the next six years. And I can prove it.
We all know why the ICMOA wanted to keep organized crime in Illinois gambling.
We all know why our politicians in Illinois are in bed with or doing business with organized
crime. Why does the IGB want to be in bed and or do business with organized crime? From the
start, you Chairman Jaffe have stated many times you do not want organized crime in Illinois
gaming. How is that working for you? Did you figure out a way to stop it? I can stop it 100%
and I can prove it.
A few months ago, the Gaming Board asked by (by email) to bid on the central communication
system and send in ideas/questions dealing with the new Video Poker Gaming Act and CCS. No
one has called my company.
Over the last year, I have put together a proposal with 32 ways (I call them points) that will have
advantages for all involved. Until this day, I believe the Board never read my full proposal or
talk to me, to ask how my points work.
If the Board did read my proposal, then at the next regular meeting or (Special Meeting) I will
ask the Board to please explain to me and the people of Illinois how can you ignore or turn down
$5,000,000,000 over the next six years in saving for the people of Illinois.
Chairman Jaffe interrupted Mr. Corrie and asked him to please conclude his remarks within the
next few minutes. The Chairman reminded Mr. Corrie that the Board has a five minute time limit
for public commentary.
General Counsel Fries asked Mr. Corrie if he remembers the November 6, 2009 Board meeting
when Mr. Corrie spoke with Member Gardner after the meeting and Member Gardner asked Mr.
Corrie if he intended to change the law and if he needed to change the law to implement his
program and Mr. Corrie’s reply was that the law needs to be changed to implement his program.
General Counsel Fries asked if Mr. Corrie changed the law and Mr. Corrie replied no and
General Counsel Fries also reminded Mr. Corrie that the Board cannot change the law, the
legislators can change the law not the Gaming Board. Mr. Corrie stated that he went to Lou
Lang to ask for the change, nothing was done. With that Mr. Corrie concluded his remarks, left a
copy of his presentation and exited the meeting.

3

 PRESENTATION TO THE ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
TOM SWOIK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ILLINOIS CASINO GAMING ASSOCIATION
AUGUST 25, 2010
Good afternoon I am here today to update you on a few events that the members of the
Association have or will be involved in this year. Those events included the 43nd Annual
Chicago Business Opportunity Fair, the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week August 26 and an industry sponsored Minority Vendor Fair to be held later this fall.
The 43nd Annual Chicago Business Opportunity Fair, organized by the Chicago Minority
Business Development Council took place at Navy Pier on March 29-31. For the fourth year the
members of the ICGA sponsored and participated in the events including having a booth at the
trade show. In addition to the booth sponsored by the members of the Association, Harrah’s also
sponsored a booth.
This year there were fewer booths, but the turnout was still impressive. The individuals
stationed at our booth represented the purchasing departments of their casinos. We had
tremendous turnout at our location. I believe numerous contacts were made that will help us
achieve our efforts to work with diverse vendors.
Secondly, I would like to update you on the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week. The
American Gaming Association created Responsible Gaming Week
In 1998 to increase awareness of problem gambling among gaming employees and customers
and to promote responsible gaming nationwide. The week of August 2-6, 2010, was the
thirteenth year for this event. This year the theme was “Taking the mystery out of the slot
machine” was focused on educating the employees and the public about how slot machines work
and correcting some of the misconceptions about them.
The information provided this year by the AGA included media advisory information, buttons,
ribbons, stickers, brochures, posters, and table tents for employee lounges. The objective of the
campaign is to involve employees in activities to promote responsible gaming. Employees are
trained to explain to patrons the significance of the button, sticker or ribbon they are wearing
during Responsible Gaming Education Week.
Prior to Responsible Gaming Education Week, management at the casinos provide training to
staff not only related to the week’s activities, but also as a refresher to the training every
employee receives related to responsible gaming.
Although Responsible Gaming Education Week is a special industry-wide collaborative effort,
we are actively involved in improving responsible gaming efforts every week throughout the
year.
Finally, I would like to inform you that the Association will again sponsor a minority vendor fair
later this fall or early winter. As you will recall last year we co-sponsored an event at both the
Hollywood Casino.

4

 This year we will co-sponsor another business diversity fair which will be held at Harrah’s Joliet
on November 11.
I will keep you posted on the timing of this event.
I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today.
BOARD POLICH ITEMS –
Board Policy Items –
●

Riverboat Gambling

Rule 3000.100 – Definition of Supplier – Second Notice Filing
Member Moore moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.100 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing of
the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made to these rules during the
Second Notice process. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Rule 3000.200 – Classification of Licenses – Second Notice Filing

Member Moore moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.200 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing of
the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made to these rules during the
Second Notice process. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Rule 3000.222 – Identification and Requirements of Key Persons – Second Notice Filing

Member Moore moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.222 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing
of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made to these rules during
the Second Notice process. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 ●

IGB Code of Conduct – Proposed Amendment

Member Moore moved that the Board adopt the proposed revisions and amendments to the
Illinois Gaming Board’s Code of Conduct. Member Moore further moved to make the
revisions effective as of September 15, 2010. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Items for Final Action
●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Hotel and
Casino – Digital Surveillance
Member Gardner moved, pursuant to section 230(d)(1)(J) of the Board’s Adopted
Rules, to approve Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., d/b/a Harrah’s
Metropolis Hotel and Casino’s request to purchase, through its affiliate, Harrah’s
Operating Company, Inc., surveillance equipment from Global Surveillance
Associates, Inc. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. – Request to exchange unsecured notes, (convert nonvoting common stock to voting common stock) and authorize the Administrator to
approve any subsequent registrations and stock exchange listings

Member Sullivan moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREAS, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., through subsidiaries, owns Southern
Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., which does business as Harrah’s Metropolis Casino
& Hotel. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., through subsidiaries, also owns 80% of Des
Plaines Development, L.P., which does business as Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel. Both
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. and Des Plaines Development, L.P. are
Illinois Owner licensees;
WHEREAS, on December 19, 2006 Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. entered into a
definitive Agreement And Plan Of Merger with affiliates of two private equity firms,
Apollo Management, L.P. and Texas Pacific Group – subsequently known as TPG Capital.
Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. was the surviving company and is 100% owned by Hamlet
Holdings, Inc. Hamlet Holdings, Inc. is owned by affiliates of Apollo Management, L.P.
and TPG Capital;
WHEREAS, following the merger, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. had two classes of
stock: voting stock, which holds no economic interest in Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. and
non-voting stock, which has 100% of the economic interest, but no voting rights or control
in Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. The voting stock is wholly-owned by Hamlet Holdings,
LLC. The non-voting stock is owned by entities which are investment vehicles for
sophisticated institutional and individual investors;
6

 WHEREAS, Hamlet Holdings, Inc. is managed by six Managing Members, three
from Apollo Management L.P. and three from TPG Capital.
WHEREAS, Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. seeks to amend its Certificate of
Incorporation to effect the following changes:
(1) Reclassify the existing non-voting common shares to a new class of voting
common stock such that holders of the new class of voting common stock will
receive one share of new voting common stock for each share of non-voting stock
held;
(2) Cancel existing voting common stock; and
(3) Cancel existing non-voting common stock;
WHEREAS, Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. and Harrah’s BC, Inc. (“HBC”), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Harrah’s Entertainment Inc., entered into an exchange
agreement with affiliates of Apollo Management VI, L.P. (“Apollo”), TPG Capital, L.P.
(“TPG”) and Paulson & Co. Inc. (“Paulson”), whereby Apollo, TPG and Paulson agreed to
purchase from HBC certain unsecured Senior Notes issued by Harrah’s Operating
Company (HOC) and to exchange the HOC Notes for up to approximately 15.6% of the
new class of voting common stock;
WHEREAS, pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, any new voting common stock held by Paulson will be registered by
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.
NOW THEREFORE,
Be It Resolved, that the Board approves Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.’s, request to
reclassify non-voting common stock by converting the non-voting common stock into a new
voting common stock and register and list that stock with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Chairman Jaffe went on to read an article from the Las Vegas Sun and explaining why he voted
the way he did. The excerpts of the article are as follows:
By Steve Green
Published Thursday, July 22, 1020
Backed by investors with super-deep pockets, casino giant Harrah’s Entertain Inc. of Las Vegas
has forged ahead during the recession with a growth strategy despite losing billions of dollars
and carrying a hefty debt load of $22 billion.
Analyst Peggy Holloway at Moody’s Investors Service and others at Moody’s issued a report
this week questioning the growth strategy and saying “Harrah’s significant debt service burden
leaves the company with insufficient free cash flow for maintenance of existing assets or growth
initiatives.

7

 Moody’s says this means the company’s debt payments consume about 90 percent of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization generated at the property level, “leaving
insufficient free cash flow for debt reduction or capital spending.”
Chairman Jaffe stated that the article goes on to say that “Harrah’s isn’t investing enough in its
properties, which will hurt its competitive position over time.”
Member Winkler explained his reason for his vote.
This Board is entrusted with an awesome responsibility: not only to regulate the gambling
industry in Illinois but also to make sure that the people who are involved in gaming and the
decisions made by investors and their lawyers are more than merely legal. They must also be
ethical.
A major investor in this proposed arrangement is John Paulson, the owner and CEO of Paulson
& Co., a hedge fund which capitalized on Wall Street’s problems during the housing bubble by
lending money to investment banks to the tune of $345 billion of write-downs. On April 16 of
this year, Paulson and Co. was mentioned by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
court filings when the SEC sued Goldman Sachs. The allegation was that Goldman Sachs
misrepresented to investors that an objective third party had assembled the mortgage package
underlying the synthetic credit obligations, when – in fact, Paulson & Co. had a major role in
assembling the mortgage package. Goldman had set up a fund called Abacus in collusion with
Mr. Paulson which was designed specifically to buy short.
Mr. Paulson made $8 billion dollars on that deal and others between 2007 and today, and is #45
on the Forbes list of the world’s wealthiest billionaires.
While Mr. Paulson did not do anything illegal, he certainly did a number of things that were
unethical. (Didn’t we recently hear something about the kind of behavior at a certain trial in the
Federal Court building down the street?)
Moreover, Mr. Paulson has purchased 9.99% of the stock in Harrah’s – just enough to elude our
IGB investigators.
Further, he has bought the same amount of stock in MGM, which owns the Grand Victoria
Casino in Elgin and 9.99% of Boyd Gaming, which owns the Par-A-Dice in Peoria. Thus, by
investing now in Harrah’s, he will have a major interest in four of the nine casinos in Illinois.
And he will not answer the queries of this Board about his transactions or the ownership of his
company.
If you want to know more about Paulson & Co. and the ways that he mightily contributed to the
housing bubble and our current Great Depression, read Michael Lewis’ insightful and frightening
book, The Big Short.
I believe that the integrity of the Illinois gaming Board is at stake in this matter. Certainly I
believe that my personal integrity is at stake. I cannot and will not aid and abet an investor who

8

 has played a major role in bringing our nation to a major financial and ethical crisis. Therefore, I
vote no.
Member Gardner seconded the motion.
The Motion passed 3-2 on the following vote:
Chairman Jaffe – No
Member Sullivan – Yes
Member Winkler – No
Member Moore – Yes
Member Gardner – Yes
●

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation – Roscoe Green–Assistant General Manager, Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Roscoe Greene as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position
of Assistant General Manager for Empress Casino Joliet Corporation, in Joliet,
Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership, d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Ashley Cak – Internal Auditor, Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Ashley Cak as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of
Internal Auditor for Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel, in Joliet, Illinois. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. – Jeffrey Carstensen – Controller, Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Jeffrey Carstensen as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Controller for Rock Island Boatworks, in Rock Island, Illinois with the
following condition:
Mr. Carstensen shall obtain training in the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act as
it pertains to the reporting and filing of Suspicious Activity Reports and notify the
IGB Docksite Supervisor upon completion of the training. This training must be
completed by December 1, 2010. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

9

 ●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino &
Hotel – Patrick MacFarlane, – Senior Internal Auditor, Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Patrick MacFarlane, as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Senior Internal Auditor for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises,
Inc., d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino & Hotel, in Metropolis, Illinois. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
●

Atronic Americas, LLC – License Renewal
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board renew the Supplier’s License held by Atronic Americas, LLC. Retroactively
to March 30, 2010 and for a term of four years expiring in March, 2014.
Further Member Moore moved that Atronic Americas, LLC, be authorized and
approved to provide electronic gaming devices to licensed riverboat casinos in the
State of Illinois, pursuant to the requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted
Rules:
Furthermore member Moore moved to designate the following individuals, entities
and corporations as Key Persons of Atronic Americas, LLC.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

B&D Holding Di Marco Drago & CS. P.A.;
De Agostini S.p.A.;
Lottomatica Group, S.p.A.;
GTECH Corporation;
Chief Executive Officer, Atronic Americas, LLC;
Chief Operating Officer, Atronic Americas, LLC;
Manager, Atronic Americas, LLC;
Victor Duarte; and
Kenneth Bossingham.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s –
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 49 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 129
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.

10

 Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to
issue a Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that
staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide
additional information to rebut the recommendation.
1. Deborah T. Bailey; and
2. Sean Travis Jerman.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Shannon M. Gillan – Occupational Licensee

Member Winkler voted against the motion last month, Member Winkler stated that he was not
certain about Ms. Gillan’s behavior, believing that the casino was in agreement with Ms. Gillan’s
behavior; later Member Winkler stated that he came to realize that the casino was not in
agreement with the occupational licensee’s behavior.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Shannon M. Gillan, an occupational
licensee, due to her failing to follow Empress Casino’s internal controls when she
instructed a dealer to pay a $2500 double down bet for a patron without getting the
approval of the Assistant casino Operations Manager and without getting
verification from surveillance.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Shannon M. Gillan’s
occupational license for 30 days without pay, with credit for 30 days already taken.
Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

Melissa Bannister – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Melissa Bannister, an occupational
licensee, due to her conviction of Theft By Deception.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke Melissa Bannister’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

11

 ●

Valentino Mendoza – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Valentino Mendoza, an occupational
licensee, due to his manipulating the valet computer to increase the amount of
money he received in tips.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke Valentino Mendoza’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

●

Donald Dunn – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Donald Dunn, an occupational
licensee, due to his picking up a TITO voucher worth $500 from the casino floor,
giving it to another person to cash and then splitting the money with that person.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Donald Dunn’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

Frank McDowell – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Frank McDowell, an occupational
licensee, due to his theft of a $20.00 bill from a casino patron.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Frank McDowell’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS ●

In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Thomas Hoffstatter DC-10-05
Pursuant to section 3000.1155 of the Adopted Rules, Member Sullivan moved for the
adoption and entry of a Final Board Order suspending the Occupational License
held by Thomas Hoffstatter for ten days without pay and setting forth therein the
basis of the suspension.

12

 Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
At 2:07 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

13

 