MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 22, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, December 22, 2008 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday, December 22, 2008 at approximately 10:00 a.m. the following Board Members
were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph
Moore. Member Sullivan participate via telephone.
At 10:20 a.m. on Monday, December 22, 2008, Member Winkler called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:50 a.m. The Board went
into open session at 11:05 a.m.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
●

Items for Final Action –
Re-issuance of 10th Owners License – Selection of Winning Applicant

Member Winkler moved to have each Board member individually vote for the winning
applicant for the 10th License. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chief Counsel Fries read an introduction referencing the history of the 10th License.
7.1 of the Act was read. The recommendation of the staff is as follows and is available on the
website.
INTRODUCTION
In July 1997 the Silver Eagle, located on the Mississippi River in Jo Davies County, Illinois,
closed. That license, now known as the 10th License, has not generated revenue for the State of
Illinois since that date and, to the contrary, was mired in litigation until the end of 2007. In 2008
the Illinois Gaming Board (the Board or IGB) initiated a process to re-issue the 10th License.
The Board contracted with Credit Suisse to assist in developing the re-issuance process and in
analyzing applications for the 10th License. An application for the 10th License was made
available on July 18, 2008 and was due on October 14, 2008. The Board received 7 applications
for the 10th License. After an intense, preliminary review and visits to each site, the Board
announced 3 Finalists on November 14, 2008.
As referenced in the IGB’s December 20, 2005 Final Board Order, in which the Owner’s License
held by Emerald Casino, Inc. (the 10th License) was revoked, there have been many individual
Board members involved with this license since the Silver Eagle closed in 1997. Interestingly,
since the 10th License was revoked in 2005, Board membership, and for the most part the
Board’s senior staff, remained consistent. This gives the Board and staff a unique perspective.
The overall purpose of the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act (the Act) was succinctly set forth by
the legislature. “This Act is intended to benefit the people of the State of Illinois by assisting
economic development and promoting Illinois tourism and by increasing the amount of revenues
available to the State to assist and support education.” 230 ILCS 10/2(a). The legislature
recognized what was at stake in the legalization of gambling and statutorily announced that
concern as follows:
While authorization of riverboat gambling will enhance investment,
development and tourism in Illinois, it is recognized that it will do so
successfully only if public confidence and trust in the credibility and integrity
of the gambling operations and the regulatory process is maintained.
Therefore, regulatory provision of this Act are designed to strictly regulate the
facilities, persons, association and practices related to gambling operations
pursuant to the police powers of the State, including comprehensive law
enforcement supervision. (230 ILCS 10/2(b)).
In light of the history associated with the 10th License it bears emphasizing that the process of reissuing the 10th License is as much a part of the “regulatory process” as any other regulatory
function. The Board and staff were keenly aware of the scrutiny that would accompany the
process, as well as the result. Against that history and anticipated scrutiny, we unified in our
commitment to conduct a legitimate process, uninfluenced by outside comment or opinion. We
remained objective and unbiased in our review of each application. No applicant was prejudged.
Rather, each application was reviewed for completeness, content and certainty, against the intent

2

 of the Act and the factors on which an owner’s license is to be issued. As in all cases, facts
known from prior investigations and proceedings were considered and new investigations were
conducted.
LEGISLATIVE INTENT
The legislature made clear the intent behind the legalization of gambling in Illinois. The
legislature advised that the legalization of gambling was intended to benefit the people of the
State of Illinois. To do so, legalized casino operations must assist in economic development,
promote Illinois tourism and increase “the amount of revenues available to the State to assist and
support education.” (230 ILCS 10/2(a)). The legislature reiterated its overall intent as follows:
“In determining the water upon which riverboats will operate, the Board shall consider the
economic benefit which riverboat gambling confers on the State, and shall seek to assure that all
regions of the State share in the economic benefits of riverboat gambling.” 230 ILCS 10/7(e).
ANALYSIS
I.
The proposals submitted by each of the applicants will, to one degree or another, assist in
economic development, promote Illinois tourism and increase the amount of revenues available
to the State to assist and support education. From ownership and minority participation to
financing certainty and revenue generation, each proposal has particular merits as well as flaws.
No singular component in any of the applications was enough to definitively conclude that a
particular applicant should be selected. The comments that follow are summary in nature. The
Board has reviewed all supporting documentation.
Trilliant’s bid to pay $435 million for the 10th License is $210 million more than the next highest
proposal. proposed paying $2.5 million to the State within 10 days of selection as the winning
applicant. Trilliant proposed paying $2.5 million to the State within 20 business days of
selection as the winning applicant. Waukegan proposed paying $2.5 million to the State within
45 days of selection as the winning applicant. Trilliant and Waukegan proposed a payment of
$50 million within 60 days of being found suitable. Trilliant made that offer unconditional.
Waukegan’s offer to pay $50 million is subject to financing. Offered to pay $50 million within
60 days of being found suitable conditioned on there being no legal challenge to ’s selection as
the winning applicant. ’s $50 million payment is not guaranteed by the equity investors.
Each applicant submitted a Market Analysis that made the case for a casino in its proposed
location. The concept of cannibalization, easy to manipulate and highly subjective, was given
significant attention. Applicants’ projections were both accepted and challenged during the
analysis. An exact answer, from estimated projections, is not possible.
A casino in Rosemont or Des Plaines will likely have an immediate cannibalization effect on
Elgin and Aurora, but that should not be sustained over time. In sum, a Rosemont or Des Plaines
casino will draw patrons from existing casinos in Illinois, as well as Indiana and even Wisconsin,
for a certain period of time. The limit on the number of gaming positions available for patron

3

 play at a Des Plaines or Rosemont casino will cause those patrons who want to play, but cannot
access a position to return or relocate to a casino where they can play. Supply and demand in a
capped market should minimize long term cannibalization.
Revenue projections to the State over time were analyzed and tested in detail, from multiple
perspectives. Excluding the difference in the up front payment to the State, a casino in
Rosemont or Des Plaines will likely bring substantially the same long term revenue to the State.
Both should bring more revenue to the State than the Waukegan Gaming proposal.
Each applicant reallocates local gaming tax revenue from the local communities to the State.
While the Trilliant and Waukegan proposals redirect local gaming tax proceeds through a
municipal bond offering in order to increase the up front License Fee to the State, redirects local
gaming tax to the State over a 30 year period in the amount of $10 million per year. stated that
it is also prepared to increase the up front payment to the State through a municipal bond
offering in lieu of the 30 year future payments. On a comparable basis, the plan reallocates
more local tax revenue than both the Trilliant and Waukegan plans over the first 30 years.
Rosemont is the only host community that agreed to give its share of the local gaming tax
revenue to the gaming operator/developer in perpetuity. Rosemont is not expected to receive any
local gaming tax revenue so long as the WCMC revenue sharing agreement is not terminated
after year 25.
The Act requires minority and female ownership of 16 and 4 percent respectively. The concept
of mandated ownership, enacted in 1999 as part of the legislation allowing Emerald Casino to
move from Jo Davies County, had negative economic consequences to several minority and
female investors in Emerald Casino. We do not know how broad a base the legislature desired
for inclusion. Here, each applicant submitted a proposal that will ultimately meet or exceed the
minority ownership requirement.
Staff notes that the Trilliant model for minority ownership is novel. It will introduce thousands
of people into ownership. Although similar to ownership in a public company, the individual
owners investing through this vehicle will have to be monitored for eligibility. Those investing
5% or more will become Key Persons and have to submit to a due diligence investigation. The
degree of resources needed to monitor or perform investigations on the thousands of individuals
who invest less than 5% is unknown and will be determined on an ongoing basis.
The Board must also consider the applicants’ proposed facilities. Development costs and
timelines were evaluated. Each applicant plans to construct and open a casino within 12 to 17
months of being found suitable. Waukegan Gaming intends to spend less to develop and
construct a casino in Waukegan than either Trilliant Gaming or Gaming intends to spend in
Rosemont or Des Plaines respectively. The salient factor associated with this issue is not staff’s
aesthetic preference but, rather, the financial certainty that the casino will be built.
The financial climate in which the applicants have had to compete is dire. Between July 1, 2008
and December 8, 2008, Gaming operator stock price equity returns – based on a composite of 8
gaming operators – fell approximately 72.5%. From October 14, 2008, when the proposals were
first due until December 8, 2008, Gaming operator stock price equity returns fell approximately

4

 39%. The financial strength and certainty of each applicant’s proposal was, accordingly, tested
even more intensely against the likelihood that it can pay the up front money when due and
actually maintain the financial components of its proposal through construction.
Letters from financial institutions indicating varying degrees of confidence or providing certain
levels of commitment are difficult to rely on in the current financial market. Despite that reality,
staff notes that, amongst the 3 Finalists, Trilliant Gaming provided commitments for more than
50% of its equity and debt financing. Waukegan Gaming provided commitments from two of
its equity sponsors for approximately 22% of its financing. Although identified source of funds
and the ability to access equity and secure financing, it did not provide commitments from any of
its financial sponsors. Trilliant’s proposal provides the most financial certainty in terms of
committed financing.
Against the backdrop of an uncertain financial market the Board must consider each Applicant’s
likely ability to assist economic development. Each Applicant submitted information on its
principals’ development experience and on the effect its particular plan will have on the
economic development of the area. Each plan will create jobs. Each will drive tourism in ways
unique to its location. The City of Waukegan intends to use a portion of its local share of
gaming taxes to speed the re-development of its lakefront. will develop more of the immediate
area surrounding its site.
In 2003 the Act was amended to provide for the re-issuance of a revoked owner’s license. The
location of 6 of the initial 10 owners licenses were statutorily designated to a specific
community, county or region. The 4 remaining licenses were to be issued at the Board’s
discretion, based on delineated factors. In addition, the Board had discretion to consider and
give favorable consideration to economically depressed areas of the State and to plans which
provide for significant economic development over a large geographic area. The 2003
amendments made it mandatory for the Board to consider these 2 questions when re-issuing the
10th License.
Each host community will share a portion of the gaming tax revenues it receives with other
communities. Des Plaines intends to distribute 40% of net tax revenue, estimated at $5.5 million
in year 1, to at least 10, but not more than 25, of the neediest communities in Cook County.
Waukegan intends to distribute 20% of net tax revenue, estimated at $4.6 million in year 1, to 8
of the neediest communities in Lake County and has specifically targeted the redevelopment of
its lakefront. Rosemont intends to distribute 80% of net tax revenue, estimated at $17 million in
year 1, to 70 communities throughout Cook County. While Rosemont has a larger dollar impact
on non-host communities, Des Plaines and Waukegan will have a greater dollar impact per
community.
Character, reputation and experience are vital issues in gaming. Initial and intense investigations
have been conducted and preliminary assessments have been made on these factors. The
principals of Trilliant Gaming and Gaming, and certain principals of Waukegan Gaming, have
significant gaming experience. Staff notes that Trilliant has identified its management team and
actually introduced them during its presentation to the Board. No other applicant did so. No
derogatory information has been discovered thus far that would call into question the character or

5

 reputation of the Trilliant Gaming team or the principals of Gaming. However, certain principals
of Waukegan Gaming have questionable associations and business dealings that give staff
considerable pause. Of course, the winning applicant will undergo an exhaustive due diligence
investigation, including source of funds, prior to being found suitable and actually being issued
an owners license.
II.
Staff is acutely aware of regulatory concerns about locating a casino in Rosemont. Many have
been critical of Rosemont as a site for a casino operation. Because this process has not been
prejudged, staff offers the following comments on those concerns so that the Board can make a
reasoned determination based on current and unbiased information.
Following the 2003 – 2004 attempt to sell Emerald Casino pursuant to a Bankruptcy Court
sanctioned process, Attorney General Lisa Madigan criticized the selection of Isle of Capri as the
winning purchaser. Attorney General Madigan argued that Rosemont had an improper
advantage over other possible sites because 1) it had a $45 million claim in bankruptcy based on
an unauthorized contract with Emerald Casino to build a garage, 2) selection of Rosemont as a
host community would moot Rosemont’s litigation associated with the revocation proceedings
and 3) Isle of Capri claimed that it would be able to construct and open a casino sooner than
anyone else due primarily to the existence of infrastructure that Rosemont built without
authority.
Other than the fact that the Rosemont site is adjacent to an existing parking structure, which
Gaming and Waukegan Gaming would have to build, the current situation is markedly different
than when Isle of Capri won the right to build in Rosemont in 2004. Here, Rosemont is not
waiving its bankruptcy claim in order for Trilliant to obtain an advantage. Trilliant is purchasing
the real estate and the adjacent parking garage. Rosemont’s bankruptcy claim will be reduced
correspondingly.
The Revocation Proceedings and the associated “Rosemont litigation” have been concluded.
This concern is moot. Finally, Trilliant Gaming may take longer to construct a casino due to the
need to remove the infrastructure that Emerald Casino built in 1999. To the extent that it may
have given Isle of Capri an advantage in 2004, that advantage no longer exists.
Unlike Emerald Casino, which became entangled with the late Mayor Donald Stephens as a
result of a confluence of legislation and secret dealings amongst its principals and others
concerning ownership, Trilliant Gaming has publicly testified that it sought out Rosemont after
consulting with other potential host communities. Trilliant was not thrust on Rosemont and
Rosemont was not thrust upon Trilliant. Moreover, the Trilliant Gaming ownership structure is
vastly different than that of Emerald Casino. First and foremost, Donald and Kevin Flynn and
the late Mayor Stephens are not involved. Second, the structure of the Trilliant Gaming statutory
ownership should not lend itself to the nefarious relationships and disastrous consequences
associated with Emerald Casino’s sham attempt to fulfill the minority ownership requirement.

6

 The Attorney General correctly pointed out that a host community can assert influence by
insisting that the licensee use certain contractors or service providers. The community provides
police and fire protection, traffic control, water supply and waste and sewage removal. The
community also holds the power to tax.
Trilliant Gaming and Rosemont have attempted to address each of these concerns. Trilliant
Gaming will purchase the land on and surrounding the casino as well as the parking garage. This
relationship eliminates the previous Lease and Development Agreement that raised concerns
about Rosemont’s ability to control the casino operation because it still owned the land and
controlled the parking garage. Trilliant Gaming will also manage all aspects of construction and
even act as the general contractor.
Trilliant Gaming and Rosemont have also entered into a contract that defines their relationship.
All dealings must be commercially reasonable and at arm’s-length. The agreement puts
parameters on municipal services, utility services, police and fire protection and traffic control.
The agreement contains a non-interference provision that specifically prevents Rosemont from
taking or attempting to take any action to influence or interfere with the casino operation or its
affiliates. Noteworthy, unlike any other host community in Illinois, Rosemont will prohibit any
contractor or vendor doing business with Rosemont from doing business with the casino
operation. Conversely, any contractor or vendor doing business with the casino operation will be
prohibited from doing business with the Village of Rosemont. The Mayor of Rosemont and all
Rosemont Village Trustees will be prohibited from gambling at the Rosemont casino operation
and no Rosemont employee or elected official will have any affiliation or interest in the casino
operation. If Trilliant Gaming is selected, staff recommends that these provisions be made a
condition of licensure.
The Attorney General and others also questioned why the IGB would place the 10th License in a
community that will fight the Board in its efforts to regulate the licensee. Given the amount of
litigation initiated by Rosemont during the Revocation Proceedings it is a fair question, but one
that should not dictate a result if the applications and the factors set forth in the Act are
legitimately evaluated. Moreover, although not binding on unrelated, future litigation, Rosemont
has executed a Release of all Claims against the IGB relative to Trilliant’s bid for the 10th
License and Rosemont as the host community.
As has been opined, bad acts should have consequences. Emerald Casino paid the ultimate price
for its conduct, which included allowing persons with organized crime ties and persons
connected to Rosemont into ownership by hidden or surreptitious means. In staff’s judgment,
the law does not allow us to prejudge Trilliant Gaming in the manner suggested and we will not
do so. If Trilliant is awarded the 10th License and fails to diligently protect the integrity of a
casino gaming operation in Rosemont it will suffer the same consequence as Emerald – the
revocation of that license.
Whether or not the Trilliant proposal is selected, staff feels compelled to make one further point.
The City of Des Plaines sits adjacent to the Village of Rosemont. To the extent that there are
improper attempts to exert control over a casino in Rosemont by anyone, let alone organized
crime, it is naive to think that there is an invisible wall running down the middle of Devon

7

 Avenue that would prevent the same improper attempts from occurring at a casino operation in
Des Plaines.
The Board is statutorily required to consider the economic benefit of a proposal to the State.
Second, the IGB was criticized by some in 2002 for not taking a substantial payment in
settlement of the Revocation Proceedings. Instead, with the assistance of the Attorney General,
Emerald’s owner’s license was ultimately revoked. To suggest that the IGB is now making a
decision to simply grab the money is misplaced.
One additional point should be made regarding political contributions. Depending on the donor
and timing with other events, political donations can give rise to reasonable inferences of
nefarious conduct. Such inferences were evident in the Emerald Casino Revocation Proceedings.
Unlike that situation, staff has not discerned donations from any Trilliant Gaming source to any
Rosemont politician or related political fund. No contributions from Gaming sources were
discovered to the Mayor of Des Plaines. Waukegan Gaming sources have made recent
contributions to the Mayor of Waukegan. If Waukegan Gaming is selected as the winning
applicant, this circumstance must be further investigated.
After considering all of the foregoing, the Board should take into account that staff has concerns
related to Rosemont as a host community. Staff notes that certain businesses related to the
Emerald Casino proceedings continue to make contributions to The Bradley A. Stephens
Committeeman Fund and the Regular Republican League of Leyden Township. Additionally,
staff has concerns about potential negative influences on Mayor Stephens from persons identified
in the Emerald proceedings who either associate with elements of organized crime or otherwise
acted improperly.
III.
The Trilliant Gaming proposal provides the highest bid and, further, offers more financial
certainty than the other proposals in terms of commitments from financial sponsors. and
Trilliant should provide significantly the same amount of gaming tax revenue to the State over
time. Both proposals are financially superior to the Waukegan proposal.
Excluding Trilliant’s up front bid amount, the Trilliant and proposals are similar. The Board
must weigh the financial commitments obtained by Trilliant against the certainty that will, if
selected, meet the financial obligations set out in its proposal. Staff believes that can meet those
obligations if selected.
The Board must consider other factors, summarized above, in addition to the financial strength
and revenue generation of a proposal. The weight to be given those factors is purely within the
discretion of the Board. If the Board determines that other factors outweigh Trilliant’s up front
bid, it must issue a written decision explaining why another applicant was selected and identify
the factors that favored the winning bidder. Staff can support the selection of Gaming as the
winning applicant.

8

 Section 7.3 of the Act provides for the State to operate a gambling operation if the Board
determines that a State owned and operated casino would produce the highest prospective total
revenue to the State. Staff recommends against a finding that the highest prospective total
revenue to the State would be derived from State operation of a casino in lieu of re-issuing the
10th License.
A casino operation located at the proposed sites in Rosemont, Des Plaines or Waukegan can be
regulated just as efficiently and diligently as other casino operations in Illinois. If there is any
inappropriate influence on the operator, from any source, let alone the host community, it will be
dealt with, up to and including revocation of the license. That is the expectation of the law and
the obligation of the Board.
Chairman Jaffe’s statement:
Each and every item was gone over carefully, with regard to character and reputation. Nothing
reflects poorly upon the character and reputation of Trilliant and Midwest Gaming. However,
Waukegan LLC has certain principals with questionable associations.
Trilliant submitted the best up front bid, Waukegan comes in second, with a bid of $225M. Des
Plaines upfront money is worked out a little differently, $122.5M paid upon licensure upfront,
and thereafter $10M per year for 30 years. Midwest’s offer comes in around $255M. Now,
taking Development costs into consideration, Midwest has three phases, Trilliant has two phases
and Waukegan has two phases. Trilliant’s phase one consists of a 55,000 sq. ft. casino space, 4
restaurants and a 1,875 car parking garage and phase two would be a 10,000 square foot night
club. Waukegan’s phase one is 5,000 square feet of casino space, 4 restaurants and meeting
space and phase two is construction of a 150 room hotel. Midwest Gaming’s phase one consists
of erecting a 50,000 sq foot casino, 4 restaurants with business and meeting rooms and a 1,700
car parking garage. Phase two consists of construction of a hotel and parking garage and phase
three are hotel additions and multiple restaurants. Cost for development of each project is as
follows: Trilliant’s cost would be $258M, Waukegan $240M and Midwest $704M. That states
in itself that Midwest is putting more into the property, more jobs and benefits to the people of
the community. Revenue taxes between Trillinat and Midwest would be comparable, Waukegan
would lag further behind. Taking the minority ownership and affirmative action plans into
consideration, Waukegan is the most economically needy of all the three areas. Each of the other
two, Trilliant and Midwest agree they would share revenue with other communities. The most
municipalities that will receive money from the tax revenue would be from Trilliant. Midwest
has a smaller amount of municipalities in their agreement but the sharing of revenue to more
depressed areas. Trilliant does not contribute to certain depressed areas. Rosemont’s agreement
seems to be more of a non-compete agreement with other municipalities in reference to revenue
sharing.
Chairman Jaffe’s vote

Midwest Gaming LLC - Des Plaines, Illinois

9

 Member Moore’s statement:
I have chosen the Waukegan Group for the following reasons:
This location most advances tourism.
This is the most economically depressed area of the three.
Little to no cannibalization from the other Illinois casinos.
There will be new dollars from the State of Wisconsin.
This group has agreed to share the tax dollars with other economically distressed communities in
the area.
This will mean jobs for the area which is badly needed.
Of course this vote is subject to suitability and due diligence.
Member Moore’s vote

Waukegan Gaming LLC – Waukegan, Illinois

Member Gardner’s statement:
First, a few words about this process; it has been open, above-board, transparent and thorough. It
involved expert counsel and advice from Credit Suisse, who itself was selected to advise the
Board pursuant to an open and competitive RFP bid process. It sought applicants from around
the world and resulted in seven proposals of varying degrees of acceptability, reasonableness and
certainty. And in the end, it will result in the establishment of a first class gaming facility in
Illinois that will meet or exceed the requirements of the Riverboat Gambling Act of the State of
Illinois.
The process was also respected by all. Applicants, existing licensees, elected officials, the public
and the press. No one, again no one, has contacted me at any time concerning any aspect of this
process, my role in it and/or the possible outcome.
And a word about delaying the selection; I have considered that possibility especially in light of
recent activities here in Illinois and I believe that delaying the selection would be costly,
inefficient and counter-productive. It would stop the current momentum that is surrounding the
process, put off the ultimate realization of the economic benefits of the tenth license to the
people of Illinois and may result in these uncertain economic times in less favorable future
proposals. We are ready to act and should do so now.
And a word about the Gaming Board staff; they are tireless, committed, dedicated, hard working,
talented and efficient. They have been extraordinary in their efforts to conduct and complete this
process while also fulfilling their ongoing responsibilities to regulate the gaming industry
throughout the State. I applaud them and thank them for their effort.

10

 Now to the selection – one of the most intriguing aspects of the process is that there is not a clear
winner. No single applicant clearly wins out over the others on each of the criteria. Waukegan
clearly most qualifies as a depressed area but its proposal suffers in credibility, commitment of
funds, the up-front fee and it has local opposition. And let me digress here to be perfectly clear
about the credibility of the Waukegan proposal. In their public presentation and the written
materials they provided therewith, Waukegan’s representatives asserted that the Waukegan
facility would generate some $379 million in AGR in its first stabilized year. They further
asserted that that amount would make their facility the highest grossing facility in the history of
Illinois gaming. Ladies and gentlemen, that is at best an outright misstatement; in more than a
few years, Grand Victoria has already generated more than $400 million in AGR. I don’t know
about all of you, but, to me, a misstatement like that calls into question the credibility of
Waukegan’s entire proposal.
So, back to the selection. Midwest is credible, has future development potential and has
significantly increased the amount of money to be paid to the State but suffers from local
opposition and union concerns. Trilliant proposes the highest fee and, in my judgment, has the
best minority participation plan but Rosemont is tainted by reputation, clearly doesn’t meet the
need test and its revenue sharing plan simply doesn’t measure up; it supports some of the more
well to do communities in the region but ignores many of the most economically depressed.
To pick a winner, then, I focused on the following: amount, timing and certainty of the fee; net
new revenues to the State; support for depressed areas of the State; the minority participation
plan; commitment to community and the acceptability of the host community. In these areas,
Trilliant wins on the fee and its minority participation plan, Waukegan and Midwest best meet
the depressed area test although in different ways, Waukegan actually makes the most certain
long term commitment to its community Foundation although Midwest‘s principals’ reputation
for generosity and philanthropy is legendary and Rosemont is least acceptable as the host
community. On that note, let me say however, that I have every confidence in the ability of the
Illinois Gaming Board to properly regulate a facility in that location. I actually think that a
facility in Rosemont might become the most scrutinized and therefore least likely to be corrupted
gaming facility in the world.
So what’s left in the foregoing analysis – it’s the question of net new tax revenues to the State the so-called cannibalization issue. This is the most difficult question for me to assess; it
involves significant forward looking projections, conflicting testimony and no way to know the
correct answer until after the decision has been made. However, I am persuaded by three things
that over the long term, a casino in either Rosemont or Des Plaines will generate substantially
more new tax revenues for the State than one in Waukegan. The three factors are: the expertise
and experience of Credit Suisse; the limits on gaming positions in Illinois which will restrict the
appeal of a new facility to existing gamblers if the new facility is not big enough to meet its
demand, or as Yogi Berra put it: “nobody goes there anymore, it’s too crowded”; and the
opportunity that Rosemont and Des Plaines have to attract some Indiana patrons back to Illinois
and to attract significant “out-of-state” action from O’Hare travelers and patrons of existing and
to be built hotels, the Rosemont convention facility and other proximate attractions.

11

 Accordingly, I vote to grant the tenth license to Midwest Gaming. Their proposal best meets the
criteria established in the Act and the long term needs of the State. While their up-front fee is
relatively small, Des Plaines’ commitment of $300 million dollars to the State over thirty years
overcomes the difference between their up-front fee and Waukegan’s and closes the gap on
Trilliant. Moreover, their facility will be of the highest quality as reflected by their budget for
building it and they will generate at least as much if not more net new tax revenue to the State as
the others. They are financially solid, clearly experienced and highly reputable. In addition, Des
Plaines’ commitment to share a significant portion of its local tax revenue, as much as six
million dollars in the early years and rising significantly in the future, with economically
depressed communities in the region satisfies both the economically depressed area and the wide
ranging economic development criteria of the Act. Finally, the future expansion potential of
their site provides long term possibilities for further economic development.
Now, I also want to say a word about why I’m not voting to grant the tenth license to Trilliant
Gaming. Yes, their up-front fee is the largest; their minority investment plan is best, in my
opinion, and I encourage to develop a comparable arrangement that provides the investment
opportunity to as large and diverse a population as possible; and I agree with Mr. Yemenidjian
that their site is quite good. Too bad it’s in Rosemont.
In the end, it comes to that. Rosemont and Trilliant have snatched defeat from the jaws of
victory. On the one hand, Rosemont has done much to overcome the taint and stigma associated
with its past efforts to attract a casino; however, it has failed to do so in the end. That failure is
borne out by their reaction to our demand that their proposal better meet the economically
depressed area requirement of the Act. Their response was two-fold: first that their sharing of
80% of the local revenue with some seventy communities accomplished that goal and second
that they would be happy to reduce their up-front fee to provide additional support to poorer
communities if we just told them how much to reduce the fee and to whom to allocate the
money.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the response I would have expected from the late
Mayor Stephens, not from an allegedly reform minded new mayor and his “squeaky clean”
impeccably credentialed investment team. It ignores the fact that the 70 community sharing pact
is a holdover from previous bids and as one of our public speakers pointed out is a “quid pro
quo” deal. You support Rosemont and don’t compete with us, recipient community, and we’ll
throw you a few crumbs. If you don’t play ball, you don’t get anything. As a result some of the
wealthier communities in Cook County benefit from the arrangement while some of the poorest
are excluded.
More importantly, their response reflects exactly the arrogance, disdain and contempt for the
Illinois Gaming Board that the late Mayor so openly displayed. It is an attitude that survives and
persists and it is an attitude that can’t be rewarded and won’t be tolerated. In the end, it is why I
cannot vote for Trilliant.
Member Gardner’s vote

Midwest Gaming LLC - Des Plaines, Illinois

Member Sullivan statement:

12

 •
I believe that there will be more economic development associated with the proposal in
Des Plaines.
•
The up front bid carries less weight for me than other factors related to the overall
project. The immediate economic advantage should not, in my opinion, cloud our responsibility
to comply with the intent of the Act and maintain the integrity of gaming in Illinois.
•
The principals are very experienced in the development of casino operations. and I am
persuaded that their proposal is adequately capitalized, will be developed on time and will result
in a first class facility for the State of Illinois.
•
I believe that long term payouts of $10 million per year for 30 years, in addition to the
expected tax payments, will be an important and stable infusion of money that will benefit future
generations of school children in Illinois.
•
I have considered the issue of cannibalization. I am convinced that cannibalization will
be minimized by Illinois’ cap on positions.
•

These are the basic reasons for my vote.

Member Sullivan’s vote

Midwest Gaming LLC - Des Plaines, Illinois

Member Winkler’s statement:
We, the five of us who have worked together as members of the Illinois Gaming Board, along
with the intelligent, committed, hard-working staff of the Board, come to make the decision
about awarding the tenth casino license at a propitious time in the history of our state.
To some of you that seems a ridiculous statement. Our state government is in many ways in
freefall. Politicians and pundits are vying for position and power, ambition and ascendancy. All
of Illinois government is at a time of crisis and self-evaluation. At least, we can hope that it is.
This process has brought me to one of the most difficult decisions of my entire career. In the first
place, Member Joe Moore and I voted for a casino site in the southern suburbs because we
believe that they need the revenue more than other sites—certainly more than Rosemont and Des
Plaines. But the Board felt obligated to name the three highest bidders as finalists.
Now we are left to choose among those three. We have discussed, debated, deliberated for
weeks. The Credit Suisse team and our own staff have worked diligently, faithfully, intelligently
to help us understand all the ramifications of this choice.
I wanted to vote for Waukegan because it alone meets the criterion of a distressed community,
but our staff investigations have shown that the investors are tainted by associations with some
very shady characters and some very, very greedy past deals. While the City of Waukegan would
spend the tax revenue on a much-needed revitalization of a crumbling downtown and a polluted
and devastated lakefront, I had hoped that they would also take into account a crashing education
system, a failing health-care system and its neediest citizens.

13

 Trilliant has offered the highest bid and the greatest degree of professionalism among the three
bidders. They have tried to divorce the casino from the village of Rosemont, and I commend
them for that. And they have been flexible about our demands that the revenue sharing among
the 70 communities that made the 1995 agreement be expanded.
However, our staff’s investigations reveal what Judge Abner Mikva’s extensive hearings
concerning the Emerald license made clear—that organized crime still controls much of the life
of the village of Rosemont. I continue to question whether the village of Rosemont can, indeed,
be divorced from the Trilliant casino.
The one of the three applicants that is the least tainted has also has been the most difficult to deal
with. The arrogance of Midwest Gaming is palpable. Mr. Bluhm is a smart businessman but he
also wants everything done his way. And, if awarded the license, I fear what regulatory
problems our staff will have to deal with. His proposal would rob the City of Des Plaines of ten
million dollars a year in revenue—300 million dollars over the next thirty years. Moreover, Mr.
Bluhm and his cohorts were more than evasive when questioned about sources of funds, labor
unions, part-time employment and health and pension benefits for employees. All of this makes
it hard for me to vote for Gaming.
A woman brought home a monkey she had purchased at the local pet store. Her husband was
outraged. “Where will the monkey eat?” he asked. “At the table, with us,” his wife replied.
“Where will the monkey sleep?” “In our bed, with us,” said his wife. “What about the odor?” “I
got used to it,” she said. “So can the monkey.”
We have become accustomed to the stench of casino gambling and its effects in Illinois. That’s
the problem: we have grown used to corruption in government, pay to play, headline grabbers
and behind-the-scenes operators. But real moral and ethical issues are at stake.
I have been called into a role that demands that I keep the distinction between the world’s lies
and God’s truth clear. This is a moment when my conscience and my calling combine to prevent
me from voting for any of the three applicants. I am not abstaining. I am refusing to vote for
any of the three applicants. They, each of them in its own way, are unacceptable.
Member Winkler’s vote

Member Winkler refused to vote.

Chief Counsel Fries stated that based upon the outcome of the vote, which is 3 votes in favor of
Midwest Gaming LLC, the Board will issue a written determination outlying what factors were
important to the Board Members that out weighed the upfront bid proposed by Trilliant Gaming.
This will be made available by the next Board meeting which will be the 12th of January, 2009.
Copies of the staff recommendation will be made available to the public on the 3rd floor of the
Gaming Board offices.

14

 At 1:25 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

15

 