STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 12, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.— at 160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn
Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel. Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General
Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 14, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the June 14, 2016, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-CA-15-032
North Riverside Fire Fighters, Local 2714/Village of North Riverside

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that the
Board had heard oral arguments on this matter at the Board’s June meeting, which was recorded by a court reporter.
She then summarized the issues and recommended that the Board affirm Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), Anna
Hamburg-Gal’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) with modifications. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Washington seconded the motion, the motion passed with

four ayes and one nay; Member Snyder opposed.
2.

Case No. S-CA-14-063
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Village of Dixmoor

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
ALJ Kelly Coyle issued a RDO finding that the Village did not violate Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. She then
summarized the issues presented by the exceptions and responses that were filed. After her presentation, she gave
the Board alternate recommendations. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO with modifications.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
3.

Case No. S-CA-14-123
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Will County
Circuit Clerk

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
ALJ Deena Sanceda issued a RDO finding that the Employer violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act.

She then summarized the issues presented by the exceptions and responses that were filed. After her
presentation, she gave the Board alternate recommendations. After discussion, Member Snyder moved to
reject the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a
voice vote.

 4.

Case No. S-CB-16-023
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (State Police)/Troopers Lodge
#41, Fraternal Order of Police

General Counsel Nelson recused herself from the meeting due to illness. Chairman Hartnett asked Deputy General
Counsel Kerley to call the case and present General Counsel Nelson’s memo to the Board. Deputy General Counsel
Kerley stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal that was filed. After her presentation, she
recommended that the board remand the case for hearing. After discussion, Member Coli moved to remand the case
for hearing. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of August, 2016.

2

 