Minutes of Regular Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
April 9, 1991
Des Plaines, Illinois

The Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 10:00 a.m. on April
9, 1991 at 9511 Harrison, Des Plaines, Illinois. The meeting was scheduled by
previous action of the Board and notice was duly and timely given to each Board
member and to the general public in conformity with Section 2.02 of the Illinois
Open Meetings Act.
The following Board members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr., Chairman; and
Members William Chamblin, Robert Gibson, J. Thomas Johnson, and Raymond Niepert,
constituting a quorum of the Board.
Also present were Morton E. Friedman, Administrator; Joseph McQuaid, Deputy
Administrator for Enforcement; Marcy Wolf, Deputy Administrator for Audit; Donna
More, Chief Legal Counsel; Gaming Officer Commanders Larry Doiron, Roger Shiels,
Tom Biebel, William Eder; James Nelson, Assistant for Public Affairs and Acting
Secretary of the Board; the media and the general public.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Kunkle at 10:04 a.m.
acted as Secretary of the meeting.

Mr. Nelson

The first order of business was approval of the minutes of the Board meeting
held on January 15, 1991. Member Niepert moved and Member Gibson seconded a
motion to accept the minutes as submitted.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
by voice vote.

The motion was unanimously approved

The next order of business was the appointment of a Secretary to the Board.
Chairman called on the Administrator, Morton E. Friedman.

The

Mr. Friedman recommended that James A. Nelson, a member of the Gaming Board
staff, be appointed as Secretary of the Board. Member Johnson moved and Member
Niepert seconded a motion that James Nelson be appointed as Secretary of the
Board.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays. The motion was unanimously approved
by voice vote. In announcing the result, Chairman Kunkle noted for the record
that the previous Secretary, Mr. Frederick Baird, II had been appointed as the
Chief Counsel of the Illinois Department of Conservation and had tendered his
resignation as Secretary. The Chairman, on behalf of the Board, congratulated
Mr. Baird on his appointment and expressed the Board's appreciation for his
services.
The next order of business was a review of the Board's proposed rulemaking.
Chairman called on Mr. Friedman.

The

Mr. Friedman stated that pursuant to the forty-five (45) day 1st comment period,
the Board had received numerous written comments from the public. After staff
review, a written summary of the comments was prepared for Board review.
Before recommending any rule changes, Mr. Friedman stated that his focus in
rulemaking was to allow a Gaming Enterprise broad discretion in making private

 business decisions, while concentrating the regulatory responsibility of the
Gaming Board staff on the integrity of the games and the audit process. He said
he believed that the staff should not be directly involved in private business
decisions.
Mr. Friedman then reviewed the comments received concerning the licensing of
suppliers. The comments suggested that the definition of "Supplier" was
overboard. After review, Mr. Friedman agreed and, in a proposed rule change,
recommended that the licensing of suppliers be limited to suppliers of gaming
equipment and supplies. Mr. Friedman stated that going beyond would promote a
regulatory nightmare and not achieve a desirable result. He noted, however,
that the Board still maintained regulatory authority over the gaming enterprise
and key suppliers of the gaming enterprise, and would require that the holder of
an Owner's License purchase all goods and services from reputable suppliers. If
an Owner did not deal with reputable suppliers, disciplinary action could be
taken by the Board.
Mr. Friedman noted that the staff was recommending that the lessor of a docking
facility or vessels be added to the definition of gaming supplier.
Mr. Friedman stated that there were numerous minor changes to the proposed rules
and referred the members to the written summary of comments.
The Chairman then asked for discussion and recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson asked if the rule concerning "Gaming Equipment" should be
identified as "Gaming Equipment and Supplies" to more fully allow the rules to
track the specific definitional change of gaming equipment that staff was
suggesting.
Mr. Friedman agreed that the change should be made.
Member Johnson moved that the title on pages 7 and 14 and elsewhere where
appropriate be changed to read "Gaming Equipment/Supplies." Member Gibson
seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was approved unanimously.

The Chairman stated that recently there had been news reports of problems in New
Jersey concerning the possibility that certain labor unions involved in the
gaming industry had ties or associations to organized crime. The Chairman asked
for the Administrator's analysis of whether the broad term of "associations"
could include whether a labor union was exerting inappropriate control or
influence over the gaming enterprise?
Mr. Friedman stated that he was unable to respond specifically to the question
at the present time, but would review the matter. Mr. Friedman stated that the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union ("the Union"),
which was the Union involved in litigation with the Department of Justice, was
the same union that had indicated its' intent to organize Illinois riverboat
employees. He noted that this Union had been the representative of non-casino
employees in New Jersey and that he expected the same would be true in Illinois.
Nonetheless, he said that Illinois was still presented with the issue of whether
the union should have access to riverboat gaming. Mr. Friedman stated that he
had initiated discussions with the Justice Department regarding the matter. Mr.
Friedman said that he would provide the Board an update at its next meeting.

 The Chairman called for discussion and recognized Member Niepert.
Member Niepert stated that he believed that it would be only a matter of time
before attempts would be made to organize casino employees and asked that the
Administrator review that possibility.
Member Gibson noted that casino employees in Nevada were not members of a union,
but of an association.
Member Niepert responded that regardless of what term was used, the casino
employees had been picketing various Nevada casinos last Spring.
Mr. Friedman responded that he would review the situation and report back to the
Board. He further noted that there were limits to effective regulatory
authority and that he did not feel that the Board had the authority to decide
whether an individual could choose to join a union. He noted that under the
National Labor Relations Act that the choice was left to the individual and
regulated by the National Labor Relations Board.
Member Gibson noted that the Department of Justice is not responsible for
regulatory aspects of labor unions.
Mr. Friedman agreed and stated that the issue is a matter of collective
bargaining rights of workers and, that while there had been some attempt by New
Jersey to regulate who union officials were, such efforts were not successful.
Member Niepert stated that he was not suggesting that the Board should have any
regulatory authority over the rights of workers to organize, but that he wanted
to be sure that the staff would be keeping abreast of union activity and
assessing the potential effect on Illinois.
Member Gibson stated that he had read some news accounts that suggested that the
Board would have some authority to license a union. He stated that under
Illinois law, the Board did not have such authority; that only the National
Labor Relations Board had such authority. He also said that workers have a
right to democratically choose representation by a union and that the Owners
have a responsibility to recognize that action and the union selected. Member
Gibson stated that he was confident that the Board's licensing of riverboat
employees would provide a major safeguard against infiltration of organized
crime into Illinois' gaming industry.
The Chairman agreed with Member Gibson's observations and stated that he had
broached the subject due to the amount of press concerning the subject.
Chairman Kunkle asked for additional member comments concerning comments
received from first notice rulemaking. There were no further comments.
The next agenda item concerned proposed rulemaking that was being presented for
Board approval prior to being filed with the Secretary of State for First
Notice. One particular proposed rule dealt with the issue of winter cruising.
The Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman.
Mr. Friedman reviewed the instructions issued by the Board at the Special
Meeting of January 15, 1991 wherein the staff had been directed to draft a
proposed rule that would allow a casino to operate during inclement weather.
Mr. Friedman described the content of proposed rule 3000.610, stressing that the
Captain, who is licensed by the U.S. Coast Guard, has the responsibility to

 determine whether or not the vessel can safely operate. If the Captain
determines that the riverboat can not safely leave the dock or must return
thereto, the owner must make a report to the Board detailing the reasons for
that determination. Mr. Friedman stated that in the event the riverboat could
not leave the dock, the gangplank, or its equivalent would be raised for the
period of time the dockside excursion took place.
The Chairman called for discussion of the proposal and recognized Member
Johnson.
Member Johnson asked whether ingress or egress would be permitted during a
dockside excursion.
Mr. Friedman responded that based on the legislative intent of the statute, the
rule was drafted to reflect that the boat was not meant to be a "walk-in, walkout" operation.
Member Gibson noted that certain situations may require that patrons be allowed
to exit the riverboat during a scheduled "dockside excursion". He cited the
example of a malfunction in the heating system during the winter. Thus, Member
Gibson suggested the proposed rule address such occurrences.
Mr. Friedman responded that he did not foresee the situation where an owner
would prohibit a patron from leaving under those conditions and suggested that
the Board may wish to change the language to allow egress.
Member Johnson moved that the proposed rule be amended so that only ingress of
patrons during the period of a dockside excursion would be prohibited. Member
Gibson seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was approved unanimously.

The Chairman asked for further questions and recognized Member Niepert.
Member Niepert noted that he believed that the owners should document all
dockside excursions according to a standard procedure. The Administrator agreed
that documentation was important as an audit record.
The Chairman asked if forms were required to be filed with the proposed rule.
Mr. Friedman responded that the Board would require written notification of such
action.
The Chairman asked if the Board had authority to take action against an owner
who was abusing the dockside excursion rule. Mr. Friedman responded that the
Board did have such the authority.
The Chairman recognized Mr. Michael Ficaro, attorney for Rock Island Boat Works.
Mr. Ficaro asked whether the rule contemplated an owner's ability to change the
length of a cruise during the winter season. He noted that some owners might
wish to shorten the cruise time during certain times of the year.
Mr. Friedman responded that it was not the intention of the staff's proposal to
require any particular length of cruise time other than to reflect the statutory
maximum cruise limit of four hours. The Chairman suggested that the words "four
hours" be deleted to reflect that owners could schedule cruises of shorter
duration.

 Member Johnson moved that the words, "four (4) hours" be deleted from subsection
(c) of rule 3000.610. Member Niepert seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was approved unanimously.

Chairman Kunkle also noted that in subsection (d) of rule 3000.610 the word
"bases" should be "basis." Mr. Friedman said that the spelling correction would
be made.
The Board also discussed the draft rules relating to casino credit (3000.1150
and 1160). Mr. Friedman stated he first wished to highlight a portion of the
proposed rulemaking that resulted in a good deal of discussion between the staff
and representatives of the industry. He noted that in the preparation of these
proposed rules, the staff had actively sought input from other gaming
jurisdictions and the gaming industry. Mr. Friedman stressed, however, that
even though staff had already received industry input, the proposed rules would
still be subject to the forty-five (45) day comment period.
Mr. Friedman stated that one area of disagreement between staff and the industry
was in the area of credit. The proposed rules limit credit instruments to the
cashing of personal checks, bank cards and the advance deposit of cash by a
patron. The rules would seek to prohibit a casino from initiating its own
system of credit for patrons. Mr. Friedman noted that one of the groups
involved in the discussions, the Fitzgeralds Group, had submitted their position
regarding credit in writing and had also agreed to appear before the Board to
present their view point. Mr. Friedman asked leave of the Board to hear from
Mr. Phillip D. Griffith, President of Fitzgeralds Group. Leave was granted.
Mr. Griffith stated that the business plan submitted with Fitzgeralds Group's
application for an owner's license was partially targeted at the "higher
budgeted gaming customer." He stated that while he was not advocating the
antiquated system of credit that had once been used in Nevada, he was suggesting
that owner's be allowed to institute a "hold check" system. Mr. Griffith stated
he was proposing four items he felt were needed: the issuance of counter checks;
the ability for a patron to buy back a check after play; the ability for a
patron to leave money on account with the casino for use at a later date; and
hold checks.
Mr. Griffith explained that a hold check system allowed a casino to hold a
patron's check upon request for a certain period of time. Mr. Griffith stated
that he was proposing that hold checks be allowed in amounts of up to $1000 and
held no longer than eight (8) working days. He added that he was also
suggesting that persons not be allowed to present multiple checks. He concluded
that this system was necessary if Illinois riverboat casinos were to be able to
attract the higher budgeted customer.
Member Johnson asked what the hold periods were in Nevada.
Mr. Griffith responded that generally checks between $2500 and $5000 could be
held for up to 30 days and that larger amounts could be held for longer periods
of time.
Member Johnson asked what dollar volume was not honored at the end of the hold
period.
Mr. Griffith responded that generally 1% or less is not honored.

 The Chairman recognized Mr. Ficaro, the attorney for the Rock Island group.
Mr. Ficaro stated that he endorsed a system of credit, but that the Board should
modify the plan, suggested by Mr. Fitzgerald. He cited Illinois criminal law
that prohibits a person from knowingly writing a check for which there are not
sufficient funds available. Mr. Ficaro stated that if the Board decided to go
forward with a credit mechanism that the mechanism be structured so that a
licensee would not be part of committing deception, a Class A misdemeanor.
Mr. Griffith suggested allowing post dating of checks.
Chairman Kunkle stated that Mr. Ficaro was correct and he (Chairman Kunkle) was
not convinced that post dating the check would resolve the issue.
Mr. Friedman stated that post dated checks do not represent funds on deposit.
He added that he does not see the issue as a Criminal Code issue but rather as a
social policy judgement.
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Griffith whether he was advocating the pure credit
system of Nevada.
Mr. Griffith responded that he was not advocating such a system. He was,
however, suggesting a system where persons could gamble greater amounts of
money, but with the limitations he had previously discussed.
Chairman Kunkle asked for clarification whether a patron would be given a pink
slip or be given credit on the floor and subsequently a marker is created or buy
back of marker with winnings.
Mr. Griffith responded that the procedures had not been discussed but he
surmised that the procedure would be the same as other jurisdictions.
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Friedman if the above situation constituted "credit"
as defined in the rules and would therefor be a violation of Board rules. The
Chairman clarified that he was not discussing the issue of hold checks, but only
the situation where a player has an established line of credit with the casino
wherein part of the agreement was that at the end of the session the patron
would settle any debt with either a counter check or personal check.
Mr. Friedman responded that the aforementioned scenario would violate the rules
as they were currently proposed.
Mr. Friedman stated that he that had additional concerns regarding the credit
issue that he wished to bring to the Board's attention. He stated any system of
credit would increase the burden on Board staff, especially with respect to
junketeers who make credit representations to a casino. He stated that his
concern was that the casino would look to the junket operator to make good on
the individual debts of the people on his junket. Because junket operators are
generally located out of state, this would increase the difficulty of auditing
the gaming enterprise.
Chairman Kunkle asked why there would any additional burden on the Board if
taxes were collected based on the change in the cash position of the casino
regardless of any credit or collection procedures.

 Mr. Friedman responded that his question and concern was aimed at whether the
parties would adhere to applicable consumer protection laws.
Member Johnson asked whether the rules could prohibit the establishment of
credit by junketeers.
Mr. Friedman responded that he had not considered the option.
Chairman Kunkle observed that under the proposed rule and Mr. Griffith's hold
check proposal, junketeers would not be permitted to extend credit.
Mr. Friedman agreed with the observation, but noted that an assumption could be
made that a junketeer would make a credit representation to a casino and the
ability of the junketeer to continue doing business with the casino would rely
on the accuracy of the credit representation.
Mr. Griffith stated that most junkets were comprised of people who know one
another and that it was not unusual for the organizer to "rate" the participants
in the group. Based on that information and checking with other gaming
jurisdictions, it would be possible for the casino to establish a credit limit.
Member Johnson asked whether a casino has the ability to seek payment of a bad
debt from the organizer.
Mr. Griffith responded that he has never done business in that way.
Member Johnson asked Mr. Friedman if his concern was whether the collection of a
debt could include individuals beyond the individual whose credit was
established.
Mr. Friedman responded, yes.
Member Johnson asked whether staff concerns could be remedied by changing the
rule to prohibit a casino from holding a junket operator responsible for credit
or hold checks provided to individuals on the junket.
Mr. Friedman responded that he was unable to provide an answer and suggested
that consideration of the proposed rule prohibiting credit be postponed to the
next Board meeting at which time staff would present a regulatory scheme which
provided for credit.
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Griffith whether the issue of allowing hold checks was
a critical element to the success of gaming.
Mr. Griffith responded that their business plan was developed to respond to the
type of individuals for whom hold checks would be necessary to attract their
ongoing patronage and, in that respect, it was important.
Mr. Ficaro added that Rock Island Boat Works was in the position of direct
competition with Iowa boats and that flexibility was needed to compete. He
noted that the proposal being made was tightly constructed, but allowed the
owners to make the choice of whether they would allow hold checks.
Member Johnson moved that proposed rules 3000.1150 (a) and 3000.1160 (a) be
stricken and that the staff be directed to present alternatives to the Board.
Member Chamblin seconded the motion.

 Chairman Kunkle invited discussion on the motion.
Chairman Kunkle asked Member Johnson if the intent of his motion was to instruct
staff to limit the concept of repaying a casino that issues loans or allowed
hold checks to an eight (8) day limit.
Member Johnson responded that was correct and that in redrafting the credit
rule, the staff should take into account any applicable statutory prohibition
for accepting a hold check.
Chairman Kunkle stated that it was clear that the staff should not draft a rule
that would allow "pure credit."
Member Johnson noted that under the Cigarette Tax Act, cigarette distributors
are allowed to post date tax stamp payment checks for three weeks.
Chairman Kunkle then restated the motion allowing the casinos to issue credit
and called for the yeas and nays. The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business was an open review and discussion of the remaining
proposed rulemaking. The Chairman recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson first referred to rule 3000.170 and asked why "Board Licensee"
was replaced with "Holder of an Owner's License?"
Ms. Donna More, Chief Legal Counsel for the Board, responded that the change was
being suggested to have consistency throughout the rules.
Again in reference to rule 3000.170, Member Johnson asked if the Board should
review whether any licensee of the Board was paying beyond the fair market value
for activities, not just holders of an Owner's License.
Chairman Kunkle reminded the Board that the scope of licensing suppliers had
been significantly reduced and placed the responsibility of dealing with
reputable individuals on the holder of an Owner's License.
Member Johnson next turned to rule 3000.270 (d) and asked if this subsection was
in conflict with rule 3000.280. He noted that the prior prohibited possession
of a gaming device while the latter described how an owner could register a
gaming device in his possession.
Mr. Friedman responded that there was a problem and suggested that 3000.270 (d)
be stricken which would allow 3000.280 to control until appropriate language
could be provided to the Board.
Member Johnson moved that the Administrator's recommendation be adopted.
motion was not seconded.

The

Mr. Friedman suggested that in rule 3000.280 the words "intends to possess" be
inserted after the word "who" and that the word "possesses" be stricken.
Member Johnson moved that the Administrator's recommendation be adopted.
Gibson seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

Member

The motion was unanimously approved.

 Member Johnson next turned to rule 3000.716 and asked if the amount of $1,199.99
paid out to a patron was the amount required by the Internal Revenue Service.
Mr. Friedman responded that the amount was accurate and that there was concern
within the industry because the practice has been to report such payouts only on
electronic devices and not on table games. He further explained that the issue
was one of correct collection of income taxes. He noted that Mr. Griffith might
wish to comment on the matter.
Mr. Griffith stated that there were federal regulations concerning reporting
requirements that had been agreed to between the Internal Revenue Service and
the industry. He said that 3000.716 goes beyond federal law and regulation and
would be problematic for the owners. He noted that the industry currently
reports W-2G and Non-resident and Alien reports as well as several other reports
required by federal law and regulation.
Mr. Friedman stated that the intent of the rule was to comply with applicable
Internal Revenue Service regulations and that the rule would be redrafted. Mr.
Friedman suggested that the Board strike the provisions of 3000.716 and that
staff prepare alternative language.
Member Chamblin moved that the Administrator's recommendation be adopted.
Member Gibson seconded the motion.
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was unanimously approved.

Member Johnson next turned to rule 3000.760. He asked if the payout percentage
on electronic games of 80% was the regulatory standard in Nevada and Atlantic
City.
Mr. Friedman responded that it was.
Member Niepert questioned whether the reference to a maximum payout not
exceeding 100% was necessary.
Mr. Friedman responded that if a casino had electronic gaming devices that were
paying in excess of 100%, either the owner would go out of business or the owner
would steer certain individuals to that machine creating a potential method of
skimming profits from a casino.
Member Niepert asked if the standards referred to each machine or all the
machines in total.
Mr. Friedman responded each machine was to meet the standard.
Member Johnson next turned to Subpart J of the rules which addressed the issue
of liquor licenses. He noted the rule stated "The Illinois Liquor Control
Commission shall issue Riverboat liquor licenses to holders of an Owner's
License..." He questioned whether the Gaming Board had any authority to require
a particular action of another agency of state government.
Mr. Friedman responded that the term "shall" is related to the Liquor Control
Act and that the Liquor Control Act controls the issuing of liquor licenses. He
went on to explain that the proposed Subpart was an attempt to coordinate
efforts with the Liquor Control Commission and avoid duplicating regulatory
functions.

 Member Johnson next turned to rule 3000.1030 (a). He asked whether the proposed
rule allowed patrons to consume alcoholic beverages only during an excursion.
Ms. More responded that subsection (b) of the rule allowed consumption while
boarding, but that staff was concerned about owners opening beverage service far
ahead of the scheduled excursion time. She also noted that the rule was
necessary to allow the Administrator to set the hours of sale and thus avoid
potential conflicts with local ordinances which might limit the times when
liquor could be sold.
Chairman Kunkle and Member Johnson observed that when subsection (a) and (b) are
read independently, they appear to conflict with each other.
Chairman Kunkle suggested that subsection (a) be stricken and subsection (b)
become the rule in its entirety. He stated that subsection (b) would cover the
necessary regulatory need and that (a) was unneeded. The Administrator agreed.
Member Johnson moved that subsection (a) of rule 3000.1030 be stricken and that
the word "(b)" be stricken. Member Gibson seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

The motion was unanimously approved.

Member Johnson next turned to rule 3000.1182.
explanation of the rule.

Member Johnson asked for an

Chairman Kunkle observed that the purpose of the rule was to assure that a
casino was required to maintain sufficient cash to pay patrons their winnings.
Mr. Friedman stated that staff believed it essential for the casino to maintain
adequate cash to pay patrons and if the cash position of the casino began to
deteriorate, the Board could take disciplinary action against the casino for a
violation of the rules.
Chairman Kunkle asked if either Nevada or New Jersey had quantified adequate
cash amounts.
Mr. Friedman stated that he did not recall.
Chairman Kunkle asked if Mr. Griffith wished to comment on Nevada requirements.
Mr. Griffith responded that during the initial licensing procedures, applicants
were required to complete a form related to bank roll issues. This allowed the
casino and Nevada authorities to review the cash position but he stated that
there was no magic formula that could be used to assure complete accuracy.
Chairman Kunkle asked if the staff could continue work on developing a formula
to assure adequate cash reserves.
Mr. Friedman responded that a formula could be developed, but stressed that such
a formula would be adjustable, giving the Board a judgment call on a case by
case situation. Mr. Friedman stated that the issue was whether the casino was
solvent, and that staff needed an avenue to bring potential concerns to the
attention of the Board.
Member Johnson had no further questions.
Chairman Kunkle recognized Member Niepert.

 Member Niepert turned to rule 3000.240 (f). He asked whether there had been
discussion concerning the length of time a temporary occupational identification
badge could be effective.
Mr. Friedman responded that the length of time such badges would be effective
would depend on the time it would take to receive the results of the fingerprint
check required of employees.
Member Niepert observed that there would be a need for some level of
standardization.
Mr. Friedman responded that he agreed, but was not able to suggest a standard
until sometime in the future.
Member Niepert next turned to rule 3000.760, (b), (9).
explanation of the words "nonvolatile meters."

He asked for an

Mr. Friedman responded that the term was common to the gaming industry and
related to the changing of a number call.
Member Niepert had no further questions.
Member Johnson moved that the Board adopt the proposed rules, as amended on
April 9, 1991, including those amendments and changes voted on by the Board
during the Regular Meeting of April 9, 1991. Member Chamblin seconded the
motion.
The Chairman asked for discussion on the motion and recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson clarified the motion indicating that the proposed rulemaking that
had already completed the First Notice Comment Period was going to be submitted
for Second Notice and that the second set of proposed rulemaking that was
reviewed would be filed for the First Notice Period for the purpose of receiving
public comment.
Mr. Friedman responded that Member Johnson's clarification was correct.
Chairman Kunkle recognized Mr. Ficaro.
Mr. Ficaro stated that he had concerns regarding rule 3000.110. He stated that
he believed that the proposed rule was unconstitutionally vague and did not
advise holders of an owner's license with notice of what penalty would be
imposed for a violation of the Act or rules. Mr. Ficaro stated that without
such notice, a Holder of an Owner's license was at a disadvantage and cited rule
3000.160 as an example. Mr. Ficaro requested the Board adopt standards similar
to those in the arena of criminal law.
Chairman Kunkle asked the Administrator if rule 3000.110 was newly proposed and
thus subject to public comment under First Notice provisions.
Mr. Friedman responded that the Chairman's observation was incorrect, and noted
that both rule 3000.110 and 3000.160 were to be filed under Second Notice
provisions. Mr. Friedman stated he wished to offer comments beginning with rule
3000.160, which deals with Owner responsibility to report misconduct. He stated
that the reason this rule had been proposed was that in other jurisdictions,
when, for example, a dealer had been found cheating, instead of the burdensome

 task of discharge procedures and potential litigation, owners simply allowed the
dealer to resign. Subsequently, the dealer showed up the next day in another
casino which may or may not know the circumstances under which the employee had
left the prior employer. Mr. Friedman stated that the promulgation of this
particular rule was a protection for the owner and the general public by
requiring confidential reports of employee misconduct.
Turning next to rule 3000.110, Mr. Friedman stated that Mr. Ficaro's
observations were correct and that staff had intentionally proposed the rule as
written. The staff did not recommend specific fines for specific violations
because the staff believed that the Board needed the flexibility to take action
against an Owner who found it economically acceptable to willfully violate a
rule. He noted that the introductory paragraph was nearly identical to other
jurisdictions.
Mr. Ficaro stated that regardless of whether other jurisdictions were similar,
the holder of an Owner's license had a substantial investment and this rule
offered no protection from the possibility of license revocation. He stated the
rules should clearly state the grounds under which the Board could revoke a
license. Mr. Ficaro noted that owners should not be held accountable to the
point of license revocation due to the conduct of an employee.
Mr. Friedman responded that the rule was drafted to protect the public and
enhance the authority of the Board. It was not intended to benefit the Holder
of an Owner's license. He noted that if an owner was not prepared to accept
responsibility for the conduct of employees, that owner did not belong in the
gaming business. Mr. Friedman further noted that if an owner did find an
employee cheating and took the required action required under rule 3000.160 by
reporting the situation, there would be no violation of the rules by the owner.
Mr. Ficaro reiterated that while he had no issue with reporting misconduct of
employees, he took issue with an owner facing the possibility of revocation of
his license due to the misconduct of the employee.
Chairman Kunkle stated that if the report of the misconduct was made, the rule
would be satisfied and no revocation would occur.
The Chairman recognized Mr. George Cowell of Altheimer and Gray, counsel for the
Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation.
Mr. Cowell asked whether portions of the proposed rules were no longer subject
to public comment.
Chairman Kunkle responded that those portions of the rules which were being
filed under Second Notice provisions had already been through the public comment
period.
Mr. Cowell stated that his firm had only recently be retained as counsel and had
not been able to submit written comment.
Chairman Kunkle responded that the statutory comment period had expired, that
the Board had reviewed the summary of comments received, amended the proposed
rules in response to those comments and that those proposed rules would be filed
for Second Notice without further public comment. He noted that the second set
of proposed rules were to be filed under the First Notice provisions and would
be subject to public comment.

 The Chairman restated the motion and called for the yeas and nays.
was approved unanimously.

The motion

The Chairman called for New Business and recognized Member Johnson.
Member Johnson asked if a new rule should be promulgated to empower the Board to
not only review changes to the license, but also to approve significant changes.
He stated that he had read in the newspapers that some applicants who had been
found preliminarily suitable by the Board had announced changes to their
operations. Member Johnson questioned the authority of an applicant to change
the operation without the Board's approval. Member Johnson cited as an example
the Alton Partnership. Alton's application stated that their boat would have a
capacity of 2500, but that, according to news accounts, the partnership now had
stated its intent to begin operations with a significantly smaller vessel.
Member Johnson asked for the Administrator's comments.
Mr. Friedman responded that it was his opinion that the owner had no right
whatsoever to deviate from his proposed plan and that the Board held the sole
authority to grant permission for the owner to conduct a final practice gaming
excursion and that relevant questions would be resolved at that time. He stated
that in regard to the Alton situation, that he had discussed the situation with
Mr. J. Thomas Long, Managing Partner of Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership and
that he had indicated to Mr. Long that he, personally, had no problem with the
efforts of the partnership beginning their operation sooner with a smaller
temporary boat, but that the Board would have final approval of any changes to
the application.
Member Johnson stated that he was concerned that there was an assumption that
Alton would be operational by July 4, 1991 and that the Board would provide
whatever approvals were necessary.
Chairman Kunkle interjected that the Board had not made such commitments.
Member Johnson stated that he agreed with the Chairman's position, but he was
concerned that the press had given a perception that the Board had made such
commitments.
Chairman Kunkle stated that the press should not make such assumptions and that
neither should the applicants.
Member Johnson stated that it was his opinion that a substitute boat was
unacceptable without a commitment from the owner that the boat that was
originally proposed would be operational in a given period of time, and that he
had serious problems with any applicant making such significant changes to their
original application without the expressed approval of the Board.
Mr. Friedman stated that he agreed with Member Johnson's position and if any
applicant had not known of the Board's authority over such matters, such
questions would now be clearly answered.
Member Johnson further stated that the Board's decisions were based on the
contents of the applications filed and information concerning investments and
locations had an effect on how the Board voted. He stated that he believed that
any applicant who had deviated from their original application should appear
before the Board and present to the Board any proposed changes.
There was no further discussion.

The Chairman recognized Member Gibson.

 Member Gibson stated that he has been made aware, through press clippings and
legislation that had been introduced in the General Assembly, of "the so called
secrecy" of the actions of the Board. He stated that he believed the Board
should oppose legislation which would require the Board to disclose the reasons
an applicant was denied a finding of suitability for licensing. Member Gibson
stated that applicants would not want the reasons for denial known and that the
Board should take a public stance on the reasons the Board feels that some
discussions must take place in Executive Session.
Chairman Kunkle observed that the request
was in direct opposition to the Riverboat
Information Act ("FOIA"). He also stated
full compliance with these statutes. The
further comment.

for disclosure that had been received
Gambling Act and the Freedom of
that the Board had been operating in
Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman for

Mr. Friedman stated that there was a balance between what was genuinely public
information and what was confidential. He stated that beyond the legitimate
concerns that had been expressed by applicants, the ability of the staff to
access confidential information from a variety of sources would be eliminated
and the effect of that would be to destroy the ability of the staff to conduct
the comprehensive background investigations that the Board expected of all
applicants. Mr. Friedman stated that staff was working with Senator Denny
Jacobs and other members of the General Assembly in an attempt to resolve the
issue, but that he had severe problems with the contents of bills that had been
introduced.
Member Johnson asked whether the current interpretation of the statute was that
nothing in an application was subject to disclosure.
Mr. Friedman responded that he believed that there was some statutory discretion
whereby the need for confidentiality and the legitimate interests of the press
could be reconciled. He noted that pursuant to FOIA, all other licensing files
held by the State of Illinois were confidential. Mr. Friedman stated that for
reasons he did not fully understand, licensing files under the Riverboat
Gambling Act were being singled out as not having the same protections as other
licensing files held by the State. Mr. Friedman stated that the staff was in
conversation with the bill sponsors to resolve the issue, but that he wanted the
Board to understand the direction from which he was working toward a resolution.
Member Johnson asked if all Freedom of Information Requests had been denied.
Mr. Friedman responded that only one request had been received and that it had
been denied.
Member Johnson asked if investigatory files that were compiled with respect to
an application been requested.
Ms. More responded that the original request filed asked for copies of every
record connected with the original ten (10) applications filed for owner's
licenses. Subsequently, the request had been narrowed to two specific
applications, but again had requested all records.
Member Johnson asked whether any information in an application was subject to
disclosure.

 Ms. More responded that the Board routinely disclosed the names of the
investors, the location of the proposed site, and the names of the attorneys
representing the applicant. In addition, minutes of all Board meetings or
transcripts were available to the public upon request.
Member Johnson suggested that the Board establish a policy of what was currently
available because clearly the Board had been releasing certain information.
Mr. Friedman suggested that the staff prepare a rule for the Board's
consideration.
Member Johnson agreed to the suggestion and stated that what had been reported
in the press and the actual practice of the Board were two different things and
the press reports were not representative of the Board's practices. He
continued that background information and certain financial information about an
investor should be privileged as a matter of public policy. However, disclosure
of information concerning the total investment of the operation to be
implemented and other financial information should be a policy matter determined
by the Board.
Chairman Kunkle observed that the owners themselves had presented public
presentations at previous meetings that had included brochures and video tapes.
He suggested that the owners themselves be more responsive to the media.
Member Johnson stated that he had read editorials which indicated that the
editorial writers did not know what the existing practice of the Board was
regarding the release of information.
Chairman Kunkle responded the it was the practice of the Board to follow the law
and that those who had contacted him, the Administrator and the Chief Legal
Counsel were made aware of the law, but had chosen to ignore the fact that the
Board was in compliance with the law when they wrote the editorials.
There was no further discussion.

Chairman Kunkle next recognized Mr. Ficaro.

Mr. Ficaro stated that during a previous meeting with the staff, Rock Island
Boatworks had requested that the game Big 6 be included in the regulatory list
of games available to be played. He stated the staff had suggested that the
request be presented to the Board. He noted that Big 6 was a common casino
game.
Mr. Friedman responded that Mr. Ficaro make his request as a written comment to
the rules and that the Board delay consideration of the request.
Member Johnson asked what was the staff's estimate for presenting round two
license investigations to the Board.
Mr. Friedman responded that he believed the presentations would be made by
August, 1991 and that if staff could be in a position to present them sooner,
they would do so. He stated that the staff's first priority had been to
concentrate on preparing the proposed rulemaking and getting first round boats
operational.
Member Johnson suggested to the Chair that he believed it appropriate that as
the applicants were implementing their plans that the Administrator make a
report to the Board as a regular agenda item concerning the status of each
applicant. Such a report should include any deviation from the original

 application that was approved by the Board. Member Johnson further stated that
he believed that the Board should schedule a special meeting with the Alton
Partnership to discuss reports of the reduced boat capacity and the rumor that
one of the key investors was dropping out of the partnership. Such changes
would require Board approval.
Mr. Friedman interjected that the Alton Partnership also needed to submit their
internal controls for review 90 days prior to beginning operations.
Member Johnson asked if the internal controls had been submitted.
Mr. Friedman responded that they had not.
Member Johnson asked if the announced July 4, 1991 was not less than 90 days
away.
Mr. Friedman responded that it was. He stated that he believed the Alton group
would understand the Board's concerns and, if the partnership believed it could
begin operations in July, that the Board could schedule a Special Meeting for
finalizing the application.
Member Johnson stated he wanted to go on record as saying the Alton Riverboat
Gambling Partnership had not met the requirements of the regulations because the
applicant had not submitted the internal control plans for the review of the
Board and that for the applicant to be operational on July 4, 1991 those plans
were have to been submitted by April 4, 1991. He said the press and public
believed that the applicant was going to be operational in July and that was not
going to be the case. He stated that the Board had been doing everything
possible to assist getting the boat in the water, but that since the applicant
had failed to meet their regulatory responsibilities it would be impossible for
them to meet their own deadline. Member Johnson wanted to stress that the Board
should not be held as a target for blame for what is beyond the Board's ability
to control. Member Johnson stated that the applicant should appear before the
Board so that the Board and the public can be informed of the status of their
operations and can be held responsible for their actions.
There was no further discussion.
The Chairman asked for further new business. There being none, Member Gibson
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Member Chamblin seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
and the Board adjourned at 12:19 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

_____________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary

sao-mins

The motion was approved unanimously

 