STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on June 13, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 7, 2013

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the May 7, 2013 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

LEGISLATIVE AND FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report, reviewing in
detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned various
aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-13-035
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ County of Cook

Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on March 25, 2013
the Executive Director issued a partial dismissal alleging in part that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the
Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then asked Counsel Kazanjian to review the issues raised
by the Charging Party’s appeal. After his presentation, Counsel Kazanjian recommended that the Executive
Director's partial dismissal be sustained in part and reversed in part. Member Lewis moved to affirm the dismissal
of the alleged unilateral change and remand for issuance of a complaint for hearing on the matter of the
Respondent’s alleged failure to provide relevant information. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-13-025
Anthony Mayes/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that the
Executive Director issued a dismissal on March 21, 2013 and that the Charging Party filed an appeal alleging that
Respondent violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. After General Counsel Post
presented and discussed the issues of the case, Charging Party’s appeal, and Respondent’s response, he
recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson made

 a motion to affirm the dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
not necessary at this time.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of July, 2013.

2

 