Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
May 25, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, May 25, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois at 9:03
A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Steve
Dolins, Thomas Dunn and Member Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of April 21, 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT/COMMENTS –
Chairman Tracy commented on the minority spending by the casinos and Member Robinson
commended the casinos on updating their websites.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Darren Van Dover – General Manager – Harrah's Joliet
Mr. Van Dover thanked the Board and staff for all their hard work and stated what a privilege it
was working with them. Mr. Van Dover will be taking another position with Harrah's in Kansas
City.
Proposed Rulemaking – Sheera Hobfoll
Member Dunn moved to amend the Riverboat Gambling Rules by creating Rule 273 by
authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon
final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial/Final Consideration

(Board Action / Vote Required)

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Request for Initial Consideration of Transfer of Ownership and Change in Form of Entity
(Key Person), Request for Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule, and Request for Final
Consideration of Transfer of Ownership and Change in Form of Entity (Key Person)
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation the Board waive
its two meeting rule to approve the transfer of ownership interest in Des Plaines Development

 Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel from Des Plaines Development
Corporation to Des Plaines Development Holdings, LLC; and further approve Des Plaines
Development Holdings, LLC as a Key Person of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel – Greg
A. Sitar – Director of Casino Operations – Level 1
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve Greg A. Sitar as a Level One Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of
Casino Operations for Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet
Casino & Hotel. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Chy Stewart – Vice President of Casino
Operations – Level 1
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve Chy Stewart as a Level One Occupational Licensee in her position as Vice President
of Casino Operations for HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer's Casino and Hotel – Mark Edward Bennett
– President and General Manager – Level 1
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve Mark Edward Bennett as a Level One Occupational Licensee in his position as
President and General Manager for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer's Casino
& Hotel. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino Change in Legal Form of Entity of Key Person
Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move that the
Board approve the transfer of ownership interest in Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises,
Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino through its parent, from Caesars Entertainment Operating
Company Inc. to CEOC, LLC; and further approve CEOC, LLC as a Key Person of Southern
Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Change in Legal Form of Entity of Key Person

2

 Member Dolins moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve the transfer of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet
Casino & Hotel's 80% ownership interest from Harrah's Illinois Corporation, to Harrah's Illinois,
LLC and approve the transfer of ownership interest through its parent from Caesars
Entertainment Operating Company Inc. to CEOC, LLC and further approve CEOC, LLC and
Harrah's Illinois, LLC, as a Key Persons of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

Caesar's Entertainment Corporation's Refinancing Plan
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move that
the Board approve CEOC, LLC to enter into a $1.235 billion Senior Secured Term Facility and a
$200 million Senior Secured Revolving Facility, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino and Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, consistent with
the terms outlined in documents provided to the Board. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino, and
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel Caesar's Entertainment Corporation's Reorganizational Plan
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, the Board
approve the requests from Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's
Metropolis Casino and Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet
Casino & Hotel to enter into lease agreements substantially in the form provided to the Board,
through their parent, CEOC. LLC, with VICI Properties 1, LLC (the REIT), and further approve
the transfer or distribution of their real estate assets to CEOC, LLC and its transfer or distribution
of those real estate assets to VICI Properties 1, LLC through its owners VICI Properties LP and
VICI Properties GP LLC consistent with the terms outlined in documents provided to the Board.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration

(Board Action Required)

VICI Properties 1, LLC. – Initial Supplier License
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff's investigation and recommendation, I move that
the Board issue a Supplier License to VICI Properties 1, LLC for a period of one year, expiring
in May 2018, and find the following entities and individuals suitable as Key Persons:

VICI Properties Inc.

VICI Properties LP

John Payne

3

 Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move to
find suitable and approve 82 Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 111 Level 3 Occupational
Licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to:
1. Justin Maurice Poole.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests for Hearing & Requests to Reapply
Member Dunn moved that based on the information provided in her request for hearing, the
Board rescind its April 2017 denial of Ms. Andrea Ciriaco's application, and place her
application back into a Pending status. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that based on the information provided in his request to reapply, I move
that the Board allow Mr. Patrick Wadlow to reapply for an Occupational License after payment
of the fine issued by the Board in December 2015. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move that
the Board revoke the Level 3 Occupational License of Daniela Degrado due to her recent felony
conviction; this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an
Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move that
the Board revoke the Occupational License of Jason Terry Scoby for engaging in theft, this
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, I move to
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice
Hotel Casino, fining it $125,000 for allowing an individual on the Self-Exclusion list to enter
the gaming area within the admission turnstiles, obtain funds for gambling purposes, and gamble,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to

4

 the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson commented on the severity of the on the violation which occurred at Par-ADice Casino regarding the Self-Exclusion List along with Chairman Tracy who commended
them on their cooperation with staff.
At 9:29 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 