STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on March 11, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of
the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board (participated by telephone-conference); John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan, Sharon B. Wells, and Sylvia Rios acted as counsel
to the Board at this meeting. Chairman Gallagher was absent due to illness. Member Hade chaired the
meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Member Hade called for approval of the minutes of the February 20, 2008 meeting. Member Hernandez
moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion—three in favor, none
against—Member Hade abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Member Hade asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for the
period of time from February 1 through February 29, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-CA-07-121
1.
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/County of Lee

Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Wells' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case Nos. S-RC-05-090 and S-RC-07-016
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 294/American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois, Departments of Central Management
Services and Corrections
Case No. S-RC-07-006
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services/Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers
International Union, Local 2002
Member Hade called the cases. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Clifford's recommendation with the sole exception
of his determination that some of the petitioned-for investigators were security employees within the
meaning of the Act, reasoning that given the ALJ's findings, it was unnecessary for the Board to reach that
question. The Board Members briefly recapped their February 20 discussion on this matter, after which
Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-04-341
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/DuPage County
Public Defender
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-RC-08-011
4.
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 710/Village of Burnham
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-CB-06-020
5.
East St. Louis Housing Authority/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-RC-06-081
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 456/Village of Western Springs
Member Hade called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan summarized
the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Kazanjian's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-06-115
Aurora Sergeants Association/City of Aurora
Member Hade called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed
the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Clifford's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
8.
Case Nos. S-CB-07-018
DeAngelo T. Franklin/Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council
Member Hade summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on December
4, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios briefly reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal. Member Coli moved to accept the acting
general counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
9.
Case No. S-CA-08-036
East Moline Fire Fighters Association, Local 929, International Association of Fire
Fighters/City of East Moline
Member Hade began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Wells briefly detailed her review of
the matter and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's order deferring the case pending
completion of the parties' contractual grievance process. Member Piper moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
2

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Hade noted that there was no fiscal report and the only legislative matter of interest was the
agency's March 5 House budget hearing, which was routine. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there
was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hade called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of April, 2008.

3

 