th
March 8
, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:18 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “3/8/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Andre Youngblood, Alejandro Silva, Johnny Miller.

PUBLIC COMMENT: Alderman Patrick Thompson, Brooke Ohnmeis, Benjamin Huey, Michael Payne,
Tommy Sams, Ken Franklin.
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
February 8th, 2017. Mr. Miller moved for approval and the motion was seconded by Mr. Silva. The
motion passed with six yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Items 5-A and
ordinances making appointments to the Retirement Plan for Chicago Transit Authority Employees
the Chicago Transit Authority Retiree Health Care Trust. Mr. Miller moved for approval and the mot
was seconded by Mr. Silva. The motion was approved with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Agenda item number 5-C, a resolution sett
the time of the June 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting. Ms. Alva Rosales moved for app
and the motion was seconded by Mr. Irvine. The motion was approved with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Agenda item number 5-D, an ordinance ele
a Vice-Chairman of the Chicago Transit Board. Mr. Silva moved for approval and the motio
seconded by Mr. Miller. The motion was approved with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve an ordinance appointing members to certa
standing committees of the Chicago Transit Board. Mr. Youngblood moved for approval and the m
was seconded by Mr. Irvine. The motion was approved with six yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Acting Chairman Alva Rosales pres
th
the report. The committee approved the
, 2016
July 16
committee minutes. Ms. Alva Rosales also
stated that that all Committee agenda items, listed on the Board agenda, were presented,
discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Ms. Alva Rosales conclu
her report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The committ
th
reviewed the monthly report on Finance, and approved the
February
8
, 2017
committee
meeting
minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all Committee agenda items, listed on the Board agend
presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board appro
Silva concluded his report.

 Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Directors Alva Rosales
Silva. Mr. Silva moved for approval and the motion was seconded by Mr. Youngblood. The motion
approved with six yes votes.
All approved March 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-19 through 017-27.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”, March
th
8 , 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.

th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2017
the March
Chicago
8
Transit Board meeting. The motion was moved by Mr. Irvine and approved by unanimous voice vot

 