STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on March 6, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—320 West Washington Street, Suite 500, Spfld, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Nicole Hildebrand, Fiscal
Officer; and staff members. John F. Brosnan acted as general counsel to the Board for this meeting.
Member Coli was absent due to illness.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 6, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the February 6, 2007 meeting. Member Piper
moved to approve the minutes. Member Hernandez seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from February 1 through February 28, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board
for review, and the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights, noting
that during the month, the agency issued one certification pursuant to a representation election, five
certifications pursuant to majority interest petitions, one certification of voluntary recognition, nine
certifications pursuant to unit clarification petitions, two certifications directed pursuant to unit
clarification petitions, one amendment of certification, one revocation of certification, and one
administrative dismissal. The agency also received withdrawals in connection with two representation
petitions, and the agency's Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) issued Recommended Decisions and
Orders (RDOs) in two representation cases. The Executive Director also noted that with regard to unfair
labor practice cases, the agency issued nine complaints for hearing and twenty-seven administrative
dismissals, five deferrals, and had twenty-eight charges withdrawn.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-UC-06-035
1.
Village of Bloomingdale/Service Employees International Union, Local 73

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the Village opposed the inclusion of the
Executive Secretary and Executive Secretary/Deputy Clerk titles, claiming that the employees in the titles
were "confidential" under Section 3(c) of the Act. Acting General Counsel Brosnan noted that the ALJ
determined that the Village's employee in the Executive Secretary/Deputy Clerk title is a confidential
employee under Section 3(c) of the Act and excluded from collective bargaining, and further noted that
no party had excepted to that finding. He asked whether the Board wished to review that portion of the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so. Next, he noted that the ALJ deemed the
Village's confidential argument insufficient to exclude from collective bargaining, the four, petitioned-for
employees in the Executive Secretary title and that the Village disputes the ALJ's conclusion in that
regard. He also noted that on December 15, the Village filed a motion to introduce evidence unavailable
at the time of the hearing. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the issues.
At the conclusion thereof, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation and deny the

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

Village's motion. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-06-049
St. Charles Professional Firefighters Association, International Association of Firefighters,
Local 3322/City of St. Charles
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the ALJ dismissed the complaint, finding
that Charging Party Union filed the underlying charge nine days too late, and that the Union takes
exception to that determination. Acting General Counsel Brosnan noted that the issue is when did the
Union learn of Respondent's retaliation in response to its grievance, and further noted that the ALJ
concluded that the Union knew of the alleged unlawful conduct, or reasonably should have known of it,
on February 21, 2005, but failed to file the instant charge until August 30, 2005, at least nine days too
late. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a short discussion of the record evidence with
regard to whether the charge was timely filed. At the conclusion thereof, Member Piper moved to accept
the ALJ's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed a report regarding legislative matters, and discussed newly introduced
legislation that may affect the Act. The Board members then questioned and discussed various aspects of
that report. The Chairman and Board Members also discussed the House budget hearings scheduled for
the end of the month. At the conclusion thereof, Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand distributed a report on
the FY'08 Initial Budget comparisons and briefly discussed it. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether
there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of April, 2007.

2

 