MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
SEPTEMBER 17, 1996
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on September 17,
1996 in the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F.
Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy
Administrators Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal
Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public
and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Pyatt
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Browder seconded the motion.
unanimous consent.

The Board adopted the motion by

The Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:13 p.m.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open
and closed sessions of the August 20, 1996 regular meeting. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Johnson announced that the October meeting date would be moved
from October 29 to October 30. No objections were stated.

1

 The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire reported that Adjusted Gross Receipts ("AGR") for August
1996 totaled $89.9 million, the lowest AGR figure since February, 1995, down slightly
more than $1 million (approx. 1%) from July 1996.
A review of the boat by boat figures shows a significant drop off for both Joliet
operations. Empress fell below last month’s historic low and is down 38 percent from
its August 1995 level. Harrah’s improved slightly from July, but is down 23 percent from
its total a year ago. The Administrator stated that both operations are heavily affected
by Indiana activity.
Attendance showed positive increases for both Harrah’s and Empress. In
response to a question asked by Chairman Johnson, Administrator Belletire stated that
the WIN per Admission at the Hammond, IN operation is about $34.00 -- less than the
total for Illinois. Elgin bettered its year ago totals by $1.2 million. The downstate
operators were down from year ago comparisons; none of the downstate operations
performed materially better in August than they did in July.
Other monthly information showed no significant developments. Eight of the ten
licensees were able to cruise 75% of the time.
Administrator Belletire noted that on Wednesday, September 18, the Board will
convene in open session and participate in a conference on the economic impact of
riverboat gambling in Illinois.
Administrator Belletire stated that staff received a letter from Representative Cal
Skinner, requesting to know whether the Board prohibits staff from accepting gifts of a
certain value. The Administrator responded to this request on the Board’s behalf. The
response discussed the Board’s Code of Conduct provisions. A copy of the response
was distributed to the Board.
Administrator Belletire announced that the Player’s Board of Directors underwent
a substantial change. The Merv Griffin Group has exercised its prerogative to appoint
new members of the Board of Directors, as well as new operating personnel. None of
the transactions require Board approval as Mr. Griffin, and the majority of the Board
members, are already approved as Key Person/shareholders.
Chairman Johnson commented on the monthly statistical reports and the impact
of the Indiana licensees on the Chicago area licensees. He stated that the impact has
been dramatic. Mr. Johnson further commented that he is interested in the trend line
that will occur over time.

2

 The next order of Business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
Steve Norton, representing Argosy Gaming Corporation, stated that they are the
first Illinois licensee to complete five years of gaming in Illinois and that they have
thoroughly enjoyed the five years and continue to enjoy serving the clientele who visit
their facility. Mr. Norton stated that they completed a $235 million 131/4% mortgage
note in June, 1996. This transaction required that they repay a $100 million line of
credit, of which, only $45 million was outstanding as of December, 1995. Mr. Norton
stated that $94 million of the $235 is in a special account earmarked for the
Lawrenceburg, IN project. If for some reason the Lawrenceburg project is not
completed, the funds remaining would be refunded to mortgage holders.
Mr. Norton stated that corporate loses in the first and second quarters were
primarily caused by write-offs of the Lawrenceburg pre-opening costs and higher than
anticipated interest costs on the borrowed money. Argosy also suffered a decline in
revenues in Kansas City with the opening of Sam’s Town Casino and Harrah’s second
facility in that market.
Mr. Norton stated that in 1995, Alton Belle staff helped with the apprehension of
three individuals who had been using a device called a “monkey paw” to “rip-off” slot
machines throughout the country. He noted that Argosy Gaming is looking to improve
the Alton property. It is negotiating with the city to add 600 parking spaces at the park
adjacent to the Alton Belle as well as widening the access road and street approaching
the riverboat. It is also exploring ways to expand the seating capacity in the property’s
dining and entertainment facilities. The company believes these improvements are
necessary, given added competition coming early next year.
Argosy has donated $160,000 to area charities, schools, churches and non-profit
organizations. It currently employs 875 people. Over 90 percent of the employees live
in the State of Illinois, 250 are from Alton of which 24% are minorities.
Argosy has checked 19,530 ID’s and turned away 804 patrons (4% of those
checked) over the past year.
Mr. Norton requested a one year renewal of their owner’s license.
Chairman Johnson asked if Argosy had entered into their vessel lease with HP,
Inc. Mr. Norton stated that the transaction is complete and the boat is at the East
Dubuque site. Administrator Belletire stated that the HP, Inc. vessel is currently the
former Alton Belle I. It became operational September 16. The out-going Silver Eagle
vessel is being detained in East Dubuque until IGB staff has ascertained that the
gaming equipment is properly secured.
Member Vickrey asked how long Argosy’s temporary operating certificate was
extended in Indiana. Mr. Norton responded that the certificate is carried through
January of 1997. Argosy has agreed that, if through any fault of its own, the Indiana

3

 boat is not operational by December 1, 1996, Argosy would pay a daily penalty to the
State of Indiana, in lieu of gaming taxes. Argosy hopes to commence operations early
November, but is waiting on final approval from the Corps. of Engineers.
Member Vickrey asked how long Argosy’s Indiana boat can operate at the
temporary site. Mr. Norton responded that the law states it can only be there one year.
Member Vickrey asked if both the temporary and permanent sites were close to
Lawrenceburg. Mr. Norton stated that both sites are inside the Lawrenceburg city limits
(behind the levy). There is approximately 500 to 600 yards between the two sites.
Member Vickrey asked how many positions Argosy would open with at the
temporary site. Mr. Norton stated that there will be close to 900 slot machines and
about 40 table games. He noted that the permanent boat will be double those figures.
Donna B. More, representing Circus Circus, requested approval of Kurt D.
Sullivan as a Director.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Kurt D. Sullivan as a
Director of Circus Circus Enterprises, Inc. Member Vickrey seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
John A. Janicik, representing Casino Queen, requested approval of Thomas
Monaghan as Assistant to the General Manager.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Thomas Monaghan as a
Level 1 occupational licensee of Casino Queen Inc. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Nick Pritzker, of Hyatt Development representing Elgin Riverboat Resorts
(“ERR”), discussed the formation of the Grand Victoria Foundation (“Foundation”). The
purpose of the Foundation is to provide funding for worthy education, economic
development and environmental projects and programs in Elgin, Kane County and the
State of Illinois. As part of ERR’s initial application for ownership, it agreed to a profit
sharing of 20 percent of their net profits. ERR has reached a point where it is prepared
to begin distribution of these funds. He noted that annual contributions could equal or
exceed $20 million.
Mr. Richard Schulze, Vice Chairman of Hyatt Development, discussed the
formation of the Foundation. He stated that 37.5 percent of the 20 percent will go
directly to the Kane County Board. The balance of the commitment, 62.5 percent, will
be paid directly to the Foundation, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation. The Foundation
will have a seven member Board of Directors. Initially, three members of the Board will
be from the community of Elgin, two representing Circus Circus (from Las Vegas) and
two representing Hyatt (from Chicago). They will work with people from the city of Elgin
to help in the decision making process. The commitment from the Grand Victoria
Casino to the Foundation will be governed by a contract to be executed by the

4

 Foundation and Elgin Riverboat Resorts. A separate contract will govern the
commitment entered into with the Kane County Board. A Spring 1997 date is expected
for the presentation of the initial awards.
Member Cudmore asked if the resolution referred to on page 5 of the Agreement
was the Kane County Board Resolution 93-237. Mr. Schulze indicated it was. The
resolution, passed in 1993, identifies the types of programs that would be eligible for
funding by the County Board.
Member Vickrey commented on the tendency for development projects to be
concentrated in close proximity to the casinos. Little development is undertaken farther
out into the communities. He feels this does not speak well for the industry nor does it
speak well for the local governments that host the owner licensees. Mr. Vickrey
expressed his desire to see more local government officials at future meetings. He also
encouraged projects that can be “walked, photographed and looked at” to reflect how
monies were spent from riverboat casinos. Mr. Schulze concurred. Mr. Schulze stated
that discussions have taken place regarding the establishment of an endowment to
guarantee long term results.
Chairman Johnson commended Elgin Riverboat Resort for their efforts in
creating the Foundation.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensees.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve 115 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 249 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 3 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 11
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of
Christopher McFarland for a level 2 occupational license. Member Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of
Cleopatra Istephan for a level 2 occupational license. Member Vickrey seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and revoke the level 3
occupational license of Susan Brooks. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Complaints and Disciplinary Action.
Member Cudmore moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against
Cynthia Nelson be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint
involves Ms. Nelson’s ineligibility due to a conviction of a crime involving
dishonesty. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Cudmore moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against
Meredith Howard be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint
involves Ms. Howard’s ineligibility due to her felony conviction. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Cudmore moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against
Cory Franklin be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves
Franklin’s disorderly conduct while in the parking lot of the Empress River
Casino-Joliet. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board Policy Discussion Items.
Administrator Belletire reviewed the background for the emergency Rule
governing Supplier licenses.

6

 Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the second notice
submission of the proposed Board Rules 3000.240, 3000.241, 3000.242 and
3000.243 with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mareile’ Cusack stated that the Board had recently received a request from one
of the Illinois licensees asking whether a certain entity falls within the Board’s definition
of a “Junketeer”. The entity is an airline that would transport targeted patrons to Illinois
casinos. The persons targeted would be known casino patrons with theoretical wins
above a certain threshold. The owner licensee would prepay the airfare for each
passenger who meets the theoretical win or it would provide the passenger with
complimentaries in an amount equal to the airfare. In addition, the casino would pay
$40 to the airline for each passenger brought to the casino, regardless of the patron’s
theoretical win or play.
Ms. Cusack stated that Illinois casinos for many years have used bus services to
attract and transport patrons. It appears that some bus services may not operate
substantially different from the airline service.
Ms. Cusack stated that the Act does not mention Junketeers. Board Rule
3000.100 defines a Junketeer as “[a] person or entity who is compensated depending
on how much a patron either wages or loses or a determination by the holder of the
Owner’s license or Gaming Operation Manager as to the potential amount a patron will
wager or lose.” The airline scenario would fall under the second part of the definition.
Rule 3000.200(b)(7) requires that Junketeers hold a Supplier’s license. This results in a
mandatory statutory annual license fee of $5000 a year and, by Board Rule, an
application fee of $10,000.
Ms. Cusack stated that, with the increasing competition facing Illinois casinos,
staff finds more owner licensees turning to fee-based services to attract patrons. While
these relationships may not resemble the “classic Junketeers” that are directly
compensated based upon how much a patron wagers or loses, they in many ways
capture the essence of Junketeers. Ms. Cusack further stated that owner licensees
would not continue using the contract services unless the patrons attracted wagered
more than the fees paid to bring the patrons to the casino. Although compensation may
not be percentage based, it is ultimately based upon how much the patrons wager or
lose.
Ms. Cusack stated that there is still much to learn about these types of services,
including the tour/bus services casinos regularly use, and suggested that the Board
may wish to look at these relationships more closely.

7

 Administrator Belletire discussed the options and implications of the Junketeer
issue. He noted the contrasting approaches to regulating junketeers in Nevada and
New Jersey. The Nevada approach entails only requiring those recruiting patrons to
obtain occupational work permits. New Jersey has a more strict approach. Individuals
who recruit any patron who receives $200 or more in complimentary services must have
an occupational license. A firm or entity operating as a junketeer must hold a New
Jersey Supplier’s license.
The Administrator asked for guidance from the Board.
Chairman Johnson expressed a concern that the current supplier license fee
may prohibit interested parties from applying in Illinois. Owner licensees thus have
limited opportunity to recruit patrons though intermediaries.
Chairman Johnson asked staff to draft for review at the December meeting, an
amendment to Rule 3000.100 requiring the registration of Junketeers. He also asked
staff to get industry reaction to this proposal.
Member Cudmore stated that he would like the amendment to contain some
analysis on how the Board would discipline violations.
Chairman Johnson stated that staff continues to evaluate the utilization of ATMs
and credit card withdrawals aboard casinos. He asked that staff circulate a letter to
owner licensees with specific suggestions to which they can respond. Member Browder
concurred with querying owners and further suggested that it may raise the question -“Is this a matter for the legislature to be involved in?”
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:20 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

8

 