MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 19, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on September 19, 2005.
The Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160
N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, and James Sullivan. Member Eugene Winkler was present
telephonically.
The meeting convened at 9:45 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:35 P.M. Member Winkler was present
telephonically.
Chairman Jaffe announced that the agenda item regarding Argosy Gaming and Penn National
would be tabled to the September 29, 2005 Regular Board meeting.
Casino Queen, Inc. – Bidwell Trust – Assignment and Transfer of Residual Beneficial
Interest – John Janicik, Attorney, was present on behalf of Casino Queen to request initial
consideration for transfer of residual beneficial interest in the Bidwell Trust.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board would review and discuss with Staff the information
that was provided to the Board and would consider Casino Queen’s request at the September
29th Regular Board Meeting.
At 1:45 P.M. Member Moore moved that the Board reconvene to Closed session. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 2:15 P.M.

 Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

