MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the August 20, 2015 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature; as such, they
are subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call.
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair), Patrick McFadden, Diahann Goode
Brent Lewandowski, Sam Richardson, Alexis Herrera, and
Patrick Nester
Nickol Hackett, Executive Director; Staff: Brenda Deming,
Tonya Jackson and Courtney Hollins
Jessica Streit, Chris Heppner and John Gingell of Segal
Consulting

Public Comment.
Trustee Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee. There being no public
comment, the meeting continued.
1. Review and Consideration of the June 25, 2015 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes.
It was moved by Trustee Richardson and seconded by Trustee Lewandowski to approve the minutes.
2. Expense Projection and Rates for 2016
Ms. Deming presented an executive summary of the health and pharmacy plan management efforts
and their respective outcomes for 2015 year to date. It was noted that pricing improvements in the
pharmacy contract were projected to reduce expense by $3,000,000. The change in medical plan
administrators to UHC was projected to reduce plan expense by $1.1 million through Q2, and has

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 exceeded projected savings by $1.9M through Q215 for a total of $3 million below budget.
Additionally, the adoption of expanded clinical programs for disease management will contribute to
reduction in medical plan in 2016 and beyond. The pharmacy component of overall plan expense is
above projected by 3.3 million due to an increase in specialty drugs. This trend is expected to
continue for the next several years. Ms. Deming suggested that the fund evaluate the option of
moving from the current RDS reimbursement method to full participation in Medicare Part D
through an Employer Group Waiver Plan which would increase federal reimbursements through
CMS.
3. Specialty Pharmacy Recommendations
Following a review with Segal’s pharmacy consultant, Ms. Streit and Ms. Deming presented three
recommendations to control drug expense. Recommendation one is to provide half of a 30 day
prescription for chemotherapy drugs as they are often not well tolerated and subsequently wasted.
Recommendation 2 is to implement the CVS step therapy plan for Specialty Medications. This new
formulary would include a program to block coverage for new to market medications until a
thorough clinical review could be performed. The final recommendation is to cover the condition of
Hemophilia under the medical plan rather than under the pharmacy plan. It was moved by Trustee
McFadden and seconded by Trustee Herrera to make a recommendation to the Board to accept the
proposed changes and implement upon Board approval.
Review of Plan Design and Member Cost Share
Chris Heppper presented the renewal projection for the medical plan for 2016. The plan is projected
to increase by 12.2%. Mr. Heppner was unable to model the effect of the pharmacy
recommendations and so agreed to have that prepared for a subsequent review. The Trustees
discussed the projection, and the effect of increasing plan expense due to high pharmacy expense
and also additional members each year. Ms. Deming stated that on average, plan membership grows
by about 200 members net of terminations each year, which accounts for an additional $2M of
expense annually at this time.
The Trustees discussed possible plan changes to mitigate the increase, and requested to see copay
increases on pharmacy copays, and also increases to the Choice Plan copays. Since each plan is rated
separately, the increase affects each plan separately. The Choice Plus plan experience was less than
expected, and so did not reflect a large increase. The Trustees discussed that this plan is actually the
most expensive in total Fund expense. There was also discussion on the concept of the Fund
subsidizing a fixed dollar amount annually, and that members would pay the difference if they
selected a higher cost plan. It was agreed that all plan design change scenarios would be presented at
the September 24, 2015 and that rates would be recommended after being finalized on that date.
4. Vision Plan Review and Alternatives for 2016
Ms. Streit reintroduced the top three proposals for a standalone vision plan that had been presented
earlier in the year. Ms. Deming provided a summary of the year-to-date expense for the current plan.
After discussion on the current vision benefit and claims process administered by UHC, the Trustees
evaluated the administrative procedures necessary to set up and administer a new plan with a new
vendor. It was moved by Trustee Goode to accept the bid of UHC Spectera for vision coverage for

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 2016. Trustee Goode withdrew her motion as it was not seconded. Trustee McFadden moved to
select Davis Vision, which was also not seconded.
The Trustees inquired about the information system requirements for both Davis vision and EyeMed.
Staff indicated more information was needed to provide the changes and time schedule required to
add a new vendor, and that additional research would be done. The Trustees did not take a decision
on selection of a vision vendor or continuance of the current vision benefit.
5. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee Herrera and seconded by Trustee Nester to adjourn the meeting.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 