STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 14, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of the Board;
Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post,
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 10, 2012

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the July 10, 2012 meeting. Member Brennwald moved to approve
the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the period
of time from July 1 to July 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report
and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-10-115
Lake Forest Professional Firefighters Union, International Assoc. of Firefighters, Local 1898/ City of Lake
Forest

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian presented the issues presented by Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Hamburg-Gal’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) and stated that the charge alleged that the Respondent violated
Section 10(a)(4), (2) and (1) of the Act. Counsel Kazanjian presented charging party’s exceptions and recommended that the
Board adopt the ALJ's recommended decision and order with modifications. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the
ALJ’s decision with modifications. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-CA-12-006,018,024,104,106,108,116
Illinois State Employees Assoc., Laborers’ Local 2002, IL Nurses Assoc., SEIU, AFSCME Council 31, IFT Local
4408 and 919, Conservation Police Lodge/ State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe's RDO, and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-12-093
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Dixmoor
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CB-12-015
Village of Barrington Hills/ Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 576
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on April 25, 2012, and an appeal had
been filed. General Counsel Post presented the issues of the appeal by Charging Party. Charging Party alleged that Respondent
had violated its duty of fair representation and Section 10(b)(1) of the Act, and also failed to bargain in good faith in violation of
Section 10(b)(4). After discussion General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal
for the reasons stated in the dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this date. After a short
discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of September, 2012.

2

 