STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 10, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the
Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director; John F. Brosnan, Ellen M. Strizak, Sharon B. Wells, and Sylvia Rios acted as general
counsel to the Board for this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MARCH 6, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the March 6, 2007 meeting. Member Piper
moved to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by
a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from March 1 through March 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights, noting
that during the month, the agency issued three certifications pursuant to representation elections, seven
certifications pursuant to majority interest petitions, nine certifications pursuant to unit clarification
petitions, and two certifications directed pursuant to unit clarification petitions. The agency also received
withdrawals in connection with five representation petitions, and the agency's Administrative Law Judges
(ALJs) issued seven Recommended Decisions and Orders (RDOs), resolving eight representation cases.
The Executive Director also noted that with regard to unfair labor practice cases, the agency issued
twenty-two complaints for hearing and eleven administrative dismissals, five deferrals, had twenty-eight
charges withdrawn, and the agency's ALJs issued RDOs in four unfair labor practice cases.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-04-217
Kewanee Firefighters Association, Local 513, IAFF/City of Kewanee

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the ALJ dismissing in part and
sustaining in part, the unfair labor practice complaint against Respondent. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan, after a review of the decision and exceptions, recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
decision. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the issues raised in by the
exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation.
Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-06-005
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Sergeants Ch. No. 435/Village of Morton Grove
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan, after a review of
the decision and exceptions, recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After the Board's
discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

3.
Case No. S-CA-06-002
Michael Eppley/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-CB-06-002
Michael Eppley/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Strizak after thoroughly
reviewing the matter, recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director's dismissals. After the
Board's discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Piper seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CB-06-013/S-CB-06-015
Douglas Biller and Anthony Sortino/American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Wells detailed her review
of the case and recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director's dismissals. After the Board's
discussion, Member Piper moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-07-046
Phillis Buhr/County of Champaign (Champaign County Nursing Home)
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues
presented and recommended upholding the dismissal. After the Board's discussion, Member Coli moved
to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-VR-07-004
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Strizak presented the
issues in dispute and concluded that the Board should uphold the Executive Director's order. After the
Board's discussion, Member Piper moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman updated the Board as to the status of legislation that concerns the agency, and distributed
the report on estimated year-end account balances, the "actual v. budgeted" year-to-date report, and other
financial reports prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand. The Chairman and Board members then
discussed various aspects of the agency's fiscal reports. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there
was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of May, 2007.
2

 