STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on March 30, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 9:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski,
Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 23, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the February 23, 2010 meeting. Member
Anderson moved to approve the minutes. Member Sadlowski seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the Local Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from February 1 through February 28, 2010. He distributed the
report to the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-05-047
Carol Bruno/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law
Judge Kazanjian's Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to review
the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-CB-09-013
Adam Gold et al./Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 28, 2009, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Sadlowski moved to accept the general counsel's recommendation. Member Anderson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. L-CA-09-089
Bernard B. Pierce/Chicago Transit Authority
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 28, 2009, with an improperly filed appeal, and asked whether the Board wished to review the
dismissal on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and
the disbursement record. The Chair and Members of the Board then discussed the fiscal report at length.
Thereafter, Executive Director Brosnan updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect
the agency. After a short discussion, the Board questioned whether there was a need for executive
session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of April, 2010.

2

 