STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 9, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Don Hubert, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. General Counsel Jacalyn J. Zimmerman
was absent.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 11, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the April 11, 2006 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hubert seconded. The Board approved the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2006. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
L-RC-05-014
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago/Illinois Council of
Police/Firemen and Oilers Union, Local No. 7

Chairman Gallagher began by noting that the General Counsel advised in her memo that the
Administrative Law Judge dismissed this case because there were no issues warranting a hearing.
Chairman Gallagher further noted that in the memo, the General Counsel concluded that the ALJ properly
dismissed the case, as the petition sought only a portion of a larger, existing unit, therefore the unit sought
was inappropriate. Member Sadlowski and Executive Director Brosnan discussed issues presented in
connection with certain large, existing bargaining units, and thereafter, the Board engaged in a general
discussion of the case. At the conclusion thereof, Member Hubert made a motion to uphold the decision
of the ALJ. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
2.
L-CB-06-019
Ronald J. Chaney, Sr./Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Gallagher presented the case, explaining that this matter is an appeal of the Executive
Director’s dismissal issued on March 21, 2006, and the issue is whether Respondent Local 73 failed in its
duty of fair representation. The Executive Director based the dismissal on the fact that there was no
evidence of intentional misconduct, finding that the Union represented the Charging Party, but that it was
limited by its agreement with the Employer, in the relief it could obtain for him. Member Sadlowski
discussed with the Chairman and Member Hubert, the basis of the charge and questioned the Union’s

 performance and the employee's rights. At the end of that discussion, Member Hubert stated that he
agreed with the General Counsel's recommendation to affirm the dismissal. Member Sadlowski made a
motion to affirm the dismissal. Member Hubert seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
L-CB-06-016/L-CB-06-017/L-CB-06-018/L-CB-06-020
Wayne A. Harej/Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge No. 7
Chairman Gallagher presented the case, explaining that the issue was whether the Union violated its duty
of fair representation when it expelled Charging Party from membership and took other action against
him. The Executive Director dismissed the charge, finding that it involved an internal union matter.
Charging Party filed an appeal. Member Hubert began the discussion, noting his agreement with the
analysis of jurisdiction by the General Counsel. The Board engaged in a general discussion of the case.
At the conclusion thereof, Member Sadlowski made a motion to accept the recommendation of the
General Counsel to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Hubert seconded the motion.
The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed the most current fiscal report prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Chairman also presented the legislative update, including the outlook for the Board’s budget.
Member Sadlowski made a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss personnel matters. Member
Hubert seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VII.

ADJOURNMENT

The Board voted to return to open session. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Member Hubert seconded the motion. The Board adjourned the meeting.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of June, 2006.

2

 