MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 8, 1996
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on February 8, 1996 in the
conference room of the Illinois Gaming Board office, State of Illinois Building, Chicago,
Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
Chairman J. Thomas Johnson was present with the following Board Members
participating through telephonic conferencing: William B. Browder, Byron Cudmore,
Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrator
Joseph C. Haughey, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile Cusack, other members of the staff
and media representatives.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 5:10 p.m.
Chairman Johnson introduced the subject of the holding of ownership interest in the ParA-Dice Gaming Corporation, that does not meet the required disclosure and approval
requirements of the Gaming Board. Chairman Johnson expressed that Administrator
Belletire began an investigation immediately upon learning from Par-A-Dice’
management that one investor in the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation had shared
ownership interest, without the knowledge of the Board of Directors, in violation of the
Illinois Riverboat Gaming Act.
Member Cudmore, moved for the adoption of the following resolution:
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5(c) of the Act, the Board has all the powers necessary
and proper to fully and effectively execute the provisions of the Illinois Riverboat
Gambling Act; and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5(c) 15 of the Act, the Board may suspend, revoke,
restrict or require the removal of a licensee for violation of the Act or a Board Rule or for
engaging in a fraudulent practice; and,
WHEREAS, Section 6(c) of the Act requires that each applicant disclose the identity of
every person, association, trust or corporation having a greater than 1% direct or indirect
pecuniary interest in the licensed riverboat gambling operation; and,
WHEREAS, it has come to the Board’s attention that a beneficial interest of an amount
greater than 1% in Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation (Par-A-Dice) was created without
disclosure to or approval of the Board.
Now Therefore Be It Resolved That, the Board orders:

 1. Par-A-Dice to immediately remove Clarence Schielein and divest him of any
and all ownership interest in Par-A-Dice;
2. Clarence Schielein to immediately divest himself of any and all ownership
interest in Par-A-Dice; and
3. David Schielein to immediately divest himself of any and all beneficial
ownership interest in Par-A-Dice.
Be It Further Resolved That, the Board directs the Administrator to prepare disciplinary
complaints and take other actions, as may be appropriate, against Par-A-Dice, Clarence
Schielein or David Schielein.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
approved unanimously.

The Board was polled and the motion was

There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned 5:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Christine Takada
Executive Assistant to the Administrator

 SPECIAL EXECUTIVE SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
February 8, 1996
Conference Room
160 N. LaSalle #300,

A Special Executive Session of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on February 8, 1996
in the conference room of the Illinois Gaming Board office, State of Illinois Building,
Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman J. Thomas Johnson was present with the following Board Members
participating through telephonic conferencing: William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Robert
Vickrey, Byron Cudmore.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrator
Joseph C. Haughey, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile Cusack and Investigators Tim Zych
and Joe Holoubek.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 3:10 p.m.
The Administrator summarized the investigation of Case #94-B-23570 in the ownership
interest of Licensee #90-A-4554.
Investigators Zych and Holoubek explained the results of the Enforcement division’s
investigation by summarizing a detailed chronology of events. Discussion was held on
various findings by the Enforcement division.
A proposed resolution was summarized by the Administrator and discussed by the
Board.
Member Pyatt moved to adjourn the Special Executive Session, the motion was
seconded by Member Browder. The Special Executive Session was adjourned at 5:05
p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

__________________
Christine Takada
Executive Assistant to the Administrator

 