MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
January 19, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DES PLAINES, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, January 19, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held at the Rivers Casino in Des Plaines, Illinois.
On Thursday, January 19, 2012 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Z. Scott, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and
Lee Gould. At 9:48 A.M. on Thursday, January 19, 2012, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Holewinski moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 9:58 A.M. at which time the Board
recessed and went into open session at 10:05 A.M Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe,
Members Z. Scott, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meetings of November 10, 2011 and December 15, 2011. Member Scott seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
The Administrator thanked Rivers Casino for hosting the January Regular Board Meeting. He
also went on to introduce Bill Keena the General Manager of Rivers Casino and Greg Carlin the
CEO of Rivers Casino. Mr. Carlin introduced Mr. Dave Patton the COO of Rivers Casino. Mr.
Carlin congratulated Mr. Keena on a job well done.

 Mr. Rich Laudon the General Manager of Argosy Alton was present to introduce to the Board
the new General Manager of Hollywood Casino Joliet, Mr. Carlin Wayne Smith.
Administrator Ostrowski introduced the docksite supervisor of Rivers Casino, Vincent Pattara.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Robert L. Olsen Sr. – The Outreach Foundation –

Mr. Olsen addressed the Board and went on to explain how the Outreach Foundation is funded
and exactly what it does to help problem gamblers and their families. He also went on to explain
where its funds are directed.
The Executive Director of the Outreach Foundation addressed the Board. He also gave a brief
synopsis of how the foundation functions.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Albert T. Liu - Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved to approve Albert T. Liu, who intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming
& Entertainment, LLC through Casino Investors, LLC.
Member Holewinski further moved pursuant to Section 235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings,
LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the
financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Cheryl Ann Miller - Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Scott moved to
approve Cheryl Ann Miller, who is a female as defined under the Illinois Riverboat
Gambling Act and intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC through High Plaines Gaming, LLC.
Member Scott further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings,
LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the
financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
●

AGS Illinois, LLLP – New License
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved that the Board approve AGS Illinois, LLLP for a Supplier’s License, effective
January 19, 2012 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in January, 2013.
Member Vander Weele further moved to designate and approve the following
positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of AGS Illinois, LLLP:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

AGS Holdings, LLC;
AGS Capital, LLC;
AGS, LLC;
President, AGS, LLC;
Chief Executive Officer, AGS, LLC;
Graham Weaver; and
Robert Miodunski.

Member Vander Weele further moved that AGS Illinois, LLLP be authorized and
approved to supply electronic gaming devices to Illinois casinos. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

American Gaming and Electronics, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve the renewal of American Gaming & Electronics, Inc.’s Supplier’s
License for a period of four years, expiring in January, 2016.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Gould moved to designate the
following positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Wells-Gardner Electronics Corporation;
President;
Chief Executive Officer; and
Anthony S. Spier.

Member Gould further moved that American Gaming and Electronics, Inc. be
authorized and approved to supply the following products and services to Illinois
casinos:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Bill Validators;
Coin Comparitors;
Hopper Mechanisms;
Dealing Shoes;
Related parts, equipment, and services;

3

 6.
7.

LED lighting products and power supplies; and
Monitors.

Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
•

Spielo International Canada ULC – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved that the Board approve the renewal of Spielo International Canada ULC’s
Supplier’s License for a period of four years, expiring in January, 2016.
Member Holewinski further moved to designate and approve the following positions,
persons and entities as Key Persons of Spielo International Canada ULC:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

B&D Holding di Marco Drago e. C.S.a.P.A.;
De Agostini S.p.A.;
Lottomatica Group S.p.A.;
Chief Executive Officer, Gaming Division, Lottomatica;
President and Chief Executive Officer, Spielo International
Canada, ULC;
6. Walter G. Bugno; and
7. Victor Duarte.
Member Holewinski further moved that Spielo International Canada ULC be
authorized and approved to supply electronic gaming devices to Illinois casinos.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Scott moved that the Board
find suitable and approve 69 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and
126 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Scott moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the
following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend denial of
their license applications and either did not respond or did not provide additional
information which rebutted the recommendations:
Joshua M. Deamon; Tracy B. Gibbs; Willie Luciano; Nicole E. Moore; Gina M.
Pearson; Eric R. Smith; Michael L. Sidel; Brendan J. Nix; Heather D. Smith;
Michael Almaguer; Nicholas D. Conlon; Irene Dahlgren; Kasia L. Davis; Brian
Eisen; Nina Graziano; Michelle Hester; Brandon D. Jones; Travis R. Jordan;
Matthew LaConte; Tiffany L. Leonard; Michael Lukasiewicz; Kalvin C. Martin;
Pedro Perez; Irvin L. Pirtle; Stanislaw Szafranski; Ocil Trujillo; Darrius D.

4

 Williams; Roderick F. Williams, Jr.; and Ralph Yarck. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Nora Almanza, Christian Bjelle, Ariel Bolanos, Patricia A. Dolnak, and Yan Xian
– Occupational Licensees
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved
that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints against Nora Almanza, Christian
Bjelle, Ariel Bolanos, Patricia A. Dolnak, and Yan Xian, all Occupational Licensees,
for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board.
Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board fine Nora Almanza, Christian
Bjelle, Ariel Bolanos, Patricia A. Dolnak, and Yan Xian each $250.00. Said fines
not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensees and said actions to take
effect twenty-one (21) days from the dates of service of the complaints unless the
Licensees file Answers within that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

John L. Chamberlain – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against John L. Chamberlain, an
Occupational Licensee, due to his conviction of a crime involving dishonesty.
Further, Member Gould moved that the Board revoke John L. Chamberlain’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rita Fernandez – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Rita Fernandez, an Occupational
Licensee, due to her admission of stealing money from a patron’s wallet.
Further, Member Holewinski moved that the Board revoke Rita Fernandez’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 ●

Sandra J. Santiago – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Scott moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Sandra J. Santiago, an Occupational
Licensee, due to her conduct of theft from the Grand Victoria Casino.
Further, Member Scott moved that the Board revoke Sandra J. Santiago’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Diana I. Smith – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Diana I. Smith, an Occupational
Licensee, due to her conviction of a crime involving dishonesty.
Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board revoke Diana I. Smith’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Scott seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT –
●

Requests for Hearing
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved
that the following individuals’ requests’ for a hearing be denied based on the fact
that the individuals have offered no facts that establish a prima facie case:
Gordon E. Carter; Larry J. Gardner; Katrina M. Johnson; Jajuan Phillips; and
Michael A. Rice. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:45 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Scott seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 