MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
July 14 and 15, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, July 14, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, June 14, 2009 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and Jim Sullivan. At 9:50
a.m. on Tuesday July 14, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to order. Chairman Aaron
Jaffe entered the meeting at 10:05 a.m. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14)
and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member
Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board recessed at 11:30 a.m.
On Wednesday, July 15, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 11:30 a.m. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:55 p.m. The Board went into
open session at 1:00 p.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 23 and 24, 2009. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 24, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe addressed the subject of video poker. The Chairman stated that he has not read
the Legislation as of yet, staff is completing that. The Board will work diligently to implement
the legislation. There are hurdles that are faced; one being no appropriation was made for
additional personnel. The duty of regulation falls upon the IGB and at this time we do not have
the staffing to comply with the legislature’s intent. Until that is rectified, our resources must be
balanced. We will not deviate in any way from our responsibilities to the regulation of the
casinos. We will keep you updated via our website.
BOARD POLICTY ITEMS
●

Proposed Rules
●

Rule 3000.220 – Withdrawal of Applications
Member Moore moved to authorize staff to submit proposed revisions to
section 3000.220 of the Adopted Rules for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval of the Administrator.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rule 3000.660 – EGD Tournament Programs
Member Moore moved to authorize staff to submit proposed revisions to
section 3000.660 and of the Adopted Rules for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval of the Administrator.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski echoed the comments the Chairman made. Our direction will be to
deal with Video Poker in a very thorough and efficient manner. However, balancing the
regulatory and criminal law enforcement responsibilities for all our licensees takes priority, our
continued suitability investigation of Midwest Gaming pertaining to the 10th License, and with
the Governor signing an Executive Order #5 we are also dealing with administrative issues
related to our separation.
Chief Counsel Fries stated that we will do nothing to compromise the level of regulation that we
have achieved in Illinois over the commercial casinos as we move forward with the Video Poker
responsibilities.

2

 PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Presentation to the Illinois Gaming Board
Tom Swoik, Executive Director
Illinois Casino Gaming Association
July 15, 2009
Good afternoon I am here today to update you on a few events that the 7 members of the
Association have or will be involved in this year. Those events include the 42nd Annual Chicago
Business Opportunity Fair, the upcoming AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week August
3-7 and an industry sponsored Minority Vendor Fair to be held later this fall.
The 42nd Annual Chicago Business Opportunity Fair, organized by the Chicago Minority
Business Development Council took place at Navy Pier on April 6-8. For the third year the
members of the ICGA sponsored and participated in the events including having a booth at the
trade show. In addition to the booth sponsored by the seven members of the Association,
Harrah’s also sponsored a booth. It was interesting this year because, even though our booth was
a little more out of the main paths, we were part of what became known as “casino row” the
ICGA booth the Harrah’s booth and a casino from northern Indiana, to remain unnamed.
I was hoping to have some pictures of the activities including one with member Moore at our
booth, but was unable to obtain them from the Chicago council and apparently our camera
malfunctioned. I do have an autographed picture of me and the keynote speaker Magic Johnson,
but I have it framed on my office wall.
This year there were fewer booths, but the turnout was still impressive. The individuals
stationed at our booth represented the purchasing departments of their casinos. We had
tremendous turnout in spite of our location. I believe numerous contacts were made that will
help us achieve our efforts to work with diverse vendors.
I assure you next year I will bring pictures.
Secondly, I would like to update you on the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week. The
American Gaming Association created Responsible Gaming Week
In 1998 to increase awareness of problem gambling among gaming employees and customers
and to promote responsible gaming nationwide. The week of August 3-7, 2009, will be the
twelfth year for this event. This year the theme will be “Know the Code” and refers to the AGA
Code of Conduct related to Responsible Gaming. The Code in essence is an industry pledge to
employees, patrons and the public to integrate responsible gaming practices into every aspect of
daily operations including employee assistance and training, alcohol service policies and
advertising and marketing.
This year will again be symbolized by orange wristbands similar to those made popular by Lance
Armstrong, stating “KEEP IT FUN”.

3

 The information provided this year by the AGA included not only the themed “KEEP IT FUN”
wristbands in English and Spanish, but also media advisory information, Responsible Gaming
Activities Workbooks, buttons, ribbons, stickers, brochures, posters, and table tents for employee
lounges. The objective of the campaign is to involve employees in activities to promote
responsible gaming. Employees are trained to explain to patrons the significance of the
wristband, button, sticker or ribbon they are wearing during Responsible Gaming Education
Week.
Prior to Responsible Gaming Education Week, management at the casinos provide training to
staff not only related to the week’s activities, but also as a refresher to the training every
employee receives related to responsible gaming.
Although Responsible Gaming Education Week is a special industry-wide collaborative effort,
we are actively involved in improving responsible gaming efforts every week throughout the
year.
Finally, I would like to inform you that the Association will again sponsor a minority vendor fair
later this fall or early winter. As you will recall last year we co-sponsored events at both the
Grand Victoria and Alton casinos.
One thing I noticed toward the end of both of those events, that was very heartening, was the fact
that many of the vendors were interacting with each other and discussing which of their products
or services they could use to help each other. Additionally, we had a few non-minority vendors
attend who also were making valuable contacts.
This year we will co-sponsor another business diversity fair which will be held at Hollywood
Casino in late November or early December.
I will keep you posted on the timing of this event.
I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today.
Member Moore stated that he had attended the supplier vendor business fair in April and
commended Tom and the Association for a job well done.
Member Gardner asked which casinos are not represented by the Illinois Casino Gaming
Association, Tom stated that Casino Queen does not participate in the association but does
participate in the responsible gaming efforts and Par-A-Dice is not a member of the association.

4

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Information
●

10th License Status Update

Neil Blum addressed the Board regarding the progress of the 10th license. He stated that
Midwest Gaming is looking into avenues of raising more equity for the project and less debt in
light of the economy. Mr. Bluhm stated that in May when the subject of Video Poker arose there
were a series of meetings regarding the impact of the Video Poker on the casinos. Firms were
engaged to study the potential impact of revenue from the affect of Video Poker. The Innovation
Group was hired to complete a study. During this period the financials slowed a bit, and now the
transaction is back on track. Due diligence should be completed within the next few weeks and
will be submitted to the Board with the necessary information. The Chairman asked when the
Board and staff will receive the information. Mr. Bluhm replied within the next few weeks.
The Chairman stated that the Board wants to move ahead and asked if the Board will have the
information by August 24, 2009. Mr. Bluhm stated that they will do everything they can to
supply the information by the 24th of August. Member Gardner asked what are the percentages
regarding ownership. Mr. Bluhm stated 40% Bluhm 40% investor and 20% minority investors.
Member Winkler stated that Midwest Gaming is beyond the deadline of June 21st, 2009 for all
documentation to be turned in. Member Winkler stated that if we don’t have everything by the
August meeting we might have to do something drastic. Member Winkler stated that June 21st
was the deadline to have all the information to staff. Mr. Bluhm stated that the report on the
economics was given to the Gaming Board and now the investor is preparing the applications for
the August meeting.
Member Gardner asked if the binding commitments from the investor would be completed
within the next couple of weeks. Mr. Bluhm stated that the commitments are subject to legal
documentation and the ultimate financing was approved by the investor’s Board which was
approved by the investor’s staff based upon the new information. This will be submitted to the
IGB while the legal documentation is being processed.
●

Item for Initial Consideration
●

Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Credit Revolver Extension

Paul Jensen addressed the Board asking for initial consideration for the Credit Revolver
Extension while introducing Tom Auriama who explained the process and purpose to the Board
and staff.

5

 ●

Items for Final Action
●

Casino Queen – License Renewal

Jeff Watson addressed the Board and introduced Mayor Alvin Parks.
Mayor Alvin Parks of the City of East St. Louis addressed the Board and staff. Mayor Parks
explained that without the Casino Queen the City would not be able to operate. The casino has
supplied much revenue to the operations of the City.
Gordon Bush addressed the Board. Mr. Bush stated that before the Casino Queen, the City of
East St. Louis was on the verge of bankruptcy. With the revenue from the casino, East St. Louis
has a properly equipped police and fire department, stores and a very strong shopping district.
Mike Lundy who is the Executive Director of the Southwestern Illinois Development Authority
also addressed the Board. Mr. Lundy stated that SWIDA is a state created authority to do
economic development in four counties in southwestern Illinois. Mr. Lundy went on to explain
the projects that were completed with the help from the revenue supplied by the Casino Queen.
Member Winkler stated that the MBE and WBE figures in the report of the Casino Queen
renewal are questionable. Before the Board can approve the license accurate figures are needed.
Member Winkler went on to further state that women and minority business enterprises need to
be given the opportunities to advance, and the initial report was quite shocking. Mr. Watson
stated the numbers that were originally supplied are inaccurate. Mr. Watson also stated that he
has the accurate numbers. The Casino has a huge commitment to the City. The contract for the
Sports Bar is held by a minority owned contractor who was in partnership for the construction of
the new facility. Member Winkler stated the day to day operations of the casino are the Board’s
concern. The Board is interested in the day to day operations of the casino with reference to the
MBE and WBE. Mr. Watson apologized to the Board for the discrepancies.
Member Gardner stated that the license will not be approved today.
Member Winkler went on to state that the MBE and WBE are very important to this Board.
●

Penn National – John Finamore, Senior V.P of Regional Operations – Key Person
– Motion Clarification
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve John Finamore as a Key Person of Alton
Gaming Company in Alton, Illinois, Hollywood Casino Aurora in Aurora,
Illinois and Empress Casino Joliet Corporation in Joliet, Illinois in his
position as Senior Vice President of Regional Operations for Penn National
Gaming. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 ●

Harrah’s Casino Joliet – Kimberly A. Coker, V.P. Finance & Administration –
Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve Kimberly A. Coker as an Occupational Licensee Level 1
in the position of Vice President of Finance & Administration at Harrah’s
Casino Joliet in Joliet, Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Hollywood Casino – Paul D. Tibbetts, V.P. Casino Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Paul D. Tibbetts as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in
the position of Vice President of Casino Operations at Hollywood Casino
Aurora in Aurora, Illinois. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Harrah’s Metropolis – Jonathan S. Halkyard, Director of SIRCC – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Jonathan S. Halkyard as a Key Person for
Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, Inc., d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino in his position as Director. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Shuffle Master, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board renew the Supplier’s License held by Shuffle Master, Inc. for a
period of four years, expiring in July, 2013.
Staff further recommends that Shuffle Master, Inc., be authorized and
approved to supply the following products and services to licensed riverboat
casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the requirements of the IGB as
listed in the Adopted Rules:
1.
2.

Deck shufflers and the necessary software for those shufflers;
Table Game Layouts, which include the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Let it Ride;
Let it Ride Bonus;
Four Card Poker;
Four Card Poker Progressive;
Royal Match 21;
Texas Hold’em Bonus;
7

 7.
8.
9.
10.

Ultimate Texas Hold’em
Three Card Poker Progressive;
Pai Gow Poker, and
DEQ Promotional Progressive System G3.

Furthermore Member Sullivan moved to designate the following individuals, entities and
corporations as Key Persons of Shuffle Master, Inc.
1.
2.

Chief Executive Officer, and
President.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

TR-BIZ, LLC d/b/a TECH RESULTS – New Supplier
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve TR-BIZ, LLC d/b/a Tech Results for a
supplier’s license, effective July 15, 2009 for a period of one year, expiring in
July, 2010.
Member Sullivan further moved that TR-BIZ, LLC d/b/a Tech Results be
authorized and approved to supply the following products and services to
licensed riverboat casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the
requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules.
1.

Total Promo Software System and its component software.

Member Sullivan further moved to designate the following individuals, entities and
corporations as Key Persons of TR-BIZ, LLC d/b/a Tech Results:
1.
2.

President/Chief Financial Officer, and
Lars Matthew Klander.

Member Winker seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
● Aristocrat Technologies – Seamus M. McGill, Chief Operating Officer – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Seamus M. McGill as a Key Person for
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. in his position as Chief Operating Officer.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

8

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve 26 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 76
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Alissa Joy Pfaff;
Valentino William Peterson;
Pyran John Patton;
Trinidad Duran, and
Jennifer Sally Kapes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call.
At 1:50 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 