CHICAGO TRANSIT BOARD
Regular Meeting
Wednesday, September 13, 2017
1:00 P.M.
________
1.

ROLL CALL

2.

PUBLIC COMMENTS

3.

RTA Strategic Plan Presentation

4.

MINUTES: Regular Board meeting held August 9, 2017

5.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

6.

A.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property located at
9417-33 South State Street, Chicago, Illinois and payment of relocation
expenses for the 95th Street / Dan Ryan Terminal Improvement Project

B.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property located at
10 East Lake Street, Chicago, Illinois for the Your New Blue Project

C.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of a permanent air
rights easement over property located at 3335 North Sheffield Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois for the Red and Purple Modernization Project

D.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of property located at
3244 North Wilton Avenue, Chicago, Illinois for the Red and Purple
Modernization Project

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT AND BUDGET
REPORT
A.

To approve an ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement
with the City of Chicago through its Office of the City Clerk for the
purchase and use of Open Standards Fare System Cards for municipal
identification and fare payment

B.

To approve an ordinance consenting to the assignment of two leases for
property located at 1200-08 West Loyola Avenue and 1117 West Granville
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois (Red Line)

C.

To approve an ordinance authorizing a memorandum of understanding
with Preservation of Affordable Housing, LLC for conceptual design work
for improvements at the Cottage Grove Station (Green Line)

D.

To approve an ordinance authorizing an agreement with Norfolk Southern
Railway Company for preliminary engineering and real estate services for
the Red Line Extension

 Regular Board Meeting
September 13, 2017
Page Two
E.

To approve an ordinance authorizing funding for the exercise of an option
to extend Contract No. B12OP04206 with Genuine Parts Company d/b/a
NAPA

F.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the purchase of Blanket Railroad
Protective Liability Insurance for policy year November 1, 2017 through
October 31, 2018

G.

To approve an ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement
with the City of Chicago through its Department of Transportation for
reimbursement of costs incurred by the Chicago Transit Authority for the
expansion of the Midway Airport Parking Garage

H.

To approve 11 purchase and/or sales award recommendations

7.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT

8.

NEW BUSINESS

9.

MOTION TO ADJOURN

 