MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the July 22, 2014 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature; as such, they
are subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call.
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Additional Trustees Present:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair), Patrick McFadden, Diahann Goode
Brent Lewandowski and Alexis Herrera
Patrick Nestor, Sam Richardson
Nickol Hackett, Executive Director; Rachelle Howliet,
Brenda Deming, Rachel Farris, Gary LeDonne
Jessica Streit, Kirsten Goad and John Gingell of Segal
Company; Brent Smith, Peter McCauley, Ron Shilts, Mike
Phillips and Matt Alberico, of CIGNA; Joe Sampson, Bruce
Weiss, Mike Telesky, Sharon Burkemper and Jennifer
Oberholtzer, Pam Haskin of UnitedHealthcare; Sandy
Elstner, Jackie Kowalewski, Kevin Cassady, Don Sarthy,
Wes Chick, Rich Caroli, Rose Rocher, and Elif Oker of
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois

Public Comment.
Trustee Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee. There being no public
comment, the meeting continued.
1. Review and Consideration of the June 17, 2014 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Herrera to approve the minutes.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 2. Review of Medical Provider search, overview and finalist presentations
Ms. Deming reviewed the Fund’s proposed medical plan strategy, which is to reduce plan inflationary
trend over time by reducing administrative fees within our vendor contacts, leverage new discount
arrangements and more efficient provider networks, and help members gain control of their health issues
through engagement with disease management programs. She then reviewed the Fund’s current plan
structure, which includes two HMO offerings with variation between the networks, referrals required for
all specialist care and no out of network benefits available. The PPO plan has the broadest network, with
a differing plan design requiring a $300 deductible before any services are reimbursed, and out of
network benefits with associated higher plan cost.
Ms. Deming then outlined in broad terms the plan offerings for CIGNA and UnitedHealthcare as they
compare to the Fund’s current plan choices, noting that both finalist vendors offer an HMO product that
does not require selection of a primary care physician or referrals for specialists.
Presenter 1
CIGNA Health Care presented an overview of their service offering, focusing on their disease
management program as it relates to the Fund’s population, their 24 hour service line, member call
resolution and their customer service approach. An outline of the proposed service team for the Fund
was presented, including CIGNA team members who would service the account.
Presenter 2
UnitedHealthcare presented an overview of their comprehensive offering, focusing on their strategy for
improving customer health while controlling expense through the use of their Premium Designation
program.
Presenter 3 - Incumbent presentation
Blue Cross Blue Shield currently provides health benefits to the Fund and its account team presented
their organization structure and account management team. They discussed the HMO product and
indicated that it saved the Fund money. During questioning they were asked how member’s health is
being managed but they were unresponsive to the request due to the HMO structure and data
availability. Additionally they delegate wellness and health prevention efforts to individual practices and
were unable to provide any outcomes data or participation and screening rates. The Trustees questioned
the proposed increase for 2015, Mr. Cassady indicated that they would respond in follow up.
Jessica Streit then reviewed with the committee the networks proposed, and how they matched with the
current networks available under the Blue Advantage and Classic plans. In evaluating offers, the
Trustees considered the financial arrangements in addition to proposed member services and which
arrangement would be the best fit from a network perspective, to lower cost to the Fund and also to
members.
The trustees asked that the Fund staff and Segal request that each of the presenters provide their best and
final offers and that the meeting be reconvened when that information had been provided.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 3. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode to adjourn the meeting and
reconvene the meeting at a date to be determined.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 