MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 10, 1991
ALTON, ILLINOIS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 2:00 P.M. on
September 10, 1991 at the Holiday Inn in Alton, Illinois. The Special Meeting
was called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and notice was duly and timely
given to each Board member and to the general public in conformity with Section
2.02 of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr., Chairman; and
Board Members J. Thomas Johnson and Raymond Niepert. Member Robert Gibson was
present at the meeting via speaker telephone and was speaking from the offices
of the Chicago Federation of Labor in Chicago, Illinois. Member William
Chamblin was absent.
Also present were Morton E. Friedman, Administrator; Deputy Administrators Marcy
Wolf, Joseph McQuaid, J. Thomas Hutchison and Chief Legal Counsel Donna B. More;
other Gaming Board Staff, members of the media and the general public.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at 2:00 P.M.
The first order of business was consideration of an application for a Supplier's
License received from Kilmartin Industries, Incorporated. The Chairman
recognized Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman recommended that the application be
approved by the Board. He stated that Kilmartin Industries was already licensed
as a supplier in Iowa and Nevada and that the staff's background investigation
had revealed no derogatory information.
Mr. Niepert moved that the application of Kilmartin Industries, Incorporated to
be a Supplier of Gaming Equipment or Supplies to be approved. Mr. Gibson
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was
approved 4 ayes, 0 nays by voice vote.
Mr. Friedman next requested approval of the Board to conduct a final practice
gaming excursion with respect to the Alton Belle Casino. Mr. Friedman reviewed
the items for approval that were included in his request. He stated that the
casino's internal controls were adequate and had been approved by the outside
audit firm of Ernst and Young. Bother Board staff and Ernst and Young believe
that the internal controls will provide a basis for the ongoing review and
auditing of the enterprise and for the proper collection of taxes by the state.
The proposed rules for games were adequate and correctly depicted how games
would be conducted by employees of the Alton Belle Casino and the public. The
surveillance and security aspects are adequate, although Mr. Friedman noted a
minor problem with the Gaming Board surveillance room on board the boat due to a
conflict with certain U.S. Coast Guard regulations. Mr. Friedman stated that he
was confident that a reasonable and appropriate resolution of the problem would
be implemented in the near future.
The Alton Belle is accessible to handicapped individuals. Mr. Friedman noted
that the Alton enterprise has taken steps to assure that handicapped individuals
were able to fully participate in cruises and gaming.

 Hiring and staffing appear to meet balances by race and sex. Mr. Friedman noted
that the enterprise had made efforts to recruit minority employees and that
their efforts appeared to reflect the local labor market.
The slot monitoring system was tested and is properly functioning. The computer
chips ("EPROMs") which control both the slot machines and video poker machines
were tested and are in fact what they are represented to be. The EPROMs have
been sealed into the machines by Board staff.
The Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership has made a performance bond as required
by the Riverboat Gambling Act and a copy thereof has been filed with the Board.
The insurance coverage for the Alton Belle Casino has been reviewed by staff and
appears to be adequate. The communication system for the payment of taxes has
been established, tested and appears to be functioning properly. Mr. Friedman
concluded that the Alton Belle was prepared for the final practice gaming
excursion and upon its successful conclusion, was qualified to receive a
temporary operating permit.
Chairman Kunkle asked for discussion and recognized Member Johnson.
Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Gerald Smith, a partner with the audit firm of Ernst and
Young whether the surveillance system conflicted with the internal control
system. Mr. Smith responded that there had been no conflict apparent during the
review. Mr. Johnson noted that in the written report submitted by Ernst and
Young that compliance had not yet been tested. Mr. Johnson noted that the
statement was appropriate because the enterprise had not begun gaming operations
and it was a standard statement issued in the audit industry. There were no
further questions.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to conduct a final
practice gaming excursion with respect to the application of the Alton Riverboat
Gambling Partnership. Mr. Niepert seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the ayes and nays. The motion was approved 4 ayes and 0 nays be voice vote.
The Chairman asked for any old or new business. Member Johnson suggested that
the Chair outline for the public the remaining process for final licensure of
the Alton Belle Casino. Chairman Kunkle explained that the applicant was
authorized to conduct its final practice with Board staff to test the internal
controls and procedures. He noted that the Board would not be making decisions
during the final practice excursion as it would be a staff investigative
function. The Chairman noted that final licensing of the partnership would be
the subject a future Board meeting. In response to a question of Member
Johnson, the Chairman stated that representatives of Ernst and Young would be
present during the final practice gaming excursion. There were no further
questions or discussion.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Niepert seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the ayes and nays. The motion was approved 4
ayes and 0 nays be voice vote, and the Illinois Gaming Board stood adjourned at
2:17 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

JAMES A. NELSON

 SECRETARY OF THE BOARD

