STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 8, 2018
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.— at 160 W. LaSalle Street, 4th Floor, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Christopher Glynn, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Kimberly Stevens, Executive Director; Helen Kim, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal,
Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD April 10, 2018

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the April 10, 2018 meeting. Member Samolis moved to
approve the minutes. Member Glynn seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

REVIEW OF PROPOSED WRITTEN DECISIONS AND ORDERS
1. Case No. S-CA-17-037
Int’l Brotherhood of Electrical Employees, Local 193/City of Springfield

General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Snyder made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Case No. S-CA-18-073
Police Benevolent Labor Committee/Village of Glen Carbon (Police Department)

General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Glynn seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-CA-16-132
Service Employees Int’l Union of Healthcare Illinois & Indiana/State of Illinois, Department of
Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett called the case. The Board heard oral argument, recorded by a court reporter.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Hartnett made a motion to leave open session. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Samolis made a motion to go into executive session to discuss the evidence
presented in Case No. S-CA-16-132, pursuant to Section 2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120, et seq.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end
of the discussion, Member Samolis made a motion to leave executive session. Member Glynn seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Hartnett then made a motion to return to open session.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-CA-16-132
Service Employees Int’l Union of Healthcare Illinois & Indiana/State of Illinois, Department of
Central Management Services
After returning to open session, the Board had a short discussion and unanimously agreed to hold the case until the
June meeting for a decision.

 3. Case No. S-CA-17-017
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Rockford
General Counsel Kim asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to call and present the issues of the case
to the Board. After discussion, Member Glynn moved to accept the Executive Director dismissal. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4. Case No. S-CA-16-066
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Executive Director Stevens presented the mandate of the Illinois Appellate Court, Fifth District, to the Board. After
discussion, Chairman Hartnett allowed public comments from the representing attorneys in the case. The Board
requested information from the parties regarding their positions on a remedy in this case. Therefore, the Respondent
will file a brief on this issue, and the Charging Party will file a response. After discussion, Member Snyder moved to
hold the board’s order on remand until the June meeting. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

PUBLIC COMMENT

One member of the public asked a question regarding S-CA-16-066. No other members of the public sought to make
comments.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Samolis moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Springfield, Illinois, this 12th day of June 2018.

2

 