MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
December 18 and 19, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, December 18 and Tuesday, December 19, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois
Gaming Board (“Board”) was held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the
3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, James Sullivan and Eugene Winkler.
At 9:55 A.M. on Monday, December 18, 2006 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:30 p.m. The Board recessed
until Tuesday, December 19, 2006 at 9:00 a.m. At 9:25 a.m. on Tuesday December 19, 2006 the
Board recommenced its closed session meeting with all Board members present. The Board
convened its Open session at approximately 10:20 A.M. pursuant to motion.
Roll call was taken with five members present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Sullivan moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 20, 2006 and the open session minutes of November 20, 2006.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS
The Chairman announced that Deputy Administrator/Investigations, Tommie Wofford will be
retiring at the close of the year. The Chairman wished him well and announced the Mark Stevens
will be the new Deputy Administrator of Investigations with an effective date of January 1, 2007.

 ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT
Mark Ostrowski stated that the Tommie Wofford will be missed and wished him well in his
retirement. Mark stated that he will be meeting with each General Manager individually in the
near future.
BOARD POLICY ITEM

• 2007 Board Meeting Dates –
Based on Board and staff recommendations, Member Moore moved that the following
Board meeting dates for the calendar year of 2007 have been approved:
Monday, January 8th - Closed session only
Tuesday, January 9th - Closed and open session
Wednesday, February 21st - Closed session only
Thursday, February 22nd - Closed and open session
Tuesday, March 20th - Closed session only
Wednesday, March 21st - Closed and open session
Monday, April 16th - Closed session only
Tuesday, April 17th - Closed and open session
Monday, May 21st - Closed session only
Tuesday, May 22nd - Closed and open session
Monday, June 25th - Closed session only
Tuesday, June 26th - Closed and open session
Monday, July 16th - Closed session only
Tuesday, July 17th - Closed and open session
Monday, August 20th - Closed session only
Tuesday, August 21st - Closed and open session
Monday, September 17th - Closed session only
Tuesday, September 18th - Closed and open session
Monday, October 15th - Closed session only
Tuesday, October 16th - Closed and open session
Monday, November 19th - Closed session only
Tuesday, November 20th - Closed and open session
Monday, December 17th - Closed session only
Tuesday, December 18th - Closed and open session
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role
call vote.

2

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS

• Hollywood Casino – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve the Owner's License of the Hollywood Casino Aurora for a term of 4
years expiring in December 2010.
Furthermore, staff recommends that the IGB designate and approve the following
business entities, individuals and position as Key Persons of HCA.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Penn National Gaming, Inc.
Hollywood Casino Corporation
Chief Executive Officer
President
Director of HCA
Executive Vice President of Operation – Penn
National Gaming
Executive Vice President of Internal Audit – Penn
National Gaming
Peter M. Carlino
Leonard M. DeAngelo
Gregg W. Hart

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
role call vote.

• Harrah’s Joliet – Chris Riley, Vice President of Finance and Administration – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Chris Riley as a Level One Occupational Licensee of Harrah’s
Joliet. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by role call vote.

• Grand Victoria Casino – Fredrick Anderson, Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board approve Fredrick Anderson as a Level One Occupational Licensee of Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by role call vote.

3

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –

• PDS Gaming Corporation – Jess M. Ravich – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board designate the following individual as a key person of PDS Gaming
Corporation:

1.

Jess M. Ravich as a substantial owner of PDS Holding Company, Inc.,
the parent company of PDS Gaming Corporation.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
role call vote.

• Cummins – Allison Corp – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board renew the Supplier’s license of Cummins – Allison Corporation for a term of
four (4) years expiring in 2010.
Staff further recommends that the Board designate the following individuals as Key
Persons of Cummins – Allison Corporation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

President
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Operating Officer
Paul A. Jones
Anne Jones White
John E. Jones
William J. Jones
Douglas U. Mennie

Finally, staff recommends Cummins – Allison Corporation’s approved Supplier’s list
include Kiosk Model Series numbers 9010, 9011, 9012, 9013, 9014, 9015, replacement
parts, repair service, and technical support for Illinois riverboat casinos. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 13 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 80 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3.

4

 Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice
of Denial to the following applicant for Level 3 license, who previously received notice
that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide
additional information to rebut the recommendation:
1.

Kenneth Endemann

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
role call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
● In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Melissa Quigley
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Melissa Quigley, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her failure to ring up drinks that she was serving
to patrons and her keeping the payment for the drinks that she did not ring up.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Ms. Quigley’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call vote.
ADJOURNMENT
Member Winkler moved that the meeting reconvene into closed session at 10:40 a.m. and the
motion was seconded by Member Gardner. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 