MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
June 22 and 23, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, June 22, 2010 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, June 22, 2010 at approximately 9:40 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James
Sullivan. At 9:46 a.m. on Tuesday, June 22, 2010, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 11:49 p.m.
On Wednesday, June 23, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 11:44 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:40 p.m. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 1:02 p.m. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of May 19, 2010 and its Special Meeting of June 9, 2010. Member Gardner seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 ADMINISTATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Board and staff continue to work toward the
implementation of Video Gaming. As the result of the Board’s efforts, 50 additional staff
members have been hired. Additional Gaming Board Agents will be hired at a future date.
There will be a Special meeting for public commentary on additional video gaming rules on July
20, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. If anyone is interested in commenting, please forward all requests to the
Illinois Gaming Board.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
John Osterhaus John Osterhaus introduced himself as the new General Manager of Harrah’s Metropolis. Mr.
Osterhaus went on to share his professional experience with the Board and staff.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
●

Items for Initial Consideration – Empress Casino – license renewal

Jon Johnson, the General Manager of Empress, appeared before the Board to request initial
consideration for the casino’s license renewal. He then presented a video presentation on behalf
of the Empress Casino Joliet.
Tom Thanas, City Manager of the City of Joliet, addressed the Board and staff on behalf of
Empress Casino. Mr. Thanas expressed what a great asset the Empress Casino has been to the
City of Joliet’s economy and capital improvement.
John Grueling, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Will County Center for
Development, commended Empress Casino and stated that over the last four years Empress has
had a significant impact on the local economy. Many residents are employed by the Empress
Casino. Many local vendors and local charities have been impacted greatly from the generosity
of the Empress Casino.
Member Moore asked if the Empress Casino is at full operations and Mr. Johnson stated that the
Pavilion will be complete by December 29, 2010.
Member Moore, Member Winkler and Member Gardner commended Empress Casino on a great
presentation.
●

Items for Initial Consideration
●

Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. – Request to exchange unsecured notes, convert
non-voting common stock to voting common stock, register with the SEC and
authorize the Administrator to approve any subsequent registrations and stock
exchange listings

2

 Martha Sabol appeared before the Board on behalf of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
●

Items for Final Action
●

MGM – MGM Mirage’s request to allow Nevada Landing Partnership as a
Subsidiary Guarantor on Certain Debt

Paul Jenson appeared on behalf of MGM and Nevada Landing for final approval.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
pursuant to Section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules the Board approve
MGM’s request for board approval of Nevada Landing Partnership as a
Subsidiary Guarantor of the principal amount of $1.15 Billion of MGM’s
4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015, which were sold by MGM in
April, 2010 through private placement. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Mr. Jenson wanted to note for the record that MGM’s Mirage’s name has been changed to
MGM’s Resorts International.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, Inc. – Ownership approval

William Bettman attorney for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment appeared before the Board.
Based upon staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Sullivan moved
that the Board approve the following individuals as owners of Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment, Inc.:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Steven D. Latner;
Michael E. Latner;
Gerald R. Heffernan;
Joseph L. Rotman;
Monique A. Wilberg, and
Divyesh Gadhia.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – Cori A. Rutherford, Director of Operations, Level

1
Martha Sabol appeared before the Board on behalf of Par-A-Dice Casino along with Ms.
Rutherford.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve Cori A. Rutherford as an Occupational Licensee Level 1
in the position of Director of Operations for the Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino

3

 in East Peoria, Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – Jessica Lynn Bright, Internal Auditor, Level 1

Martha Sabol appeared before the Board on behalf of Par-A-Dice Casino along with Ms. Bright.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Jessica Lynn Bright as an Occupational Licensee Level 1
in the position of Internal Auditor for the Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino in
East Peoria, Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Elgin Riverboat Resort – Kenneth A. Rosevear, Executive Committee Member,
Key Person

Paul Jenson appeared before the Board on behalf of Mr. Rosevear.
Member Gardner asked who Mr. Rosevear is replacing on the committee;. Mr. Jenson stated that
he is replacing Gary Jacobs.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Kenneth A. Rosevear as a Key Person for
Elgin Riverboat Resort in his position as Executive Committee Member.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
●

Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service Company, Inc. – License Renewal

Mr. Aronivitz appeared before the Board on behalf of Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service
Company, Inc.
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board renew the Supplier’s License held by Atlantic City Coin & Slot
Service Company, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in June, 2014.
Staff further recommended that Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service Company,
Inc., be authorized and approved as a supplier of Electronic Gaming Device
components and parts for casino games in the State of Illinois, pursuant to
the requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules.
Furthermore Member Sullivan moved to designate the following individuals,
entities and corporations as Key Persons of Atlantic City Coin & Slot Service
Company, Inc.

4

 1. President; and
2. Maxie R. Seelig.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s –
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve 38 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and
101 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Ruben S. Muneton – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Ruben S. Muneton, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in
information to the Board.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Ruben S. Muneton’s
occupational license for 14 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Christopher R. Williamson – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Christopher R. Williamson,
an occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in
information to the Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Christopher R.
Williamson’s occupational license for 14 work days without pay. Said action
to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

5

 At 1:40 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 