Chicago Transit Authority
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Monday, April 10, 2017
Members Present
Chairperson:
Committee Members:

Excused:

Unexcused:
Facilitator:

Dorrell Smith
Pierre Bance (Arrived at 1:50 p.m.)
Angela Davis
Melissa Fuller
Grace Kaminkowitz
Donna K. Shaw
Christina McGleam
Aziza Nassar
Bryen Yunashko
Suzen Riley
Allen West
Carol Gomez
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs

Dorrell Smith, Committee Chairman called the meeting to order at 1:31 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves. As there were only 6 members present at the meeting,
there are not enough members for a quorum (need 7) so no voting can take place.
Announcements
 Facilitator Serpe stated that the following 5 members are excused: Christina McGlean, Aziza
Nassar, Bryen Yunashko, Suzen Riley and Allen West. Carol Gomez is unexcused.
 She further announced that Christina has given birth to a baby girl.
Approval of Minutes from January 9, 2017
 The January 9, 2017 Meeting Minutes were sent to all Committee members in advance for
review.
 Motions to approve the January Minutes could not be called and voting could not happen
because there was no quorum at this meeting.
 The January Minutes will be voted on with the April Minutes in July if a quorum is present.
 Facilitator Serpe did note that there was one change already made to the January Minutes. The
term “DeafBlind” was corrected within the document so that the “D” and “B” are both capitalized
and there is a “/” between the 2 words. This change appropriately reflects that Community.
General Construction Report Update
 Mr. Robert Wittmann, Vice President of Capital Construction presented the report.
 95th Station: “The contractor has completed installations on the structural steel, the caissons, the
new west barrier wall that separate the site from the highway and then the structural steel on top
of that. They completed the underground duct bank and drainage in that same area on the westside of the site and then reinstalled the track work on the west-side of the site. So now we have a
new track that goes from the station back into the yard. So we're able to move to the other side
now which is on the east-side of the site ... {We can} start the caisson work for the east-side and
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

1

 











then we can get the steel coming out of the ground there and get the terminal structural steel
going for the terminal so we can start enclosing the building.
Wilson Station: “In March, we just completed another phase of that project. We completed the
new track three, which is the northbound Red Line track. So that now we're able to demolish the
last piece of existing structure that was out there, get rid of that old steel and then build the last
track of the project which is track four. In addition, they're working on all three of the station
houses; the new main station house, the auxiliary house on the north-side of Wilson and the
Sunnyside auxiliary exit as well.”
Brown Line Signal Project: “The contractor has completed a majority of the signal brackets and
the cable installation along our existing structure. So that work is basically completed.”
Signal Project: “They've started foundation installation for the new relay houses at the first
location . . . at Cleveland Street up near the Sedgwick station. So the supports are being built . . .
in the factory, being wired in the factory and then they get shipped out to the job site for
installation and final connection.”
Quincy Station: “. . . we've completed some of the utility relocations . . . we can get two elevators
installed at Quincy and get those wrapped up by the end of this year.”
Illinois Medical District Station- IMD: “. . . Damen is currently closed. So work in there includes
demolition of the interior walls, the floor, as well as the floor slab on the concourse which is the
ramp down to the platform. All that work is being demolished so we can put new walls in, new
floors and rebuild that interior station house. That work will continue through the summer. We'll
reopen Damen later this summer and then that will allow them to move to the Ogden station
house.”
CDOT Projects: “. . . Washington/Wabash station. . . They're working on canopy steel and the
platform there. Elevator equipment install is ongoing there as well. . . . A lot of CTA support rooms
in the station are being built… at this time. So, per CDOT, that station should be open sometime
in mid-2017.”
There were no comments or questions from Committee members for Mr. Wittmann.

All Stations Accessibility Program – ASAP
 Sonali Tandon, Senior Project Manager Planning updated the Committee on CTA’s ASAP
Initiative.
 “Good afternoon! I’ll be providing an update on [the] All Stations Accessibility Program (ASAP)
and how we are progressing on different aspects of the program and incorporating feedback from
this Committee. First, I would like to respond to a public comment that was received in the
previous ADA Advisory Committee meeting about station prioritization. We initially shared the
needs and complexity analysis with this Committee in April of last year, and we provided an
update in October. At that time, we didn’t receive comments or concerns on the analysis, but it is
important to us that this Committee feels comfortable with our methodology and has an
opportunity to ask additional questions. To that end, I will explain that approach again this
morning, and I would welcome any questions either during or following this presentation. As a
reminder, the first five stations are Austin on the Lake Street Green Line, California, Irving Park
and Montrose on the O’Hare Blue Line, and Pulaski on the Forest Park Blue Line. These were
prioritized based on a score stemming from the needs and complexity analysis, which identified
high need and low complexity stations. The goal here was to help ensure successful projects in
the first few years of the program and then build on that initial success to galvanize support and
funding for the whole program. Additionally, more complex stations will require additional time for
planning and design, so they are programmed further out in the 20 years. The needs portion of
the analysis is based on 10 criteria that originated from the 2012 IATF [Infrastructure Accessibility
Task Force] Study. These include ridership, senior ridership, persons with disabilities ridership,
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

2

 station gap from closest accessible station, connections with bus routes, population, paratransit
riders, employment, university enrollment, and points of interest. Each station received a score for
each criterion, and then those scores were weighted, based on the working group’s agreement on
the significance of each criterion. For example, the overall “ridership” score received one of the
highest weights, since the Working Group felt that this was the best indicator of demand at those
stations. From this, a single weighted needs score was developed. Following the needs analysis,
we turned to complexity. The complexity for each station was scored based on existing site
conditions and the level of work necessary to accommodate ADA features. Because highly
complex stations will require more time for planning, design, construction, agency coordination
and community input, we did not want to prioritize them in the first five years, but they are part of
the 20 year program. We had initially prioritized Adams/Wabash as one of the first five stations
but after initial evaluation found that it would require full replacement to address the underlying
infrastructure issues and so it would be more complex than anticipated. In October of last year,
we provided an update to this Committee that Adams/Wabash was replaced with Irving Park
which is also high need but can be accomplished without full replacement. It is also important to
note that [the] Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT) is currently pursuing a full
replacement of the State/Lake station, which will provide another Loop station with full
accessibility. This is anticipated to occur within the next five years, dependent upon funding. For
stations that are part of the Red and Purple Modernization (RPM) Program and Blue Line Forest
Park Reconstruction Program, we fully adopted the schedule of those respective programs into
the ASAP schedule. The schedule of stations in the RPM program would be based on the RPM
phasing plan. Only Phase 1 of the RPM program has been funded and programmed. Central
station, which was referred [to] in the Public Comment [portion] at the last [ADA Advisory
Committee] meeting, would be part of a future phase of the RPM program. We are currently
seeking funding to advance the analysis of RPM future phases, which will help move the Central
station forward. It is important to consider how we package [the] RPM future phases to ensure
that they are eligible for Federal Core Capacity funding, which we hope will provide a significant
portion of the funding. For the Blue Line Forest Park Branch reconstruction, we are currently
planning that this work would largely happen in coordination with [the] Illinois Department of
Transportation (IDOT) roadway and bridge work. The schedule of remaining ASAP stations is
based on both the needs score, as well as on construction staging considerations. The schedule
is being crafted to minimize conflict between various CTA construction projects and to minimize
service and street disruption with the ultimate goal of making all the remaining stations accessible
over the next 20 years. We will have more detail on our prioritization process and schedule in the
final ASAP report, which we expect to release in the middle of this year. I would also like to share
with you the various considerations that we have taken into account during the design process to
make stations accessible. With an average age of 75 years, the remaining inaccessible stations
all have their own unique set of needs and site constraints. Most of the CTA stations are adjacent
to expressway, roadway, freight tracks, and/or dense built environment, which often limit the
platform width for changes. For each station design, we have evaluated structural changes and
removal of platform impediments, which would be needed to accommodate one or more elevators
and allow wider platform clearances for easy maneuverability of a wheelchair or other mobility
device. We have considered the right type and size of elevator that would fit within the physical
constraints of each station. We have looked at historic aspects of the station or adjacent buildings
that could be impacted. We have reviewed the need for additional exits from the station to meet
requirements for fire safety and the need for property acquisition. We have evaluated the
underground utilities that might be impacted and whether these can be avoided. And we have
considered pedestrian safety and connections outside the station, as well as way-finding
upgrades and changes. We have done all of this in order to develop design concepts that
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

3

 1.

2.

3.

4.
5.

6.

address the accessibility needs while fully addressing the site constraints, so that we know we
are programming station concepts that can actually be built. We heard from this Committee on
the need to incorporate additional way finding elements in the ASAP stations, including
improvements for people who are blind or have reduced vision, as well as those who have both a
hearing and visual impairment. We also met with Mr. Yunashko in January to get his feedback
and learn from his specific experience. CTA’s sub-consultant, LCM Architects, who are experts
on accessibility and universal design have been researching existing way finding technologies
and systems that are used in public spaces, to advise us on what might be suitable for application
in CTA stations. Additionally, we are investigating these treatments by asking other transit
agencies who have used them about their experience, coordinating internally within different CTA
departments to understand and develop a recommendation on what would be suitable for our
system, and coordinating with CDOT. We also welcome any feedback from this Committee on
these way-finding options or others with respect to rail stations. It is CTA’s hope that one or more
of these could be implemented, either as a separate pilot or as part of an ASAP station concept.
We also understand that there is no one way-finding approach that would meet the needs of all
transit users and a combination of different solutions may be needed. We have identified six
categories of way-finding systems – 1) Tactile Ground Surface Indicators, 2) Floor Graphics, 3)
Pedestrian Routes to Bus Stops and Accessible Pedestrian Signals (APS), 4) Tactile Maps, 5)
Directional Signage, and 6) Way-Finding Applications. Some of these may be more suitable for
application in [the] CTA system than others and some may be more suitable for application in
certain types of stations. I’ll go over each of these one by one in more detail and additional
information will be available in the final report.
Tactile Ground Surface Indicators assist pedestrians who are blind or have a visual impairment in
navigating the environment. There are of two types –
a.
Tactile warning surfaces are the truncated domes that you see at the edge of CTA
platforms. These are in widespread use in the United States on transit platform edges and
[at] the bottom of curb ramps.
b.
Tactile directional surfaces indicate the direction of travel – these are more commonly
used in Asia, Europe, and Canada. A common concern with these is that they may also
create obstructions for wheelchair users when placed in a common pathway.
Floor Graphics employing color, high contrast, patterns and light can enhance identification of
routes through a complex station; can help identify important elements such as fare arrays or
vertical transportation, or help navigate details like stair [tread] nosings. It is helpful for people
who have some sight and [generally] rely on that sight, as well as other aids, to navigate through
the environment. The CTA has used contrasting colors on stair tread nosings and landings in
some recent station projects.
Pedestrian Routes to Bus Stops and APS – These include treatments related to curb ramps,
crosswalks with cane detectable surfaces, color contrasting crosswalk borders, and APS, which
provides information for pedestrians at street crossings through audible signals and vibro-tactile
surfaces. The CDOT is currently analyzing different technologies for APS and is working on a
pilot program.
Tactile Maps – Tactile maps are modeled using raised surfaces to enable people who are blind or
visually impaired to plan routes through a rail system, a transit line, or a building.
Directional Signage – Since [it is estimated that about] 85% of the people considered blind or
visually impaired retain some [form of useful] vision and rely on that limited vision, it is important
to provide information and directional signage that allows people with low vision to move
independently. The CTA currently provides required directional and informational signage.
Way-Finding Applications - These are being developed for smart phones that use Wi-Fi and
beacons for interior mapping and navigation. This is an emerging technology. DC Metro recently
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

4

 









implemented a pilot project in one of their stations. One limitation of this system is that it may be
only useful to people with smartphones.
Based on this analysis, our proposed recommendation for ASAP is to:
1.
Find pilot station locations for tactile ground surface indicators and additional floor graphics
– we will need to analyze both how this works functionally and the materials that could be
used;
2.
Coordinate with CDOT on pedestrian routes outside rail stations to bus stops and potential
installation of APS
3.
Explore tactile signage at bus stops to assist with exact location. CTA is currently
preparing rail station guides to assist with navigation inside rail stations, which will be
available online soon and will serve a similar purpose as tactile maps.
4.
Further enhance directional signage and lighting in stations
5.
Seek feedback on way-finding apps from users in other systems on adaptability and
usability of these apps and remain engaged on the topic with the goal of potentially
adopting something like this when the technology is better proven.
We are targeting the middle of 2017 to complete the ASAP Strategic Plan and to share that with
this group. The Strategic Plan would include information on each station design concept, elevator
replacement program, program schedule, estimated program costs, and way-finding elements all
of which we are currently reviewing and finalizing. In [the] near future, we will also be applying for
grants for different elements of ASAP including way-finding and will be requesting letters of
support from this Committee. Thank you for your past support on RPM Phase One, we hope to
continue partnering with this Committee as we pursue future funding for ASAP. I’ll be happy to
take questions and comments.”
Ms. Fuller had a question regarding the Blue Line Pulaski station and which phase it will fall into.
Ms. Tandon responded saying that they are proposing it to be one of the first five ASAP stations
and that it will be done in coordination with IDOT.
Ms. Fuller had a second question regarding what accessibility features will be provided at the
Blue Line Pulaski station? Ms. Tandon replied “That would include adding an elevator at one end
and the ramp would be at the other end. . . . Widening the platform is part of the Forest Park
Branch Reconstruction Program.”’
Mr. Pierre Bance had a question regarding what ASAP stands for. Ms. Tandon stated that ASAP
stands for All Stations Accessibility Program.
Ms. Donna Shaw had a question regarding the announcements made on the train, and if the
verbal announcements will ever be posted inside the train. Facilitator Serpe said “. . . [That] at this
point we don't have the capacity on our rail cars to do that. . . . We are aware that this is an issue
within the Deaf and Hearing Impaired community and we're trying to figure out [how] we can
better accommodate the need.”

Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 Committee members received the Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports in advance of the
meeting for their review.
 Andre Cozzo, Senior Manager for Escalator/Elevator Maintenance reported on the status of the
elevator and escalator efficiencies and projects.
 Mr. Cozzo gave the following update: “The escalators that had been reconditioned this year were
an escalator at O'Hare. The escalator that goes down from the mezzanine to the platform. We
started that March 3rd and completed it March 25th. Currently we are working at Red Line Loyola
that started March 30th and the future reconditions will be Montrose Blue, River Road Blue and
Howard Red.”
 For the 1st quarter of 2017 vs. Q-1 in 2016, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

5

 



 Jan 2016 = 99.2% Jan 2017 = 99.2% (0.00%)
 Feb 2016 = 99.4% Feb 2017 = 98.9% (-0.5%)
 Mar 2016 = 99.5% Mar 2017 98.9% (-0.6%)
For the 1st quarter of 2017 vs. Q-1 2016, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:
 Jan 2016 = 97.5% Jan 2017 = 96.9% (-0.6%)
 Feb 2016 = 96.3% Feb 2017 = 95.8% (-0.5%)
 Mar 2016 = 97.3 Mar 2017 97.3% (0.00%)
Ms. Fuller had one question regarding the drop in percentage within the elevator report and what
did it mean? Mr. Cozzo explained that in March of 2017 there were more deficiencies than in
March of 2016. The percentage is the efficiency of the elevators/escalators. If the percentage
drops they are less efficient.

Customer Service Report
 Kate Kennelly, Manager Customer Feedback Programs presented the Customer Service Report
to the Committee.
 Committee members received the Customer Service Statistical Reports in advance of the
meeting for their review.
 Ms. Kennelly started by stating, “Overall complaints decreased 30 percent from the previous
period which follows a similar trend as last year at the same time. Using historical data as an
indicator, we are expecting complaints to increase in the Spring and Summer months before
trending back down again. ADA complaints accounted for four percent of all complaints this
quarter, which is slightly lower than last year when ADA complaints accounted for five percent.
There were 3,812 total complaints logged, 144 of which were identified as ADA-related. Although
complaints peaked in March totaling 53, this is an improvement over last year. In March 2016,
complaints totaled 64. So this is a 17 percent improvement.”
 The following are 1st quarter statistics regarding disability-related Customer Services complaints
 Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-1, 2017 (Jan., Feb. & Mar.), = 3,812 of which
144 were disability-related complaints.
 Q-1 Bus Related Complaints: Jan. 38, Feb. 38, and Mar. 46 totaling 122.
 Q-1 Rail Related Complaints: Jan. 5, Feb. 10, and Mar.7 totaling 22.
 During the 3 month 2017 Q-1 period, there were a total of 47 ADA Compliance Complaints which
include such things as not assisting customers with disabilities, not complyng with ADA rules, not
helping to secure wheelchairs and fare disputes. During the same period in 2016, there were 57
complaints in this category.
 Additional categories include:
 In Q-1 Rude Operators accounted for 38 complaints in 2017 vs. 34 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Pass-Ups totaled 20 complaints vs. 29 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS totaled 13 complaints vs. 0 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Lift/Ramp Issues totaled 10 complaints vs. 14 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Priority Seating Issues totaled 6 complaints vs. 1 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Failure to Announce Stops totaled 3 complaints vs. 2 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Elevator Malfunction totaled 2 complaints vs. 6 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Failure/Refusal to Deploy Gap Filler totaled 2 complaints vs. 1 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Stroller Issue totaled 2 complaints vs. 3 in 2016.
 In Q-1 2017 Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 1 complaint vs. 8 in 2016.
 Ms. Fuller had a question regarding, what is the number one complaint the CTA System
receives? Ms. Kennelly replied that the number one complaint is being passed up by a Bus
Operator.
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

6

  Ms. Fuller had another question, about what happens to the complaints when the customers file
them? Ms. Kennelly said that, “The CTA tracks each and every complaint, concern, inquiry that
we receive from customers. So what happens is the Customer Service Department takes the
information and gives it to the management team responsible for the operator involved [or] the
route involved. [She also explained that]… [the complaint] … might not be [about] a garage or
terminal. It can also be an internal department here in this building. So we're responsible for
getting it to the right place and then making sure those complaints get follow-up and [are] closed
in a timely manner.”
 Ms. Davis had a question regarding a situation she had with a CSA, when they wouldn’t swipe
her card for her to pay. Facilitator Serpe responded saying that the CSAs are allowed to help you
swipe when asked to do so if they are visible, say, in front of you. The time when they are not
allowed to assist you is when it comes to taking your money or card out of your personal
belongings such as a wallet, purse, etc.
Bus Express Signage
 Mike Haynes, Manager of Transit Systems Support provided information and a demonstration
related to the Bus Express Signage system.
 Facilitator Serpe stated that the following demonstration is being done to address previously
stated concerns especially from Ms. Shaw and the Deaf/Hard-of-Hearing Community to illustrate
that there is something in place that lets customers know that a bus is now going express.
 An added purpose of the demo is to receive additional feedback from the Committee regarding
how the type of visual signal can be improved to provide a better type of alert which lets bus
customers know that a visual message is coming.
 Mr. Haynes stated that, “… So to follow up with what Amy said while the Clever Devices system
boots up, what we have here is what we call a bus on a box. It's a bus simulator. So the
discussion was that when a public service message is played manually not – I'll explain automatic
and manual in a second – When a public service message [such as when a bus is going
Express], is played manually, that the request was that the sign would somehow indicate that so
that those [customers who are] unable to hear could be alerted, Hey, there is a message on this
sign that I should read, that I should pay attention to. In contrast to the automatic public service
messages which are played every 15 minutes, … ‘Please move to the rear’ or ‘Give up your seat,
etc.’ There [are] about a half dozen of those [courtesy announcements]. This [system] would not
[provide] alerts on those [type of announcements] since they're routine.”
 Mr. Haynes explained that what happens now is that there is a brief flashing signal that indicates
a special announcement is coming. “ ‘To improve bus reliability, this bus will run express" and
what was displayed on the screen -- and what was displayed on the screen was ‘Bus will
express.’ So what I want you to do is look at the screen as I play one of these messages and you
will see a shortened version of the message on the screen and then what I will do is I will show
you what it can look like to alert you that there is a message on the screen.” He explained that
there is one sign in the front of a 40 foot, standard bus and 2 signs on an articulated bus, one in
front and one near the back door. What people see in the front also happens on the sign in the
back.
 Currently, there is a short lead-in to the Express Announcement which are flashing dots. Mr.
Haynes also demonstrated a longer lead-in flashing solid line signal which could be an option
instead of the briefer flashing dots. Committee members preferred the longer lead-in solid lines
which they felt provided more time for a customer to recognize that a visual message will follow.
 Although Ms. Shaw would like for the sign to identify what stops are being expressed over, the
system does not have that capacity at this time. Also, Mr. Haynes explained that while the
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

7

 

Committee preferred the longer flashing lead-in sign, this is something that needs to go back to
the vendor to see what is possible and there is also a cost involved in this process.
Mr. Haynes followed up and said he will speak with the vendor regarding the types of messages
that are possible. He also noted that the coding will take a while and by the October 2017
meeting, he should have a new demo of the system and may be able to return to this Committee
for a further demonstration.

Facilitator Report
 Ms. Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs and ADA Advisory Committee Facilitator,
presented the Facilitator’s Report.
 Facilitator Serpe provided information regarding the following topics:
On April 19, 2017 from 4:00-6:00pm there will be familiarization training/site visit at the

new UTSC (Union Transit Station Center) on Jackson between Clinton and Canal Streets.
The training is offered in response to requests especially from the Blind and Visually
Impaired Community to enable them to more efficiently maneuver through the new Bus
Station/Terminal. Fliers have also been distributed via e-mail and are in Committee
member packets.
Facilitator Serpe noted that the Ethics Training is rescheduled to July because the bylaws

need to be discussed at this current meeting. This training is required for all CTA
Employees, Committee Members, etc.
Facilitator Serpe thanked Ms. Davis for bringing attention to issues regarding the Wilson

Station in terms of how barriers were setup on the street as construction continues. She
explained that she and the Wilson Project Manager visited the site and that the contractor
has made improvements to types of detectable barriers that are being used and bolder
more defined signage to the overall path-of-travel based on their recommendations.
At the last meeting Bryen suggested identifying Committee members’ disability on the

website. Facilitator Serpe said that this will not happen as a person’s type of disability is
personal information and the CATA does not identify any individual’s – either staff, Board
member, etc. – personal information on its Website or anywhere else. If any Committee
member wants to disclose their disability either privately or publically, that is up to them.
The ADA Advisory Committee list has the names of members and if they are associated
with any particular organization.
Facilitator Serpe noted that not everyone has turned in their CTA Statement of Financial

Interest form, completion of which is required for all Committee members.
 Ms. Davis was curious about what is required of contractors who work on CTA construction
projects in terms of “… shore lining type of scaffolding,” as it relates to ADA compliance?
Facilitator Serpe did not know what specifics are in the contract but can check and provide an
answer at the next meeting.
 Ms. Kaminkowitz added that it would be helpful if the temporary ramps at construction sites were
more useable.
Public Comment
 Ms. Heather Armstrong brought up her concerns about bus stops. She finds that the bus drivers
either let her out in the middle of the street or in front of the bus shelter, where she is unable to
get out. Facilitator Serpe asked Ms. Armstrong if there is one station where this happens the
most? Ms. Armstrong has experienced this issue a lot at the #124 Bus Route that stops at Navy
Pier. Ms. Armstrong also added that the bus drivers expect her husband to assist her when
getting off the bus.
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

8

 













Mr. Steven Hastalis has a concern about the accuracy of the terminology used to relay
information about elevators and escalators. Mr. Hastalis brought up that, an announcement about
the escalator rehabilitation at Loyola, mentioned that the escalator when t\from the mezzanine to
platform, but that there is no mezzanine level at that station. Facilitator Serpe let Mr. Hastalis
know that if there is something that doesn’t make sense the information can be checked out with
the sending department to ensure accuracy.
Mr. Hastalis also brought up a complaint about the CSA’s asking him more than once if he needs
help, after he kindly responds, “No”. Facilitator Serpe responded that as part of the ADA and
Disability Awareness Trainings she conducts for staff, especially for CSAs, she explains that an
offer of assistance should be made but if declined, the CSA or any staff should not persist in
asking the question.
Mr. Garland Armstrong was curious as to when the CTA Bus Operators would be receiving their
awards. He noticed that Pace drivers received their Million Miles Award. Facilitator Serpe said
that the good works of many Bus Operators have been acknowledged at many CTA’s Board
meetings.
Mr. Armstrong was also curious as to when more of the Bus Tracker signs were going to be put at
different locations. Facilitator Serpe noted that the first part of that project has been completed
and that they are looking at ways to further implement tracking signs at more bus stops as funds
become available for this type of project.
Mr. Charles Petrof stated he was very impressed with the community’s interest in the ASAP
project and with the CTA’s commitment to providing accessibility. Mr. Petrof wants clarification on
what certain advantages are included in the Needs Assessment in terms of ranking stations? He
said he did not hear anything about if medical providers were close to a station would that
influence selection? He also said the same regarding if a station was near a government office.
He felt that these locations would be of use to people with disabilities. He again used the Central
stop on the Purple Line as an example which, as has been previously explained, will be made
vertically accessible as part of the Red/Purple Modernization (RPM) Program. Mr. Petrof also
asked about how newer technologies have been considered within the ASAP project? He brought
up an example that New York City has added escalators that have a wider platform bottom which
a wheelchair user can access. Facilitator Serpe responded saying that she will reach out to the
Planning Department regarding these issues.
Mr. Jamal Powell came today to ask for clarification regarding CTA’s policy regarding Priority
Seating. Does the policy require that people who are not disabled have to move out of their seat
and who gets the priority seat – a wheelchair user or someone with a stroller? Facilitator Serpe
again clarified the policy which is that the CTA may request people to move but cannot require
people to do so. The Bus Operator should make an announcement asking individuals to move,
but they cannot force someone to move. There are also automated announcements that explain
that Priority Seating is intended for the elderly and people with disabilities. Currently, the CTA
does not require that strollers be folded if there is room for them on the bus. Again, the Bus
Operator should be asking them to be folded if the Priority Seats are needed for people with
disabilities.
Mr. Powell wanted to reflect back on Mr. Hastalis comment about the CSA’s asking more than
once if they need assistance. Mr. Powell experienced a similar situation. Facilitator Serpe noted
that the public a majority of the time is not trying to be rude, but they are trying to be helpful.

Old Business- Continuation of By-Laws Review and Discussion
 The By-Laws discussion is a continuation from the January meeting.
 Facilitator Serpe noted that there are two sheets in members’ packets regarding the Vice Chair
and Sub-Committee issues discussed at the last meeting. She read the information below on both
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

9

 







sheets to provide access to individuals who are blind or visually impaired both on the Committee
and in the audience.
Committee Member Response to Sub-Committees Issue Raised at the
January 9, 2017 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting
Should a Committee Vice-Chair be appointed to the ADA Advisory Committee?

4 = Number of members who responded to the e-mail.

4 = Number of respondents who responded in favor.

0 = Number of respondents who were opposed.

8 = Number of members who did not respond.

2 = Number of respondents who were interested in being considered If their schedules
permit.

Additional Comments

“Nominating a Vice- Chairperson would be a good idea if there is enough interest in the
sub-committees. This individual could assist our Chairperson with coordinating the efforts
of these smaller groups.”

“I think having at least one more position on the board could be helpful to spread some
responsibility throughout the group.”

“I believe Dorrell, Committee Chair, is doing an outstanding job. However, if it is
determined that the committee should have a Vice Chair, in her absence, I am in
agreement.”
Facilitator Serpe asked those members present who did not respond to the email what their
thoughts were on this topic. After that discussion, there were five members in favor and two
members opposed to having a Vice Chair.
Facilitator Serpe read responses to the second question related to Sub-Committees as stated
below.
Committee Member Response to Sub-Committees Issue Raised at the
January 9, 2017 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting
Should 3 sub-committees (Mobility, Sensory and Cognitive) become part of the ADA Advisory
Committee?

4 = Number of members who responded to the e-mail.

2 = Number of respondents who responded in favor.

2 = Number of respondents who were opposed.

8 = Number of members who did not respond.

1 = Number of respondents who were interested in possibly chairing a sub-committee..

Additional Comments

“Mobility and sensory are the categories that I most relate to… However I am willing to
work on all three committees if necessary.”

“In regards to the subcommittees, I feel they should be more topic based. If something
comes up during the meetings and we feel more of a discussion is necessary I think a
subcommittee could be formed on this. I don't think they need to be set topics with set
group members.”

“I am not in agreement to [have] sub committees. I believe the ADA Advisory Committee is
effectively mediating between CTA and the disabled community.”
ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

10

 



Facilitator Serpe asked those who did not respond to the email what their thoughts are on this
topic. Ms. Kaminkowitz felt that standing Committees are a bit too bureaucratic.
She and others seemed to be in favor of an ad-hoc type of Committee if, from time to time, there
are specific issues that people want investigated.
The Committee continued their discussion on the By-Laws as Chairman Smith read the remaining
articles (2-4) and gave members the opportunity to ask questions or make comments. There was
no additional discussion.

New Business
 No new business was requested to be added to the July meeting agenda.
Adjournment
 Chairman Smith announced that the next ADA Advisory Committee Meeting will be held Monday,
July 10th, 2017 from 1:30 to 4:00 p.m. The meeting will be located in the second floor Boardroom
of CTA Headquarters.
 Although Ms. Shaw and Ms. Fuller moved to adjourn the meeting, no formal vote could be taken
as a quorum was not present.
 The meeting ended at 3:27pm.
ajs – July 6 2017

ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes for April 10, 2017

11

 