STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on October 6, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; Michael Hade, Member
of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of the State Panel; Charles Anderson, Member of the Local
Panel; Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Local Panel; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JOINT PANEL MEETING HELD DECEMBER 9, 2008

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the December 9, 2008 meeting. Member
Washington made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the
motion—four in favor, none against—Member Coli and Chairman Zimmerman abstained.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS

A. The Board discussed meeting on the second Tuesday of each month in 2010, and having one or
two of those meetings in the Springfield office, with the Local Panel meetings to begin at 10:00
a.m. and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.
B. The Board considered the application of Mr. Robert Costello for addition to the agency's
mediation/arbitration roster. The Board discussed the applicant's overall experience and
background. At the conclusion thereof, Member Coli made a motion to add Mr. Costello to the
Board's mediation/arbitration roster. Member Washington seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss
personnel matters. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session.
Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member
Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, this 10th day of November, 2009.

 