STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 10, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Martin J. Kehoe,
Michelle N. Owen, and Anna Hamburg-Gal also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 12, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the April 12, 2011 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from April 1 to April 30, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-11-034
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/City of Carbondale

Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting Petitioner's pending request for oral argument. Counsel
Kehoe reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Hamburg-Gal's
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to deny the request for oral argument. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. After a discussion
of the merits, Member Coli moved to accept Counsel Kehoe's recommendation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-232
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local No. 916/Illinois Attorney General
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Kazanjian's memorandum,
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the Board
accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Kimbrough moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-RC-09-123
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/County of Winnebago/Sheriff of Winnebago
County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting Petitioner's pending request for oral argument. Counsel
Owen reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the
Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to grant the request for

 oral argument. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
4.
Case No. S-RC-09-184
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/City of Springfield
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Tansino's memorandum,
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Kehoe's RDO, and recommended that the Board
accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-10-176
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept in part, and reject in part, the
ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to reject the entirety of the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion. The motion passed with three ayes and two
nays; Member Hade and Chairman Zimmerman dissented, contending that the matter should be remanded
to the ALJ.
6.
Case No. S-CA-10-281
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/Chief Judge Circuit Court of Cook
County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Hamburg-Gal reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation.
After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-UC-10-194 and Case No. S-UC-10-196
United Automobile Workers of America, Local No. 974/City of Mason City
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Hamburg-Gal's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do
so.
8.
Case No. S-CB-11-031
Village of Willow Springs/International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
February 9, 2011, with an appeal filed. Counsel Hamburg-Gal reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Hade seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
9.
Case No. S-CA-11-058
Sherwin Baker/Peoria Housing Authority
Case No. S-CB-11-006
Sherwin Baker/American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued dismissals on
December 21, 2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Kehoe reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director's dismissals. After discussion, Member
2

 Kimbrough moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissals. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

General Counsel Post, who previously notified the Board of the existence the Employer's Motion to
Reconsider Appointment of an Arbitrator in Case No. S-MA-09-244, detailed his intended disposition of
the matter and his reasoning. No member of the Board moved to place the motion on its agenda for a vote,
or otherwise voiced disagreement with the General Counsel's planned disposition of the motion. General
Counsel Post then updated the Board as to the agency's recent court activity. Executive Director Brosnan
presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record.
Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency. After a short
discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of June, 2011.

3

 