STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on January 11, 2011

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Joseph F. Tansino,
Sharon B. Wells, Elaine L. Tarver, and Deanna L. Rosenbaum also acted as counsel to the Board at this
meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 14, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the December 14, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Kimbrough seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from December 1 to December 31, 2010. He presented the report and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-11-008
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
County of Warren/Sheriff of Warren County

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. The Board heard oral argument, recorded by a court reporter. At
the conclusion of the parties' arguments, the Board had a short discussion and unanimously agreed to hold
the case until later in the agenda for a decision.
2.
Case No. S-UC-08-460
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Tansino reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Bell's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that
the Board accept in part, and reject in part, the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-10-055
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Richton Park
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After
discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-RC-10-122
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Tansino reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Tarver's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion,
Member Kimbrough moved to accept the counsel's recommendation except as to petitioned-for employee
Jarvis, whom she moved to exclude as confidential. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-11-008
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
County of Warren/Sheriff of Warren County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 28, 2010, with an appeal filed, and earlier in the meeting, the Board heard oral argument in this
matter. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and recommended that the Board
accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Hade moved to reverse the executive
director's dismissal and order the issuance of an interest arbitration panel. Member Washington seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CB-10-035
Linda S. Brooks/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on June 1,
2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Tarver reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and recommended
that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept
Counsel Tarver's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-10-219
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 456/Village of Western Springs
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July 7,
2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Rosenbaum reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board accept the executive director's dismissal. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the executive director's dismissal. Member Hade seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

2

 8.
Case No. S-UC-10-252
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local No. 26/Village of Mahomet
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a decision and order
on September 21, 2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Tansino reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's decision and order. After discussion,
Member Kimbrough moved to accept the executive director's decision and order. Member Hade seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. The Chair and Members then discussed and questioned various aspects of the fiscal
report. Executive Director Brosnan addressed all their questions. Thereafter, General Counsel Post
presented a report on pending litigation, reviewing in detail the status of the agency's caseload in the
various districts of the Illinois Appellate Court. The Chair and Members discussed the report and raised
certain questions regarding it. General Counsel Post addressed all their questions. Executive Director
Brosnan then presented a report on the status of legislation that could affect the agency, specifically
SB3383 and SB3644. General Counsel Post presented a report on operational statistics, which the Chair
and Members reviewed and discussed. Thereafter, the Board decided there was no need for executive
session.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of February, 2011.

3

 