SPECIAL MEETING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the October 31, 2016 Special Meeting of the Board
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call
Trustees Present:

John Fitzgerald, Diahann Goode, Alexis Herrera, Andrew Jatico, Bill
Kouruklis, Patrick McFadden, Joseph Nevius, Dennis White, Lawrence
Wilson

Staff Present:

Nickol R. Hackett, Executive Director & CIO; Michael Maratea, Director
of Finance and Administration; Gary LeDonne, Senior Policy Advisor;
Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor; Brent Lewandowski, Senior
Benefits Manager; Beverly Romanini, Office Manager; Fernando
Vinzons, Sr. Investment Officer; Kwesi Quaye, Investment Analyst;
Courtney Hollins, Communications Manager; Marina Sirot, Project
Compliance Analyst

Others Present:

Mary Pat Burns, Burke Burns & Pinelli: Tony Johnson, RVKuhns Inc.;
Ryan Sullivan, RVKuhns Inc.; Larry Langer, Buck Consultants

Trustee Herrera, President of the Board, opened the meeting for public comment and, no member of the
public being present and requesting to address the Board, the next item of business on the Agenda was
considered.
1. Presentation of Supplemental Liquidity Analysis Review
Nickol R. Hackett, Executive Director & CIO, stated that the Fund’s actuary, Buck Consultants, had
discussed current strategies in the funding of public sector pension funds at the Board’s meeting in
May, 2015. The Board did not take any position on a funding policy at that time, but requested a
liquidity study of the County Fund to assist in the Board’s evaluation of appropriate funding policies

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 to be conducted by RVKuhns Inc. Larry Langer, of Buck Consultants, stated that while there is not
a defined funding policy for public sector funds, generally contributions should cover the system’s
cost of benefits accruing for current employees plus an amount to pay down any unfunded liability
over no more than thirty years. He added that the Fund’s statutory funding methodology as required
by the Illinois Pension Code, does not meet these standards and is not based on the actuarial needs
of the Fund.
Ryan Sullivan and Tony Johnson, of RVKuhns, Inc., then presented the supplemental Asset/Liability
Study of the County Fund based on various funding policy scenarios. The study was based upon
four contribution policies, including the current statutory contributions required by the Illinois
Pension Code, in conjunction with alternate investment strategies, to determine the ability of the
County Fund to meet its future obligations. The study showed that under the current contribution
policy, the County Fund will face substantial and increasing financial challenges over the next 20
years. While the continued diversification of the County Fund’s assets pursuant to its Investment
Policy is desirable, liquidity restraints in the next eight to ten years will limit the Board’s ability to
make investments in non-liquid assets, which will result in less favorable investment returns.
Regardless of the investment strategy employed, the study concludes that it is almost certain that
within 20 years the County Fund’s benefit obligations will exceed its assets and expected
contributions based on contribution policies in place. At that time, additional revenue will be
necessary to sustain the County Fund’s ability to make benefit payments. The studies provided that
these liquidity concerns can be materially improved, but only if significant changes are made to the
contribution policy.
2. Presentation and Funding Policy Review
Mr. Langer addressed the Board and noted that the past actuarial valuations prepared for the Fund
have stated that the current statutory contributions provided by the Illinois Pension Code are
insufficient to meet the Fund’s actuarial needs and will ultimately result in its insolvency. He again
stated that while there is no mandated funding policy within the public sector, GASB 25 and 27
provide for the payment of accruing benefits and the retirement of unfunded pension liabilities and
have served as a ‘de facto’ funding policy for public plans. Mr. Langer stated that a funding policy
should be based upon actuarially determined contributions and incorporate three elements: 1) an
actuarial cost method, which would require contributions to fully fund the costs of long-term
benefits promised to employees; 2) an asset smoothing method, which would recognize gains and
losses in pension assets over a period of time to reduce the effects of market volatility and stabilize
contributions and 3) an amortization policy to reduce unfunded pension liability. Mr. Langer
acknowledged that the fixed contribution requirement provided by the Illinois Pension Code allows
for efficiency in the budgeting process, but it does not require taxpayers to pay for the costs of
promised pension benefits while the employees are providing their services. Instead, those costs will
be paid by the taxpayers of future generations. It was the recommendation of the actuary that the
Fund adopt a funding policy requiring the employer to make contributions based upon its actuarial
needs.
3. October 26, 2016 Board of Commissioners Pension Committee Report
President Herrera stated that the Fund staff had appeared before Pension Committee of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners on October 26, 2016, and made a presentation about the benefits
paid and the revenue sources available to make those payments. Generally, since 2008, contributions
2

 have remained flat and benefits have increased, necessitating the liquidation of investment assets on
a quarterly basis in order to meet benefit payments. The additional revenue provided in 2016
pursuant to the Intergovernmental Agreement between the County Fund and the County, helped to
limit the need to liquidate investments in order to make the required benefit payments.
The Trustees complemented the Fund staff about the presentation and recommended that Board
members who had not done so already, to view the meeting and presentation online.
4. Review and Consideration of Inter-Governmental Agreement
Mary Pat Burns, Fund counsel, addressed the Board about the status of an Intergovernmental
Agreement (“IGA”) with the County for 2017 which would provide additional funding. Ms. Burns
said that the County Fund had received $178 million under the IGA in 2016 and that the balance of
$92.5 million was expected. She stated that the Fund had received a draft of a proposed IGA for
additional funding in 2017 from the County for the Board’s consideration. Ms. Burns stated that she
and the Fund staff believed that the Board should advocate for a multiyear IGA to provide for
additional revenue for the County Fund and should also propose other modifications to the County’s
proposal. Ms. Burns added that the IGA does not provide for additional revenue for the Forest Fund
and that a draft letter to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners had
been provided for the Board’s review.
The trustees discussed the proposed IGA, the need for additional funding and the appropriate
response to the County’s proposed IGA. Trustee White requested additional review of the Forest
Preserve District letter and requested the matter to be deferred to the next Board meeting.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Fitzgerald that the Board authorize the
Executive Director and Fund counsel to deliver the proposed modifications to the IGA, including the
request for a multiyear agreement, and to further authorize the Executive Director and Fund counsel
to negotiate the terms of an IGA with the County, subject to the Board’s final approval.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Fitzgerald, Herrera, Jatico, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White,
Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

5. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Kouruklis that the Special Board Meeting
be adjourned.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3

 