MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
SPECIAL MEETING NO. 2011-11-01
NOVEMBER 2, 2011
A special meeting of the Retirement Board of the Municipal Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit Fund was held in the Fund offices on November 2, 2011 regarding matters of
employment. The meeting was called to order at 8:30 a.m.
PRESENT:
Timothy Guest – President
Amer Ahmad – Vice President – via telephone
Stephanie Neely – Treasurer – via telephone
John Gibson – Recording Secretary
Martin J. Durkan - Trustee
Michael Walsh – Deputy City Treasurer (Proxy for the Treasurer)
Jeremy Fine – Assistant Comptroller (Proxy for the Vice President)
Mary Patricia Burns – Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Roll call attendance was taken. Trustee Guest, present; Trustee Durkan, present; Trustee
Gibson, present.
Trustee Durkan moved that:
•

The Board allow Trustees Neely and Ahmad to participate by telephone, pursuant
to §7(a) of the Open Meetings Act, due to their unavailability related to a health
issue and an employment matter, respectively. Trustee Gibson seconded the
motion and it carried.
DISCUSSION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CANDIDATES
CLOSED SESSION

Trustee Durkan moved that:
•

The Board go into closed session under the Open Meetings Act to discuss a
personnel matter pursuant to §2(c)(1) of the Act. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Gibson and it carried in a roll call vote:

 Trustee Guest
Trustee Durkan
Trustee Gibson
Trustee Ahmad
Trustee Neely

aye
aye
aye
aye
aye

The Board returned to open session.

OPEN SESSION
Upon returning to open session, Trustee Guest moved that the position of Executive
Director of the Fund be offered to James Mohler on such terms to be negotiated with the
Fund.
The motion was seconded by Trustee Durkan and it carried, with all those voting in the
affirmative.
James Mohler was invited into the meeting, was offered the position by the Board
President and accepted the position. Mr. Mohler thanked the Board for their support and
indicated that he knew there were significant challenges ahead for the Fund and he
looked forward to continuing the Fund’s good works for active and retiree members of
the Fund.
The Board discussed the preparation of a press release and letters notifying the other
candidates of the Board’s decision as to the Executive Director position.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Trustee Gibson moved that the
meeting adjourn. The motion was seconded by Trustee Durkan and it carried.

 