MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 25, 1997
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on February 25, 1997 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and Members
William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators Joseph C.
Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Deputy Legal Counsel Mac Ryder, other
members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m. Member Cudmore moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:00 p.m.
Member Vickrey called the open meeting to order. He stated that Chairman Johnson had to
leave on other business at 9:30 a.m. Mr. Vickrey stated that in the absence of the Chairman
the first order of business is to elect a chair for the meeting.
Member Browder moved that Member Vickrey be elected to chair the February 25, 1997
meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

1

 Board Minutes
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed
sessions of the January 28, 1997 regular meeting. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Due to Chairman Johnson’s absence no report was given.
Administrator's Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted Gross
Receipts, Underage Patrons, Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations, Credit Issuance and Internal
Control System changes.
Administrator Belletire reported: that a status on legislation and agency rules would be given
under the Board Policy Items later in the meeting but noted that SB 808, the Board’s
legislative initiative, was introduced during this legislative session; Mareile Cusack was
unable to be present at today’s meeting - Mac Ryder will act in her stead; Hollywood Casino
Corporation formulated a new corporate subsidiary - HWCC-Aurora Management, Inc. which
will become a general partner with Pratt Management, L.P.; and, the Administrator approved
an additional shareholder loan for HP, Incorporated.
Administrator Belletire also informed the Board that he was contacted by the National
Transportation Safety Board (“NTSB”) for information related to incidents or accidents
involving riverboat gambling vessels. This inquiry came from NTSB staff investigating the
recent New Orleans barge accident. Staff compiled the information and forwarded a
response to NTSB.
Owner Licensees Items
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES, INC. (“SIRCC”) - Mike Ficaro and
Patrick Madamba, representing SIRCC/Players International, Inc., requested initial
consideration for a renegotiation of a credit agreement due to the sale of Player’s Mesquite,
Nevada property.
Mike Ficaro, representing SIRCC, requested renewal of their owner’s license. Mr. Ficaro
introduced several members of the SIRCC/Player’s staff and outlined for the Board the
presentation to be made.
Mike Crider, General Manager and Vice President of SIRCC, discussed how SIRCC is
meeting tourism and economic development goals. Mr. Crider stated that SIRCC is actively
involved in various civic and tourism related organizations within the community. The
Metropolis area has seen a continued growth in hotel rooms, an increase from 150 to over
300 hotel rooms. Eighty additional rooms are scheduled to open in 1997. Various
businesses have opened since SIRCC came to Metropolis such as fast food chains and a
fitness center, and the future expansion of two local car dealerships is expected. Mr. Crider
stated that SIRCC is providing leadership within the community and will continue to do so.

2

 Jeff Pfieffer, Vice President of Marketing, discussed Player’s marketing strategy, the results
of that plan and how Players is turning revenues around. Mr. Pfieffer reported that 23
percent of customers are first time visitors and 80 percent come from outside the State of
Illinois. Mr. Pfieffer stated that Player’s marketing strategy is a total property concept built on
identifying and rewarding patrons and providing superior customer service.
Jeanne Moller, Construction Manager for Players, and Leslie LeBon, Architect and Project
Manager for Wimberly, Allison, Tong & Geo (“WATG”) architects, discussed the construction
plans for the SIRCC site in Metropolis. Ms. LeBon explained SIRCC’s plans to initiate a four
phase project to improve visibility, public access and patron service.
Administrator Belletire recommended renewal of SIRCC’s owner’s license, and commented
that SIRCC submitted a well developed application, and applauded continued efforts to
upgrade the SIRCC facilities. He also commented on the potential for Players International
and its major shareholders to help foster broader economic development for all of Southern
Illinois.
Howard Goldberg, President & CEO of Players and President of SIRCC, emphasized Players
continued efforts to bring in attractions to increase the tourism market.
Mr. Cudmore asked about SIRCC’s role in the planning conference hosted by SIRCC and
organized by the City of Metropolis and the Metropolis Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Crider
responded that SIRCC participated by providing information and data about SIRCC’s
customer base. Mr. Crider stated that the goal of the conference was to create a long range
plan for the Metropolis area and to identify what type of industry could be brought in to be
compatible and attract additional patronage. Mr. Cudmore asked that a copy of the city’s
report from the conference be submitted to the Board.
Member Pyatt commented that the Board would like to see SIRCC’s continued leadership in
the community and with the city officials.
In response to Member Cudmore asking for a time frame for completion of Phase I, Ms.
Moller indicated a four month time period.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Goldberg what Merv Griffin’s involvement is in the entertainment
vision of SIRCC’s long range economic plans. Mr. Goldberg indicated that Mr. Griffin is
active in the entertainment and marketing ideas.
Ms. Moller responded to Member Vickrey’s questions about existing and future sites for a
new vessel and land based construction. Mr. Vickrey also asked why SIRCC thinks the first
time visitors rate is 23 percent. Mr. Crider indicated this figure is reflected by SIRCC seeking
out new markets to replace the markets lost to competition in neighboring states. Mr. Pfieffer
stated that this figure is reflected by SIRCC’s bus business which has significantly increased
over the prior year.

3

 In response to Member Vickrey asking about the competition from Tunica, Mississippi, Mr.
Pfieffer stated that Tunica is a significant competitor.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. (“SIRCC”) for a period of one year commencing in
February, 1997. In renewing this Owner’s license the Board notes the following:
1.

The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and Board Rules are binding upon
SIRCC and its Key Persons and upon SIRCC’s owner, Player’s
International and its Key Persons;

2.

The Board expects SIRCC to initiate and complete all of the improvements
represented to the Board as commitments or potential future development
by the licensee, and, SIRCC shall present its financial proposal for all
improvements to the Board before the April, 1997 Board meeting;

3.

SIRCC shall cooperate with the Board in conducting an analysis and
survey of its patron base;

4.

Corporate officials and significant shareholders of Players International,
Inc. are encouraged to meet with the Administrator to discuss efforts to
help stimulate larger scale economic and tourism development; and,

5.

The Board commends SIRCC for its efforts to stimulate broader economic
development for Metropolis, Massac County and Southern Illinois.

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Mike Ficaro further requested approval of Patrick Madamba as a Level 1 occupational
licensee.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Patrick Madamba as a Key Person of
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING CORPORATION (“PGC”) - Donna More, representing PGC,
requested renewal of their owner’s license.
Donald Snyder, President of Boyd Gaming Corporation (“BGC”), gave a status report on the
various properties owned and operated by BGC.
Bob Boughner, Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer of BGC, gave an
overview of events since BGC’s acquisition of PGC in December, 1996. He also outlined
plans to broaden existing markets and expand into new tourism markets. Mr. Boughner

4

 reported that occupancy rates at the Par-A-Dice Hotel have increased from 41 percent (in
November, 1996) to 88 percent (in February, 1997).
Bill Boyd, Chairman and CEO of BGC, explained BGC’s strategic plan for the future. Mr.
Boyd stated that BGC will continue to be a growth oriented company and continue its focus
on the development of the PGC property. BGC plans to improve its financial picture by
strengthening the company’s balance sheet and increasing shareholder value. Mr. Boyd
concluded by updating the Board on the investigation of the sale of BGC’s minority interest in
the Treasure Chest Casino in Kenner, Louisiana. He stated that the investigation should be
completed in March.
Administrator Belletire recommended PGC’s owner’s license be renewed and commented
that BGC submitted a well developed application and commended BGC on the smooth
transition of ownership.
Member Vickrey asked if the competition from Indiana has had an impact on PGC. Mr.
Boughner responded that PGC has seen an impact on both admissions and gaming
revenues and is concentrating its marketing strategies to bring back patrons from Indiana
competitors.
Member Vickrey asked what plans BGC has to assist economic development in the East
Peoria area. Mr. Boughner stated that in addition to the hotel, PGC has 10,000 square feet
of meeting and banquet space which is utilized by local business and special functions that
PGC hosts.
Maunty Collins, General Manager of Boyd Gaming’s Central Region,
commented that a sports center and shopping area are being constructed in East Peoria.
Member Vickrey encouraged BGC to pursue supporting additional projects within the
community.
Member Browder moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of Par-A-Dice
Gaming Corporation for a period of one year commencing in February, 1997. In
renewing the Owner’s license, the Board notes the following:
1.

The Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and Board Rules are binding upon
Par-A-Dice and its Key Persons and upon Boyd Gaming Corporation and
its Key Persons;

2.

Boyd Gaming shall honor its existing commitment to end its management
agreement in Louisiana;

3.

Par-A-Dice shall cooperate with the Board in conducting an analysis and
survey of its patron base;

4.

The Board encourages Par-A-Dice to continue its efforts to draw its
patronage from a wide area; and

5

 5.

The Board asks that Par-A-Dice continue its successful efforts to rely
upon local and Illinois vendors.

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORTS (“ERR”) - Donna More, representing ERR, requested
approval of the proposed reorganization of certain of the trusts in RBG, L.P., one of the joint
venture partners in ERR.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve the transfer of the ownership interests
of the 11 PG Trusts in RBG Limited Partnership, the 50% partner in Elgin Riverboat
Resort, into a newly created Illinois General Partnership known as PG Investors.
In approving this transfer of ownership interest the Board directs that: (1) PG
Investors shall notify the Board of any proposed changes in the ownership,
distribution or management of the trusts having an ownership interest in PG
Investors; and, (2) Unless otherwise determined, no such change in the ownership,
distribution or management of the trusts may occur without prior Board approval.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Ms. More further requested approval of Sharon Peterson as the Internal Auditor of ERR.
Member Browder move that the Board approve Sharon Peterson as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Elgin Riverboat Resorts. Member Cudmore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA, INC. (“HCA”) - Richard Knight, representing HCA,
requested approval of the implementation of the game of Poker.
Member Cudmore moved:
WHEREAS, on January 23, 1996, the Board adopted a resolution establishing a
process for the approval of new games; and
WHEREAS, the Board has not approved Poker as an authorized game;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board approves Poker as an authorized
game and that Poker be added to the Administrator’s list of Board approved games;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board hereby delegates authority to the
Administrator to approve requests from each individual Owner licensee to offer the
game of Poker, or any variation thereof, on its premises. The Administrator’s approval
shall be subject to the following requirements:
6

 1.

Each Owner licensee shall obtain the approval of the Administrator prior
to offering any Poker game or variation thereof on its premises;

2.

Each Owner licensee shall establish an internal control system for Poker
and any variation thereof approved by the Administrator prior to
commencing play;

3.

Each Owner licensee shall include, in their internal control system, a
standard by which revenue is derived from the game either by percentage
or incremental assessment, subject to the approval of the Administrator
in consultation with the Members of the Board;

4.

Each Owner licensee shall develop and adopt a set of official Poker rules
to ensure that any and all events arising during the play of the game are
handled in a consistent and fair manner;

5.

Poker and any variation thereof shall be played in a segregated gaming
area to lessen the possibility of interference and collusion;

6.

Each Owner licensee shall clearly post, in the area where Poker is played,
the following warnings: (a) no shills, proposition players or house-staked
agents are permitted in the gaming area where Poker or any variation
thereof is being played; (b) Neither collusion among patrons nor team
play is permitted in Poker or any variation thereof; and (c) Any person
who engages in collusion or team play shall be subject to eviction,
prosecution or both;

7.

Owner licensees must provide continuous surveillance for each table and
gaming area where Poker or any variation thereof is played. Such
surveillance must be approved by Staff;

8.

Each Owner licensee offering Poker or any variation thereof must fully
cooperate with Staff in monitoring all activities and in reporting any and
all disputes and deviations from its Internal Control System; and

9.

Each Poker table shall comprise five gaming positions.

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND (“CRI”) - Ron Wicks, representing CRI, requested approval of the
transfer of certain shares of D. James Jumer to his children.

7

 Member Browder moved that the Board approve the transfer of a total of 6% of the
outstanding stock of the Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. to Sylvia M. Wicks, James F.
Jumer and John A. Jumer; and in so doing the Board also approves Sylvia M. Wicks,
James F. Jumer and John A. Jumer as Key Persons/Owners of Casino Rock Island.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Supplier Licensees Items
UNITED STATES PLAYING CARD COMPANY - William Johnston and Markus Leuker,
representing U.S. Playing Card Company, requested renewal of their supplier’s license.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve United States Playing Card Company’s
application for renewal of its Supplier’s license for a period of four years expiring
February, 2001. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
GDC, INC. - Cory Aronovitz, representing GDC, requested renewal of their supplier’s license.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve GDC’s application for renewal of its
Supplier’s license and issue a restricted license for a period of one year expiring
February, 1998. In issuing this restricted one year license to GDC, the Board requires
the following:
1.

GDC shall adhere to the requirements of the Act and Board rules
concerning the submission of timely quarterly reports;

2.

GDC shall adhere to the requirements of Board rules that all tokens
delivered to Illinois Owner licensees have been approved by the
Administrator of the Illinois Gaming Board and the Owner licensee prior
to the delivery of the tokens to the Owner licensee;

3.

GDC shall adhere to the requirements of Board rules to prevent the comingling of foreign tokens;

4.

GDC shall provide a written report to Staff detailing the measures GDC
has adopted or will adopt to improve the company’s controls over its
product and inventory and the general security of its manufacturing
facility.

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
PROGRESSIVE GAMES, INC. (“PGI”) - Lloyd Levenson, representing PGI, requested
renewal of their supplier’s license.

8

 Administrator Belletire stated that staff recommend renewal of PGI subject to a restricted
license. Various discrepancies and potential areas of concerns have developed as a result
of staff investigations. The Administrator stated that a continued investigation is warranted.
Specific concerns of staff are certain financial transactions of the company, its principal
owners, certain employees and other individuals.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Progressive Games, Inc.’s application for
renewal of its Supplier’s license and issue a restricted license for a period of one year
expiring February, 1998. I further move that the Board order the following:
1.

Progressive Games, Inc. shall assure that future quarterly sales reports
are filed on a timely, accurate and complete basis;

2.

Progressive Games shall submit to the Board on or before April 15, 1997
an updated and complete Personal Disclosure Form 1 for Donald Jones;

3.

Progressive Games shall submit to the Board on or before April 15, 1997
complete personal and financial information specified by the
Administrator for Dane Jones and Fred Kassner, including but not limited
to financial statements and personal background information;

4.

Progressive Games shall submit to the Board on or before April 15, 1997
complete Personal Disclosure Form 1’s for all current or former
employees of Progressive Games who have received company loans;

5.

Progressive Games shall not distribute, introduce or market any new
games, services, products or devices in Illinois, except as expressly and
individually approved by the Board;

6.

Progressive Games shall not sell or lease additional Caribbean Stud, 21
Superbucks or automatic shuffle devices in Illinois, beyond that already in
place in Illinois, except as expressly authorized by the Administrator;

7.

Progressive Games shall provide the Board with an annual outside audit
of the company and its finances for 1996 on or before April 15, 1997;

8.

Progressive Games shall provide such information as may be requested
by the Administrator regarding the financial and business affairs of
Caribbean Manufacturing Co. and any other related parties to Progressive
Games; and

9.

Progressive Games and its Key Persons and any other persons providing
financing to or receiving licensing or royalty payments from the company
shall cooperate fully with Board Staff.

9

 Pursuant to Section 5(c)(15) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, failure to comply with this
Board order shall be an independent basis for disciplinary action seeking sanctions
up to and including revocation of Progressive Games’ Supplier’s license.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board direct the Administrator to complete the special
investigation regarding Progressive Games’ compliance with the Riverboat Gambling
Act, the Board’s adopted rules and the orders of the Board. I further move that the
Board direct the Administrator, upon completion of the special investigation, to
recommend appropriate disciplinary action. Member Browder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Browder moved that the Board approve 49 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 91 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 3
applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 3 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Browder moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Donald
Bradley due to his failure to comply with Board Rule 3000.405. Member Pyatt seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Doris
Ballantine be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Ballantine’s unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Robin
Kowalkowski be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Kowalkowski’s unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Patricia
LaPage be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
LaPage’s unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.

10

 Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Kimberly
Stevens be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Stevens’ unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Stacie
Thomas be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Thomas’ unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Delores
Werges be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Werges’ unauthorized removal of United States currency from the Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
Kathy Spain, Legislative Liaison, gave a status report on various legislative proposals
introduced since January, 1997. Ms. Spain made special note of two bills. HB 117,
introduced by Representative Steve Davis, amends the Riverboat Gambling Act by
eliminating the admission tax and increasing the wagering tax from 20 percent to 25 percent.
Other changes are also made. SB 494, introduced by Representatives Dudycz and Jacobs,
authorizes the introduction of video gaming devices in bars, restaurants, fraternal order
establishments and racetracks. The Department of Revenue would be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of laws relating to video gaming terminals. Mr. Belletire
stated that of all the bills introduced during this session, SB 494 could have a negative effect
on the integrity of gaming. Mr. Belletire stated that the Board may wish to take a position on
this bill.
Member Browder moved that the Board oppose Senate Bill 494 and direct the
Administrator to inform the appropriate State officials of the Board’s opposition.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Vickrey commented on HB 117. He stated that if this provision passed, it would
eliminate funds that the cities use for economic development, and he opposes any such
provision.
Mac Ryder, Deputy Legal Counsel, gave a status report on proposed rulemaking. Mr. Ryder
noted that the Board undertook a significant rewrite of a major portion of the rules. The
Board published this rewrite in August, 1996 and received substantial public comment from
the industry. A series of changes were written to reflect the public comments. Mr. Ryder
indicated that staff is now ready to submit the second notice with these changes to JCAR.

11

 Member Browder moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to submit as a
second notice filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules, the proposed
Rules presented to the Board at this meeting.
I further move that the Administrator, upon written notification to all members of the
Board, may make editing or continuity changes in these proposed rules and may also
make adjustments to these proposed rules to reflect specific commentary and
concerns. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved that the
Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:17 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

12

 