STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 13, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post,
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 23, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the February 23, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from February 1 through March 31, 2010. He distributed the report
to the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-10-046
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Strizak's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ. After discussion, Member Hade
moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-027
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Willowbrook
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and recommended that the Board remand the case for hearing on
certain issues. After the Board discussed the matter, Member Coli moved to accept General Counsel
Post's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-RC-08-048
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the

 ALJ. Chairman Zimmerman, while generally agreeing with General Counsel Post's recommendation,
urged the inclusion of a footnote in the written decision regarding the petitioned-for employees'
authority to issue written reprimands. After the Board discussed the issues and considered Chairman
Zimmerman's proposal, Member Hade moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation with
Chairman Zimmerman's qualification. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-08-109
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 325/Village of Roscoe
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-07-095
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of Romeoville
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-UC-06-090
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-CA-07-035
Association of Professional Police Officers/City of Aurora
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this
date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of May, 2010.

2

 