STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 7, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of
the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Colleen M.
Harvey acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting. Member Hade chaired the meeting. Member
Hernandez moved that the Board hear oral argument as the next matter on the agenda. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
III.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-05-111
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority

Member Hade called the case. The parties to the matter presented oral argument, and the Board questioned
them at length. At the conclusion thereof, Member Hernandez moved that the Board hold this case until the
end of the agenda, to discuss in closed session pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) (2006). Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-RC-08-033 and S-RC-08-071
Libertyville Professional Fire Fighters Association, Local 3892, International Association of
Fire Fighters/Village of Libertyville
Member Hade called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Rios' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision
on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-UC-07-090
Laborers International Union of North America, Southern and Central Illinois Laborers'
District Council, Laborers' Local 773/County of Wayne/Sheriff of Wayne County
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-08-269
American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of Rock Island
Member Hade summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a deferral to arbitration
on August 27, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Harvey reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board reject the executive director's deferral and instead, issue a
complaint for hearing. After discussion of the case, Member Coli moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.

 IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Member Hade asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for the
period of time from September 1 through September 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Hade noted that there was no fiscal report and nothing to report regarding legislative matters.
Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session pursuant to
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to consider the evidence and testimony presented in the following matter:
Case No. S-CA-05-111
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority
Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Executive
Director Brosnan was present for the closed session. Subsequently, after having considered the evidence and
testimony presented, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Hernandez seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-CA-05-111
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Illinois State Toll
Highway Authority

Member Hade recalled the case. Member Hernandez moved that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hade called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of December, 2008.

2

 