MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
AUGUST 20, 1996
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on August 20, 1996
in the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F.
Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy
Administrators Joseph C. Haughey and Kevin Lockhart, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B.
Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Vickrey
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by
unanimous consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:45 p.m.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open
and closed sessions of the July 23, 1996 regular meeting and the July 29, 1996
special meeting. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

1

 The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire reported that Adjusted Gross Receipts ("AGR") for July
1996 totaled $90.9 million, down 2.6 percent from June 1996 and down approximately
15.6 percent from the July 1995 level. The Administrator stated that the longer term
impact of the Indiana operations is difficult to gauge. He further noted the effect of the
Indiana operations should be judged over the next several months.
The Administrator stated that twelve indictments were reported August 19, 1996,
by the Kane County State’s Attorney. An on-going investigation (since March 1996)
between the IGB and the Elgin Police Department lead to the indictments. The twelve
individuals will be prosecuted for theft. The Administrator further commented that the
owner licensee (Grand Victoria), after learning of the thefts, made substantial changes
to Internal Control procedures. Staff is confident that the circumstances that allowed
the thefts to occur have been properly remedied.
The Administrator next discussed the seminar on the economic impact of
riverboat gambling in Illinois. The seminar is scheduled for September 18, 1996,
beginning at 9:30 a.m. and ending mid-afternoon. The seminar will afford the authors
of various reports with a number of points of view to present their research. A panelists
of professionals will critique the proposals. A lay panel will also discuss this topic.
The Administrator announced that Lt. Roger Shiels will assume temporary duty
and supervise a reorganization of the Licensure and Investigation's Unit. M/Sgt. Scott
Deubel, currently head of the IGB contingent at the Grand Victoria, has agreed to
temporarily assume operations currently supervised by Lt. Shiels.
Chairman Johnson stated that the Board will meet September 18 and convene
the economic impact conference.
Chairman Johnson announced that the Governor has re-appointed Members
Browder and Cudmore. The re-appointments are for a full three year term effective July
1, 1996.
The next order of business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
Patrick Dennehy, representing the Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
(“DDLP”), d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino (“Harrah’s”), introduced several Harrah’s
employees and requested renewal of their owner’s license.
Administrator Belletire stated that staff have completed a review of the owner
licensee. Staff found Harrah’s to have an excellent compliance record and solid
financial status. Administrator Belletire commented on staff concerns over the existing
management services agreement between the licensee and Harrah’s Illinois
Corporation. He stated that efforts are underway to modify the financial terms of this

2

 relationship. An outside consultant hired by Harrah’s is evaluating remedies.
Administrator Belletire recommended re-licensure of DDLP.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Dennehy for a timeframe in which Harrah’s will be
finalizing the report with consultants evaluating the management services agreement.
Mr. Dennehy stated that the report should be completed by
October 1, 1996.
Member Pyatt commended Harrah’s on their accomplishments over the past
year. Ms. Pyatt asked what Harrah’s is doing to improve their record of buying goods
and services from Illinois vendors. Mr. Dennehy stated that efforts continue to identify
local minority and female businesses.
Member Cudmore complimented Harrah’s on their Economic Impact of Casino
Entertainment report done by the WEFA Group that was submitted to the Board for
review. He found the conclusions to be very favorable and to represent a fulfillment of
the legislative intent behind riverboat gambling.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino Cruises - Joliet
for a period of one year commencing in August of 1996. In renewing the Owner’s
license, the Board notes the following:
1. The Board commends Harrah’s for its exemplary involvement in the
economic renewal of Joliet’s downtown and for encouraging civic
involvement on the part of its employees, however, the Board
requests that Harrah’s make further efforts to increase it’s
procurement of goods and services with local Illinois businesses.
2. The Board requests that Harrah’s finalize a re-negotiated agreement
with the Harrah’s Illinois Corporation to specify more clearly the
services being provided and the fair market value of such services.
3. The Board requests the continued cooperation of Harrah’s in the
conducting and financing of an economic impact analysis of gaming.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Dennehy further requested approval of David R. Horn as a Key Person.

3

 Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve David R. Horn as a Key
Person of Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino
Cruises - Joliet. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
John Janicik, representing Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation, requested approval
of a special waiver under Board Rule 3000.510 to permit dockside gaming while
preventive maintenance is performed on the Par-A-Dice vessel’s two generator sets.
Administrator Belletire stated that it is the intention of staff to closely monitor the
maintenance work to ensure that the work plans submitted are followed.
Member Cudmore moved that pursuant to the Board resolution adopted at
the July 23, 1996 Board meeting, the Board approve Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation’s request for a waiver of Board Rule 3000.510 to allow Par-A-Dice to
conduct gaming while remaining dockside while preventive maintenance is being
performed on Par-A-Dice vessel’s two generator sets. In granting this waiver, the
Board has considered the following:
1. Par-A-Dice’s work plan and the time frame requested;
2. Evidence that the riverboat must remain dockside for the planned
maintenance to be completed;
3. Evidence of Par-A-Dice’s inability to postpone the repairs; and,
4. Par-A-Dice’s overall cruising record.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Andrew McDonough, representing the Alton Gaming Company and Mike Ficaro,
representing HP, Inc., asked the Board: (1) to waive the two meeting rule; and, (2)
under Board Rule 3000.260 allow Alton Gaming Company to lease HP, Inc. the Argosy
I for use in East Dubuque.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule in
connection with considering Alton Gaming Company’s request to lease a vessel
to HP, Inc. and to also consider HP, Inc.’s request for approval of a vessel,
approval of a re-negotiated bank loan agreement and approval of a shareholder
loan repayment. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

4

 Member Pyatt moved:
WHEREAS, Alton Gaming Company is the owner of the Argosy I riverboat; and,
WHEREAS, Alton and HP, Inc. wish to enter into an agreement pursuant to which
HP will lease the Argosy I riverboat from Alton; and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to Rule 3000.200(b)(5) a lessor of a riverboat is required to
hold a supplier’s license; and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to Rule 3000.260 the Board may waive a licensing
requirement if it determines that such a waiver is in the best interest of the public
and the gaming industry; and,
WHEREAS, the Board considers the waiver of Rule 3000.200(b)(5) to be in the
best interest of the public and the gaming industry.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board waives the licensing
requirement under Rule 3000.200(b)(5) to enable Alton and HP to enter into an
agreement wherein Alton will lease the Argosy I to HP under the terms specified
in the draft Charter and Equipment lease agreement which it had submitted.
I further move that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to
approve the Charter and Equipment lease agreement in its final form.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Michael Ficaro, outlined Board action requested by HP, Inc. Mr. Ficaro stated that
at the July 29, 1996 Board meeting, the Board approved the sale of the Silver Eagle
subject to: (1) the approval of a replacement vessel; and, (2) the replacement vessel
being operational prior to the disposition of the Silver Eagle. Mr. Ficaro requested that
the Board approve a series of items related to the lease of the Argosy I vessel and
related to certain financial transactions proposed by HP, Inc.
Member Vickrey moved:
WHEREAS, in July of 1996, the Board approved the sale of the Silver Eagle
vessel, provided (a) the Board approve a replacement vessel, and (b) the
replacement vessel is operational prior to the disposition of the Silver Eagle.

5

 NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that:
1. The Board approve the Argosy I as the replacement vessel for the Silver
Eagle; and,
2. The Board delegates to the Administrator the authority to approve, on the
Board’s behalf, all matters necessary for HP to conduct gaming on the
Argosy I vessel.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board authorize HP to dispose of the gaming
equipment aboard the Silver Eagle vessel provided the transportation, disposition
and sale of such equipment is in conformity with all applicable state and federal
laws.
Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the amended and restated
term loan agreement between HP, Inc. and Bank of America Illinois. This
approval is subject to the requirement that any prepayments of the loan under
this agreement in excess of $5 million require the prior approval of the Board.
Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board authorize HP, Inc. to pay up to $3
million to shareholders in repayment of certain shareholder loans. Member
Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Susan Gouinlock, representing Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc., requested
approval of Edward T. Pratt, III as a Key Person.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Edward T. Pratt, III as a Key
Person of Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. Member Vickrey seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Donna More, representing Elgin Riverboat Resorts, requested approval of Terri
P. Porcaro and Raul H. Rivera as Level 1 occupational licensees.
Member Pyatt move that the Board approve Terri P. Porcaro as a Level 1
occupational licensee of Elgin Riverboat Resort. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt move that the Board approve Raul H. Rivera as a Level 1
occupational licensee of Elgin Riverboat Resort. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

6

 The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensees.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve 180 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 273 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 2 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 6
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the Findings of Fact but, for the reasons set forth in the Board’s
Order, reject the Administrative Law Judge’s recommended sanction and revoke
Mr. McAntire’s occupational license (Level 2). Member Cudmore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by
Marcus Godfrey due to his failure to comply with Board Rule 3000.405. Member
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The next order of business concerned Complaints and Disciplinary Action.
Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against
Tammy Pinnell be issued and that her license be suspended for 90 days. The
complaint involves Ms. Pinnell’s involvement in an acquaintance’s attempt to
circumvent the Currency Transaction Reporting requirement. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board Policy Discussion Items.
Administrator Belletire recommended that the Board consider employee
requested waivers to the Board’s Code of Conduct that was adopted last December.
Under the Code, two IGB staff members requested a waiver that allows them to retain
their IGB positions even though their adult children are employed by owner licensees.
An investigation was conducted and staff found no appearance of conflict.

7

 Member Cudmore moved:
WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Code of Conduct (the “Code”) provides that
employees of the Board and their spouses, children or parents shall not be
employed by the holder of a license issued by the Board; and,
WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Code provides that an employee may seek a waiver
of this prohibition from the Board.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that IGB Agent Nick Porro is granted a
waiver from Section 5 of the Code to enable him to continue to be an employee of
the Board, assigned to Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet, while his daughter
Michelle Schelle is employed at Hollywood Casino Aurora.
In granting this waiver the Board considered that:
1. Agent Porro cooperated with the Board and immediately disclosed
his economic association upon the Board’s adoption of the Code;
2. Agent Porro’s daughter is an adult, well beyond the age of maturity;
she does not reside with her father and has not done so for several
years, and Agent Porro has little to no influence over her decisions;
3. Agent Porro’s daughter obtained employment with Hollywood Casino
Aurora almost two years before Agent Porro became an employee of
the Board;
4. The staff’s investigation revealed that Agent Porro had no
involvement in the decision by Hollywood Casino Aurora to employ
his daughter;
5. The Board is not aware of any situation or occurrence wherein a
conflict of interest had or could exist by virtue of the fact that Agent
Porro’s daughter is employed by Hollywood Casino Aurora; and,
6. The Board is not aware of any situation in which Agent Porro used,
attempted to use or will use his position as an employee of the IGB
to secure a privilege or advantage for his daughter in her capacity as
an employee of Hollywood Casino Aurora or as a holder of an
occupational license.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

8

 Member Vickrey moved:
WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Code of Conduct (the “Code”) provides that
employees of the Board and their spouses, children or parents shall not be
employed by the holder of a license issued by the Board; and,
WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Code provides that an employee may seek a waiver
of this prohibition from the Board.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that IGB Agent Dennis Wegener is granted a
waiver from Section 5 of the Code to enable him to continue to be an employee of
the Board, assigned to Empress Casino - Joliet, while his son Jeffrey Wegener is
employed as a security officer at Harrah’s Casino Cruises - Joliet.
In granting this waiver the Board considered that:
1. Agent Wegener has cooperated with the Board and immediately
disclosed his economic association upon the Board’s adoption of
the Code;
2. Agent Wegener’s son is an adult, well beyond the age of maturity;
and, he holds peace officer status in the State of Illinois;
3. Agent Wegener had no involvement in Harrah’s decision to employ
his son;
4. The Board is not aware of any situation or occurrence wherein a
conflict of interest had or could exist by virtue of the fact that Agent
Wegener’s son is employed at Harrah’s Casino - Joliet; and,
5. The Board is not aware of any situation in which Agent Wegener has
used, attempted to use or will use his position as an employee of the
IGB to secure a privilege or advantage for his son in his capacity as
an employee of the Harrah’s Casino - Joliet or as the holder of an
occupational license issued by the Board.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Vickrey
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at
1:28 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board
9

 