STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 10, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, 7th Floor, Chicago, Illinois and
One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel;
and staff members participated via video conference from Springfield. James Brennwald, Member of Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General
Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from Chicago.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 13, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the January 13, 2015 meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-14-058
Teamsters Automotive, Petroleum and Allied Trades Local Union 50/ County of Jefferson and Sheriff
of Jefferson County

General Counsel Post called the case, noted that Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Katherine C. Vanek issued a
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) with no exceptions filed and asked whether the Board wished to review
the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-CA-14-136
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/ County of Mercer and Sheriff of Mercer
County
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Sarah R. Kerley issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-14-150
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/ County of Mercer and Sheriff of Mercer
County
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Sarah R. Kerley issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-13-148
Troopers Lodge 41, Fraternal Order of Police/ State of Illinois, Department of Central Management
Services (State Police)
General Counsel Post called the case. He stated that on December 4, 2014, an Executive Director dismissal issued.
The dismissal noted the case had previously been deferred to arbitration, and that Charging Party had not asked to

 reopen the case. He then discussed Charging Party’s appeal and Respondent’s response. After his discussion General
Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to
affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CB-14-008
City of Springfield/ Policemen’s Benevolent Protection Association, Unit No. 5
General Counsel Post called the case. He then asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present the
issues of the case. She stated that on November 26, 2014 the Executive Director dismissed a charge filed by the
Charging Party against the Respondent alleging violation of Section 10(b) of the Act. She then discussed the appeal
that was filed by the Charging Party and the response that was filed by the Respondent. After her presentation, she
recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to affirm the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of March, 2015.

2

 