MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
November 3, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, November 3, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 2nd floor at 100 West Randolph at the James R. Thompson Building,
Chicago, Illinois immediately following. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy,
Members Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas
Dunn.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of October 7, 2016. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS:
The Chairman thanked Member Dunn for Chairing the October meeting in the Chairman's
absence. Mr. Tracy went on to comment on several litigation issues facing the Board.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS:
The Administrator stated that there are 5,715 operating locations with 24,615 operating VGTs.
Proposed Amendment to Video Gaming Rule 220
Member Alejandre moved to amend Video Gaming Rule 220 by authorizing staff to submit a
proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the
Administrator. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS:
License Renewals
Member Dunn moved that Board renew the Terminal Operator License of:




Angelle & Green Gaming, LLC
Barcade Gaming, LLC, and
Dearborn Gaming, LLC

 for a term of one year, expiring in November 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved the Board approve 41 Terminal Handler licenses and 1 Technician
license, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to:
1. Christopher Jerome Graves
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved to approve the renewal of the Technicians and Terminal Handlers
previously licensed or renewed in November 2015, who properly updated their applications,
timely paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the
Act and the Board's Rules. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Video Gaming Location Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 57 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, valid for a
period of one year, expiring in November 2017, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:
o Monessa Corporation d/b/a Mango Restaurant
o Smith Beverages, Inc. d/b/a City Limits
o Voula Inc. d/b/a Big Skillet Restaurant
o Nardos Barbecue Restaurant Bar and Grill, Inc. d/b/a Nardos
Barbecue Restaurant Bar and Grill
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal and Non-Renewal of Locations (second motion)
Member Robinson moved to approve the renewal of the Retail Establishments, Truck Stops,
Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or renewed in November 2015, that
have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained
compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules, and I further move to
authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Non-renewal to:
1.
Los Charros, Inc. d/b/a Los Charros
2.
Los Charros of Aledo, Inc. d/b/a Los Charros of Aledo

2

 3.

Los Charros of Carthage, Inc. d/b/a Los Charros of Carthage,
Inc.

4.
5.

Schmoe's Inc. d/b/a Schmoe's Inc.
Danny Carney, Inc. d/b/a Joker's Bar & Grill

Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Dunn moved to deny the requests for hearing submitted by K C 2120 Club; Johnny's
Chophouse of Antioch, Inc.; Rocky Bar Inc.; and Danvers Y, Inc. d/b/a Lawndale Tap as
the requests do not establish a prima facie case for a hearing, and/or otherwise fail to comply
with Rule 615. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind the denials from the October 7, 2016 open
meeting, and grant Mr. Marlin Palmer a Terminal Handler license and a Technician license for
a period of one year, expiring in November 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the request by Russell Oil Co. d/b/a Roc #8 to
reapply for an establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that the Board grant the request by Iron-Spike Brewing Company, LLC
d/b/a Iron Spike Brew Pub to reapply for an establishment license. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the request by Greater Rockford Airport
Authority d/b/a Chicago Rockford International Airport to reapply for an establishment
license. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Failure to Properly Monitor VGTs
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Road Ranger, L.L.C. d/b/a Road Ranger (License number 121004155) for failing to
monitor the video gaming terminals at its location, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless a $5,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed

3

 within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Failure to Prevent Underage Access to VGTs
Member Dunn moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment license of
Giles & Giles, Inc. d/b/a Diamond Dave's Restaurant and Digger's College City Bowl, Inc.
d/b/a Digger's College City Bowl for permitting underage gambling, said actions to take effect
21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a $5,000 fine is paid or an Answer is
properly filed by each location within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Unauthorized Access to VGTs
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining Terminal Handler, Johnny Ray
Cox II $500, and fining Terminal Operator AP Gaming $1,000, for improperly accessing a
video gaming terminal, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer if properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Improper VGT Play & False Statements to Board Agents
Member Dunn moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of
Lisa S. Cummings d/b/a Charlie & Lisa's Tavern for violating the Board's rule prohibiting
VGT play by owners, managers and PSIC's, and for attempting to deceive the Board, said action
to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer if properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Maintain Valid Liquor License
Member Robinson moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
licenses of:
 Janssen Business Group, Inc. d/b/a DeeCor's Pub;
 Abstract American Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a Abstract American Bar & Grill;
 Dennis Strader d/b/a Champ's
 Elite Café & Billiards, Inc. d/b/a Elite Billiards
 27 Irving Park, LLC d/b/a Horseshoe Inn, and
 Chickasaw, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro
for failing to maintain valid liquor licenses, and/or operating video gaming terminals without a
valid license, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment licenses
of
 Aly Anne's LLC d/b/a Aly Anne's LLC
 Gorda, Inc. d/b/a Linda's Family Restaurant
 Hoopers Sports Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a Hooper's Sports Bar & Grill
 Marthaler Holdings LLC d/b/a Three Star Liquors & Tavern
 Shmegals Incorporated d/b/a Patti's Café
 Platinum Player Café LLC d/b/a Platinum Player Café, and
 Wasabi Japanese Kitchen LLC d/b/a Diamond's Sushi & Food
for operating Video Gaming Terminals on expired liquor licenses, said action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless the locations each pay a fine equal to the
amount of the Net Terminal Income derived at the location during the time period it operated the
VGT's without a valid liquor license, or properly file Answers within that timeframe. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Illegal Gaming Activities
Member Robinson moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
license of:




Rantoul Club, Inc. d/b/a Rantoul Club, Inc.
Berwyn Eagles Aerie 2125 FOE, d/b/a Berwyn Eagles; and
S.M. & S.F. Club d/b/a SM & SF Club

for allowing unlawful gambling on the premises, said action to take effect 21 days from the date
of service of the Complaint, unless each location properly files an Answer within that timeframe
or pays a fine of $5,000. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Failure to Disclose Arrests and Maintain Minimum Qualifications
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Terminal Handler
license of Michael McCorkle, for failing to disclose his recent arrests and convictions, and for
failing to maintain minimum qualifications for licensure, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:43 A.M. Member Robinson motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 