MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
September 20, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, September 19, 2011 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday, September 19, 2011 at approximately 10:00 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler and Joseph Moore.
At 10:10 A.M. on Monday, September 19, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation, and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. At 11:27 A.M. Member Winkler moved to recess until Tuesday, September 20, 2011.
On Tuesday, September 20, 2011 the meeting reconvened at 11:47 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and
Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:00 P.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 1:02 P.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe, Members
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 9, 2011. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
The Administrator stated that to date the Board has licensed 20 manufacturers and suppliers,
approximately 20 more are under review. The Board has approximately 95 terminal operator
applications which are now under review. We have approximately 1200 investigations pending
for riverboat and video.
Mark commented on the location applications; the IGB is trying to further develop an on-line
process for applying for the location applications.
LICENSEE ITEMS●

Items for Consideration –

●

VGT Manufacturing, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that the Board approve VGT Manufacturing, Inc. for a
Manufacturer’s License effective September 20, 2011 for a period of one (1)
year, expiring in September, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

VGT Distribution, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve VGT Distribution, Inc. for a Distributor’s
License, effective September 20, 2011 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in
September, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Shelia C. Hill Morgan – President and CEO, Chicago Minority Supplier Development
Council
Good Afternoon.
My name is Shelia Hill Morgan. I am the President and CEO of the Chicago Minority Supplier
Development Council (ChicagoMSDC), a 44 year old “minority business thought leader and
business advocate” and the founding council of the National Minority Supplier Development
Council (NMSDC).
The Chicago Minority Supplier Development Council is committed to the growth and
development of the minority business community and its mission is to connect minority
businesses to both private and public major buying organizations, corporations, cities, states and
the government for the purposes of commerce.

2

 ChicagoMSDC represents over 1300 certified minority businesses. Those minority businesses
employ more than 90,000 people and as you can imagine, those businesses and employees have a
tremendous impact on this city and your casinos.
The council is a membership organization, the members are corporations like your casinos and
some of your casinos are members. Some are not. The work and engagement “Starts Here” with
the ChicagoMSDC.
So far so good right? Well, I am aware of your detailed reports as they relate to the running of
your business. Casinos track and report, in great detail, every operation, including every game,
every slot, room gaming activity, dealer activity, pit boss activity, players etc. every type of
participation including the food and beverage industry and the purchase of premiums.
You track, report and record all of the results, the profit and losses. You recognize the
importance of tracking the performance of every casino operation!
I am here today on behalf of those 1300 minority businesses and those 90,000 employees. I am
asking you to expand your tracking and reporting processes to include M/WBE participation. I
am asking you to expand the metric and include minority and women owned businesses in the
process.
As you have already identified tracking is critical to success. If it is not tracked you cannot
really know how you are performing. If it is not tracked it is difficult to hold accountable the
accountable. If it is not measured it is not important and often times overlooked or simply not
done!
I am certain each of your directors understands and recognizes the impact diverse people have on
the casino business. Minority and Women businesses need to have access to contracting
opportunities as well.
You must measure and monitor the process and you must require and track the performance of
your contractors. You must require inclusion and track the success or failure.
Minorities are your customers, minority business owners should be your contractors and
minority businesses could be your advocates!
Tracking, monitoring, holding accountable and requiring all to be inclusive is good for your
business and good for the diverse business community.
The council is willing and able to support your initiatives and we look forward to working with
you as you develop robust metrics to hold all accountable.
Thanks for the opportunity to speak to you today.
Member Winkler stated that the IGB is currently trying to track W/BE and M/BE in the
riverboats, and also would like to have tracking in video gaming.

3

 Ms. Hill stated that by the time opportunities arise for minority owned businesses; they seem to
disappear quickly. Ms. Hill is encouraging video gaming contracts to include language stating
that minority owned businesses must be included.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the present Board has done more for the diversification of contracts to
the casinos than any other Board.
Member Moore stated that the casinos participate in diversity supplier fairs.
Member Winkler stated that the W/BE and the M/BE was included in the construction of Rivers
Casino. Staff member Stevens stated that the percentages exceeded 20%.

●

IGT – Motion Clarification
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board amend its prior motion of August 9, 2011 and approve
IGT, rather than International Game Technology, for Manufacturer and
Distributor Licenses effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,
expiring in August, 2012. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 1:24 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Moore seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 