STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 11, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Lake Level C Room,
Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 16, 2013

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the May 16, 2013 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from May 1 through 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

LEGISLATIVE AND FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report, reviewing in
detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned various
aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-12-107
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Sleepy Hollow

Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Bell’s
recommended decision and order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own
motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-RC-13-017
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/ Village of Franklin Park (Department of Utilities)
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post noted that on April 12, 2013,
ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO. General Counsel Post then asked Counsel Stevens to present the case. Counsel
Stevens stated that Petitioner filed a majority interest petition seeking to represent a bargaining unit that includes all
full-time and part-time employees of the utilities department employed by the Employer. Counsel Stevens then
reviewed and discussed the issues presented in the Employer’s exceptions and the Petitioner’s responses. After
discussion, Counsel Stevens recommended that the Board accept the RDO. After discussion, Member Brennwald
moved to accept the ALJ’s recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-13-001
Joseph S. McGreal/ Village of Orland Park
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on April
30, 2013, the Executive Director dismissed the charge filed by the Charging Party, alleging that the Employer
violated Section 10(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then presented
and discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and the Respondent’s response. After discussion, General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. Member Washington made a motion to affirm the dismissal.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CB-13-003
Joseph S. McGreal/ Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter #159
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on April
30, 2013, the Executive Director dismissed the charge filed by the Charging Party, alleging that the Respondent
violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then presented and
discussed the Charging Party’s appeal, then made a recommendation to accept the dismissal. After discussion,
Member Besson made a motion to accept the dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case Nos. S-CA-13-052 and S-CA-13-068
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ Peoria Housing
Authority
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on April
19, 2013, the Executive Director issued a dismissal of the two charges. General Counsel Post then presented and
discussed Charging Party’s appeal to the first charge (S-CA-13-052), stating that Charging Party did not appeal the
dismissal of the second charge, alleging violations of Section 10(a)(7) and (1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations
Act. After his presentation, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board remand the dismissal in the contested
case for further investigation. After discussion, Member Besson made a motion to remand the dismissal for further
investigation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

6.

Case No. S-CB-13-037

Karla Knox/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on April
29, 2013, the Executive Director issued a dismissal of an unfair labor practice charge filed by Charging Party
alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. After his presentation of
Charging Party’s appeal, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After discussion,
Member Brennwald moved to accept the dismissal. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

7.

Case No. S-UC-12-034

Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ Secretary of State
General Counsel Post presented and discussed the Appellate Court Order that issued on May 7, 2013 vacating the
prior decision and order, revoking the certification of representative, and remanding for further proceedings. He
recommended that the Board issue a board decision consistent with this Order. After discussion, Member Besson
made a motion to accept General Counsel Post’s recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2

 VII.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of July, 2013.

3

 