MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 16, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, October 16 and Tuesday, October 17, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois
Gaming Board (“Board”) was held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the
3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Joseph
Moore, James Sullivan and Eugene Winkler.
At 9:30 A.M. on Monday, October 16, 2006 Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:30 p.m. and recessed to
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 at 11:00 a.m. On Tuesday, October 17, 2006 at 11:20 a.m., the
Board recommenced to Closed Session. The Board convened its Open session at 1:10 P.M.
pursuant to motion.
Roll call was taken with five members present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed and open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of September 11 and 12, 2006. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT AND COMMENTS
The Chairman stated that Commander Luis Tigera, Deputy Administrator/Enforcement will
present awards to Lt. Mark Stevens, Sgt. Gary Lawson and retired Revenue Special Agent, Mark
Anderson for their part in the investigation and apprehension of suspects in the Harrah’s voucher
fraud scheme.

 BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS
Member Moore commented on his attendance at the Hollywood Casino Aurora Supplier
Diversity fair. Member Moore stated that Hollywood did a good job and also had a good group
present. Member Winkler stated that he also attended the fair and was quite impressed. He also
added that he was dismayed with Alton in reference to their charitable contribution effort; and
Winkler went on to state that the Grand Victoria Casino is a model to all in their social
investment strategy. Member Gardner stated that he agreed with Member Winkler. Member
Gardner also stated that he visited Metropolis and the Alton Belle, and enjoyed his visit. He
also added that he was impressed with Metropolis’ new hotel facility. He stated that it was a
“downtown Chicago standard in a rural area”. Member Gardner also suggested that Alton think
about placing surveillance cameras in their parking lot.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT
Mark Ostrowski stated that there would be a General Manager’s meeting on November 21, 2006.
The Administrator also announced that the November 2006 meeting will take place on
November 20, 2006 due to the G2E conference. Administrator Ostrowski also stated that he
visited Alton and the visit went very well.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

NRT Technology Corporation – Request for Initial License

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board approve the Supplier’s license of NRT Technology Corporation for a term of
one-year, expiring in October 2007, to provide Quick Jack™ Plus cash dispensing
kiosks to Illinois casinos.
Member Moore further moved that the Board certify and approve the following entity,
position and key person of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Dominent Corporation;
Dominelli Family Trust;
John Dominelli;
CEO/President.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role
call.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 53 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 163 applications for an

2

 Occupational License, Level 3. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
a)

Items for Initial Consideration – no motion
●

MGM – Request for approval of Fifth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement

Paul Jensen was present to answer any questions that the Board Members and staff had.
b)

Item for Information – no motion
●

Casino Queen – Construction Project Update

General Manager Tom Monaghan was present to answer any questions.
Ray Kramp of Clayco Construction Co., the entity responsible for the new Casino Queen facility
did a power point presentation to give the Board and staff an idea of what the construction
involves and Todd Weaver of Legacy Construction Co. was also present to talk with the Board
about the diversity employment available to the construction project.
●

Casino Rock Island – New Casino Financing Update –

Donna More and Gary Beuttner were present and thanked the Board and staff for all their
patience with the financing project. Member Winkler stated the obstacles that are present are not
the Board or staff’s doing. The Chairman went on to commend the staff for working along with
Casino Rock Island.
Member Gardner moved that the meeting be adjourned at 1:50 and was seconded by Member
Sullivan. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 