MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JUNE 20, 1995
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on June 20, 1995 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, and Robert F. Vickrey. Member J. William
Roberts was not present.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey and Thomas Swoik, William O'Connor Legal Counsel to the Board,
other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. and the Board
immediately adjourned to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 9:32 a.m.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:42 p.m. Four of the
five members of the Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
The Board announced the cancellation of the regularly scheduled meeting of
August 15, 1995.
Member Pyatt moved that the minutes from the open and closed sessions of the
Regular Meetings of April 25, 1995 and May 16, 1995 be approved. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire indicated that May was a record month for the riverboats.
The Adjusted Gross Revenues exceeded $100 million for the collective licensees, and the
admissions for the month of May reached a record high totalling 2,186,000. Mr. Belletire
stated that the number and frequency of identification checks for underage patrons

1

 increased significantly in May, compared to the month of April. He noted a doubling the
number of people who were turned away for lack of proper identification. He stated that
there were no dramatic changes on the credit side from April to May. Mr. Belletire stated
that SB1270 (compulsive gambling legislation) was passed by the General Assembly and
is currently awaiting action by the Governor.
Deputy Administrator Haughey discussed his preliminary review of the owner
licensees security systems as they relate to the detection of underage persons on the
riverboats. A questionnaire divided into three categories was sent to all owner licensees.
The first series of questions dealt with the staffing of the security departments. The
second series dealt with the actual procedures that licensees employ in determining and
identifying underage persons. The third series of questions had to do with responsibilities
of other employees i.e., non-security personnel in detecting underage patrons.
Commander Haughey will compile a final written report for Board scrutiny.
Administrator Belletire continued with his report by informing the Board that the IGB
had expanded its Chicago office space to occupy the entire third floor of the State of
Illinois Building. He further stated that with Administrator approval, Players has begun
improvements on the land based section of their property, specifically undertaking the
construction of a parking lot and also the development of a two story structure to house
administrative staff. The cost of improvements are approximately $650,000. Hollywood
Casino Aurora also has the Administrator's approval to be closed for a three day period to
undertake infrastructure repairs. They are also approved to transfer some electronic
gaming devices from the City of Lights II to the City of Lights I.
The next order of business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
Kevin Larson, representing the Empress River Casino, appeared and requested
approval of their renewal license. Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Larson to discuss what
they are doing reference the compulsive gaming issue. Mr. Larson stated that they have
conferred with St. Joseph's Medical Center in Joliet who are investigating implementation
of an assistance center in the area. Member Pyatt asked if the problem of compulsive
gambling is something the ownership would contribute to if something was proposed along
that line. Mr. Larson agreed.
Member Vickrey moved for the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED:
The Board renew the Owner's License of the Empress River Casino Corporation for
a period of one year commencing in July of 1995. In renewing the Owner's
License, the Board notes the following:
(1)

The Empress River Casino Corporation and its management should
undertake additional measures and commitments to the promotion of
economic development within the greater Will County area.
As an

2

 established and profitable economic force of some consequence, Empress
and its management should assume a leadership role in economic
development beyond its immediate location.
(2)

Empress has exhibited cooperation with the Board in identifying internal
control difficulties and in sanctioning its employees for violations. Employee
training conducted by Empress should place increased emphasis upon the
importance of employee integrity.

(3)

The Board requests the cooperation of Empress in the conducting and
financing of an economic impact analysis of gaming.

Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Lois Mayer, Mokena, IL, in her capacity as a former Will County Board Member
stated that she supported endorsing two riverboat gambling sites in Joliet in 1990. She
stated she would like to see more equitable distribution of the local governmental revenue
from these riverboats to surrounding areas of Joliet within Will County. In an effort to
maintain an acceptable perception she urged the Board to take the lead in the State of
Illinois in campaign reform and establish strict restriction of campaign contributions to all
political organizations and candidates.
Chairman Johnson asked if there is communication between the governments of
Will County to address some of these issues. Ms. Mayer indicated that there has been an
attempt to work with the City of Joliet but that has not been successful. Chairman
Johnson indicated that many of the issues brought up are legislative rather than regulatory
in nature. He suggested that she continue to pursue her concerns with those appropriate
bodies as well.
Joseph Duellman, representing H.P., Inc. appeared and requested approval of their
license renewal.
Reverend Tom Grey, Galena, IL spoke on behalf of Sara Fischer, citizen of Galena,
to re-emphasize her environmental concerns for the area in which the Silver Eagle
operates.
Sandra Beyer, Elizabeth, IL spoke as an individual against the renewal of H.P., Inc.
She feels that H.P., Inc. is not the good neighbor they continually claim to be and that they
have a history of shading the truth that borders on deception, that they are a negative
social impact and is also concerned with the negative environmental impact that, in her
opinion should have been better addressed.
Judy Gratton, Chairperson of the Jo Daviess County Board spoke in support of the
renewal of H.P., Inc.'s license. She also commented on what she felt were difficulties in
communicating with IGB staff.

3

 Bill McFadden, former Board Chairman of the Jo Daviess County Board and current
Chairman of the County Development Board spoke in support of the renewal of H.P.,
Inc.'s. license.
Mrs. Johnson, Chair of the Social and Environmental Committee for the County
Board spoke in support of the renewal of H.P., Inc.'s license.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Duellman to expand on any discussion he had with
the County Board regarding compulsive gambling and the Silver Eagle's responsibilities.
Mr. Duellman stated they will make a contribution to an appropriate social service agency
resource located in Jo Daviess County when one is established.
Member Pyatt moved for the adoption of the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED:
The Board renew the Owner's License of the HP, Inc. for a period of one year
commencing in July of 1995. In renewing the Owner's License, the Board notes the
following items of concern:
(1)

Prudent financial management will be required in the year ahead. The
licensee is to work closely with the Board's Administrator in identifying all
measures that can be taken to improve the financial viability of the Silver
Eagle.

(2)

Turnover in personnel can contribute to minor operating and internal control
difficulties.
The licensee is encouraged to work closely with the
Administrator to ensure that key positions remain filled and that employee
training receives ongoing attention.

(3)

Concerns between the licensee and the U.S. Department of Fish and
Wildlife appear to have been resolved. The Board desires the licensee to
adhere to commitments established between these parties.

Additionally, the Board notes for the licensee the following:
(1)

The Board currently has under study all management services contracts that
are based upon a percentage of gross revenues. HP, Inc., which has such a
contract, is advised that the Board may, in the near future, place new
limitations on such contracts.

(2)

The Board requests the cooperation of HP, Inc. in the development of
studies and analyses relating to the economic impact of gaming.

4

 Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
George W. Loveland, Associate General Counsel for The Promus Companies, Inc.,
appeared and requested approval of the transfer of shares in Harrah's Illinois Corporation
from Harrah's Club to what will become Harrah's Operating Company, Inc.. He further
asked for approval of several Board Members of The Promus Companies Incorporated.
Chairman Johnson asked for clarification regarding aspects of the way in which certain
shared services between Harrah's Entertainment and the new Promus Hotel Company
were priced. Clarification was provided.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Des Plaines Development
Corporation's request to transfer Harrah's Club's ownership interest in Harrah's Illinois
Corporation to Harrah's Operating Company. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve James Barksdale, James Farley,
Joseph Henson, Walter Salmon, Edward Williams and Shirley Young as members of the
Board of Directors of The Promus Companies Incorporated and its successor company,
Harrah's Entertainment Incorporated. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Michael Ficaro, appeared on behalf of Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino and
requested approval of a Member of the Board of Directors.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Thomas Gallagher as a member
of the Board of Directors of Players International, Incorporated. Member Vickrey
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
A representative of Argosy Gaming requested approval for a member of the Board
of Director's of Argosy Gaming Company.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve George Bristol as a member of the
Board of Directors of Argosy Gaming Company. Member Vickrey seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was Proposals for Initial Consideration.
Kevin Larson, President of Empress River Casino, asked for initial consideration of
the construction of a 102 room hotel facility to be located across the parking lot from the
riverboat. The project would be financed solely through corporate cash flow, with an
estimated cost of approximately $5 million. Mr. Larson also requested renewal of an
unsecured line of credit in the amount of $1 million from the First National Bank of
Lockport.

5

 Susie Saxman of D'Ancona and Pflaum, representing the Empress River Casino
Stockholders, asked the Board to consider the transfer of approximately 6 1/2% of the
stock from some of the existing stockholders to the remaining stockholders.
John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, Inc., requested initial consideration of an
increase in their Line of Credit with Harris Bank from $1.2 million to $5 million.
Ty Fahner, Counsel, Bob Kingsley, Chief Operating Officer of National Gaming
Corporation ("NGC") and Jim Buckman from Hospitality Franchise Systems ("HFS")
appeared to answer any questions by the Board and assist in the flow of information
regarding the transfer of ownership of the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation to NGC.
The next order of business concerned Supplier's Licensure Items.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Universal Distributing of Nevada's
application for renewal of its Supplier's License. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Aristocrat, Incorporated's
application for a Supplier's License. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensure.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendation and deny
George Lewis' application for an Occupational License, Level 1.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendation and approve
the applications for an Occupational License, Level 1, submitted by Douglas Hoppe and
Patrick Rogers.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and approve
148 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 396 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3 and deny 6 applications for an Occupational License, Level
2, and 3 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion for these approvals and
denials was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and deny the application for an occupational license for Marian
Lampkin. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.

6

 Member Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and uphold the exclusion of and deny the application for an
occupational license for David Leek. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and deny the application for an occupational license for Troy
Roberts. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board deny the requests for hearing submitted by
the following individuals in that these requests failed to comply with Board Rule 3000.405.
Richard Capcik
James O'Neal
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board grant to Kendricks Howliet leave to reapply
for an occupational license within one year of today's date. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board grant leave to Lawrence Ewert to withdraw
his request for a hearing. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board policy Items.
Administrator Belletire indicated to the Board that the Attorney General requested
the release of various documents concerning the owner application of Mississippi Gold in
conjunction with a legal dispute.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the Attorney General's request for
documents regarding the Mississippi Gold owner's application. Member Pyatt seconded
the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board stood adjourned at 2:25 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

7

 Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

