MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JANUARY 18, 1994
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on January 18,
1994. The meeting was held in Room 500-C of the State of Illinois Building, 160
North La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Regular Meeting was called
pursuant to previous Board action and notice was duly and timely given to each
Board Member and the public in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, J. William Roberts and Robert F.
Vickrey. Additionally, Interim Administrator Joseph F. Mc Quaid and Chief Legal
Counsel Donna B. More; the media and general public were in attendance.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Johnson at 10:07 A.M.
The first order of business concerned recognition of former chairman
William J. Kunkle, Jr. Chairman Johnson presented Mr. Kunkle with a gift
recognizing Mr. Kunkle's service to the Board from 1990 to 1993.
The next order of business was the approval of the minutes of December 2,
1993. After technical corrections were offered, Mr. Roberts moved that the
minutes be approved as corrected. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
recognized Interim Administrator Mc Quaid.

The Chairman

Mr. Mc Quaid discussed Cruise Disruption Reports submitted to the Board.
He told the Board that a recommendation concerning Casino Queen would be brought
to the Board at the February, 1994 meeting. Mr. Mc Quaid next reported on the
Underage Patron Report and noted that because of the late implementation of the
reporting form, some information had been estimated by owner licensees. Mr. Mc
Quaid stated that better reporting would be available in February. Mr. Mc Quaid
also informed the members that the Southern Star, the second vessel of Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership had commenced operations on January 12,
1994 after having received a Temporary Certificate of Inspection from the U.S.
Coast Guard.
The next order of business concerned an update from Elgin Riverboat
Resorts.
Mr. Dan Azark appeared on behalf of the applicant. He told the Board that
construction on their vessel had begun and updated other preliminary
construction and improvement projects. Mr. Azark stated that approval of
permits from the Army Corps of Engineers was expected and that operations were
expected to commence in October, 1994.
The next order of business were issues concerning Owner Licensees.
Chairman first recognized Alton Gaming Company.

The

 Mr. J. Thomas Long, Chief Executive Officer, appeared on behalf of the
licensee. He requested the Board approve an inter-company transfer of assets
concerning the transfer of the Alton Belle from the Alton Gaming Company to the
Missouri Gaming Company, both subsidiaries of Argosy Gaming Company.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board grant leave for the inter-company
transfer of the Alton Belle from Alton Gaming Company to Missouri Gaming
Company. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.
The Chairman noted that board procedure required postponed consideration
of the motion.
Mr. Roberts moved that board procedure be suspended for the immediate
consideration of the motion to grant leave. Mr. Browder seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nay.
The motion to suspend was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman called the previous question and asked for the yeas and nays.
The motion to grant leave was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Long next asked for favorable consideration for approval of new games;
Caribbean Stud Poker and 21 Super Box. The request was deferred to the
February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.
Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. Mr. Moore
first informed the Board of changes made to the corporation's Board of Directors
noting that owner Jacob Barnes had passed away during the week of January 10,
1994. It was noted that Par-a-Dice would not fill the vacant Board of Directors
position until the annual meeting to be held in August, 1994. He further noted
that owner Arnold Milan was requesting approval to sell his 2.08% ownership to
Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation. Mr. Moore stated that the share purchase was in
the form of treasury stock which was then canceled and converted to equity
assets. Approval of the purchase of stock from Arnold Milan was deferred to the
February, 1994 regular meeting.
Mr. Moore next told the Board that a new replacement vessel was under
construction and delivery was anticipated in May, 1994. He also asked the Board
approve the sale of Par-a-dice to Argosy Gaming Company. Mr. Moore acknowledged
that Par-a-dice Gaming Company was not a licensed supplier of gaming equipment
or supplies. The requests were deferred to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman instructed staff to research the question of whether the
holder of an owner's license was authorized to sell gaming equipment to another
entity without a supplier's license and what actions were required to effect the
request of Par-a-dice Gaming Company. He instructed staff to report their
findings at the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture, (JDRV).
Mr. David Filkin, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
requested approval of a suppliers license for Leonard M. Ring to supply real
property to JDRV. It was noted that Mr. Ring was an indirect owner of 5% of
JDRV and if approved as a licensed supplier, Mr. Ring would own the property on

 which JDRV had built their pavilion. Mr. Filkin stated that JDRV sold the
property to Mr. Ring in December, 1992 and now planned to lease the same
property from Mr. Ring. Chairman Johnson asked several questions concerning the
transfer of assets and instructed JDRV to be prepared at the February, 1994
regular meeting to provide a detailed presentation determining that the
dissipation of assets does not harm the regulation of gambling in Illinois from
a public policy point of view. There being no further discussion, the matter
was deferred to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
Mr. Michael Ficaro, attorney, and Mr. Jack Desatnick, Vice President of
Finance, appeared on behalf of the licensee. They briefly described a proposal
for refinancing of the licensee. The matter was deferred to the February, 1994
regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.
Mr. Kevin Larson, President, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
advised the Board that the licensee would seek approval to issue a $150 million
debt offering at the February, 1994 regular meeting. Mr. Larson briefly
described the disbursement of funds raised by the debt offering. He also
requested approval for combining the assets of River Casino Corporation and
Empress River Casino Corporation. Last, he requested Board approval for a
change in title for Michael Kelly to Chief Financial Officer. The matters were
deferred to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino Corporation.
Mr. William Weidner, President, and Mr. Richard Knight, Chief Operating
Officer, appeared on behalf of the licensee. Mr. Knight told the Board that
cruise disruptions accounted for 29% of scheduled excursions between December 1
and December 25, 1993, but that after December 25, no cruises had occurred due
to ice. Mr. Ed Hanson, architect for Hollywood Casino Corporation, appeared and
updated the Board on plans for power line relocation and dredging of the Fox
River. He noted that the anticipated approval for the projects from the Army
Corps of Engineers would be received in February, 1994 with actual work
beginning in March, 1994. Mr. Hanson stated that work would be interrupted
during the summer months, but that unfinished work would resume in September.
He noted, however, that the bulk of the dredging work was expected to be
completed by May 1, 1994. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership.
Mr. George Kovac appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested
approval of a request for refinancing which would increase equity contributions
of the partners to meet borrowing of one of the partners. He noted that the
equity contribution would rise from $32 million to $58 million with approval of
the request. He stated that the funds would be used to capitalize additional
development at the docksite. Mr. Kovac stated that immediate consideration was
not necessary. The matter was deferred to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Casino Queen, Inc., noting the agenda item
concerning cruise disruptions was deferred at the request of the Interim
Administrator.

 Mr. John Janicik, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
requested the Board clarify whether Terminal Railroad Association, an entity
with whom Casino Queen, Inc. leases to gain access to the Mississippi River, is
required to possess a supplier's license. Mr. Janicik noted that former
Administrator Friedman had been aware of the lease situation. Mr. Janicik
suggested that since Terminal Railroad Association leased land to access the
docksite and not the docksite, itself, that no supplier's license should be
required. The matter was deferred to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The next order of business concerned a request received under the Freedom
of Information Act. The Chairman recognized the Chief Counsel.
Donna More told the Board that a request had been received to disclose the
amount of credit extended to patrons by holders of owner's licenses including
the number of persons extended credit and details of collection activities by
owner licensees. Ms. More stated that the request had been denied by staff and
had been appealed. Ms. More stated that staff's recommendation was for the
Board to solicit the opinion of the industry prior to making a final agency
decision on the request. Mr. Mc Quaid stated that the Board's outside
accounting firms had been asked to submit a separate report on the question
which he hoped would be available for the March, 1994 regular meeting. The
Chairman stated that the issue would appear on a future agenda and placed owner
licensees on notice that their input was requested.
The Chairman instructed
staff to notify owner licensees of the request.
The next order of business concerned review of Sub-part E, Rule 3000.510.
On December 2, 1993, Member Browder made a motion that effective March 1,
1994, Rule 3000.510, Excursions During Inclement Weather or Mechanical
Difficulties be amended by deleting subsection (b) and changing subsection (c)
to read as follows:
"Once a Riverboat captain has determined that circumstances set forth
above have occurred, the Riverboat shall not depart from the dock for the
scheduled excursion or the remainder of an excursion period, whichever is
applicable, and there shall be no gambling on that Riverboat until an actual
moving excursion is underway or has been deemed to be started pursuant to Rule
3000.500 prior to, or following the navigation of the Riverboat." (Minutes of
December 2, 1993 at page 12.)
and that the necessary renumbering of affected subsections occur.
The motion was seconded by Member Pyatt and consideration was postponed to
January 18, 1994, without objection.
The Chairman recognized Member Browder.
Mr. Browder told the Board that the motion reflected his belief that the
Board was not empowered to amend the Riverboat Gambling Act, (Act), by rule. He
noted that the Act specifically prohibited gambling to occur while a riverboat
was docked and that Rule 510 was in conflict with that prohibition. He also
stated that no exception to the prohibition existed in the Act. Mr. Browder
noted that riverboat casinos had invoked Rule 510 in 40.8% of scheduled
excursions since September, 1991 and said that although the state would realize
a decrease in revenues, such reasoning was not a valid reason to promulgate a
rule that allows a prohibited activity under the Act. Mr. Browder recommended

 that the Board adopt the motion to amend Rule 510 and that the legislature take
whatever action it deemed appropriate.
Mr. Browder moved to amend the motion to change the effective date of the
motion by striking out March 1, 1994 and inserting May 1, 1994. Ms. Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion to amend was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman called for discussion and recognized Member Vickrey.
Mr. Vickrey noted the history of the rule reflected that no objections had
been issued by the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules when the rule had
been considered by that body.
Member Roberts observed that the Act lacked clarity in many areas and
granted powers to the Board. He stated that he believed the legislature did not
intend to place the captain of a riverboat in position of imperiling patrons and
therefor could not support the motion.
Member Pyatt stated that she would support the motion because she believed
the Board had exceeded legislative authority and that the legislature should
address the issue. She noted that Rule 510 is in direct conflict with Section
11, (a), (1) of the Act and the Board did not possess the authority to change
the statute.
The Chairman stated that he had supported Rule 510 when it was considered
by the Board in 1991. He stated the issue had been fully discussed on several
occasions and that the primary intent of the Act was to encourage economic
development and tourism. The Board had felt that the raising of a gangplank was
a practical application to control ingress of patrons during unusual
circumstances in attempting to determine the definition of the term "docked".
The Chairman stated that if the motion were adopted, economic development and
tourism would be harmed.
The Chairman next recognized the general public for comments.
The Honorable Thomas Mc Cracken appeared on behalf of the Riverboat Gaming
Council. Mr. Mc Cracken filed a written statement. It was noted that the
Riverboat Gaming Council had been identified, in writing, by eight of the nine
licensed owners as their representative on the issue. Mr. Mc Cracken noted the
rule was a patron safety rule and should be viewed as consistent with statutory
authority.
Mr. John Janicik, attorney for Casino Queen, Inc., appeared and stated
that although not a member of the Riverboat Gaming Council, Casino Queen agreed
with the Council's position, as well as the comments of Member Roberts and the
Chairman.
Rev. Thomas Grey of the United Methodist Church appeared. He urged
support of the motion. He stated that owner licensees appeared to be in a race
to see who could remain docked most often. He noted that because of the
inability to cruise, Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture had added a cruise to
their schedule. Rev. Grey stated that the legislature should debate the issue.
The Chairman commented that the rule had been reviewed by the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules on two occasions; once as an Emergency Rule

 and once during the normal rule promulgation process. He stated that the
purpose of the Joint Committee was to review the actions of administrative
agencies in not circumventing the intent of the General Assembly. The Chairman
noted that Rule 510 had not been questioned as circumventing legislative intent
nor had the legislature, on its own, amended the Act to render Rule 510 mute.
Mr. Browder restated his belief that Rule 510 changes what the Act states
and that the Board had exceeded its authority in promulgating the rule requiring
further action by the legislature to clarify legislative intent. Mr. Browder
urged approval of the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays by oral roll call.
responded, to wit:
MR.
MS.
MR.
MR.
MR.

BROWDER
PYATT
ROBERTS
VICKREY
CHAIRMAN

The members

"AYE"
"AYE"
"NO"
"NO"
"NO"

Mr. Vickrey explained his vote. He stated that the Act was ambiguous but
that he believed that the intent of the legislature was to benefit the people of
Illinois by assisting economic development. Mr. Vickrey stated that he believed
the motion was contrary to that intent and that the lack of an objection to the
rule by the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules was indicative that the
intent of the legislature had been met. Mr. Vickrey stated that for those
reasons, he was voting 'no.'
Mr. Roberts explained his vote. He stated that for the reasons he
previously expressed, he was voting 'no.'
The motion, as amended, failed.
The Chairman next acknowledged and recognized Argosy Gaming Company.
J. Thomas Long, Chief Executive Officer, appeared. He gave notice that
Argosy Gaming Company would seek Board approval for a financing transaction at
the February, 1994 meeting. Mr. Long briefly described the need of Argosy
Gaming Company to raise $100 to $150 million to finance projects in Louisiana
and Missouri. He stated that detailed information would be forthcoming in the
near future. The Chairman stated that while the Board was not promising final
action at the February, 1994 regular meeting, the matter would be added to the
agenda.
Mr. Browder moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2
(g), (h) and (k) that the Board retire to Closed Session to consider the
following subject matters:
1.
Reports concerning applicants for Occupational
Supplier licenses
2.
Recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge
3.
Investigatory matters
4.
Personnel - Search for Administrator.
Mr. Roberts seconded the motion.
nays.

and

The Chairman called for the yeas and

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 12:35 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 2:29 P.M.
members were present.

All

The first order of business concerned Suppliers Licenses.
The Chairman ordered the application for a Suppliers License be deferred
to the February, 1994 regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Mr. James Fletcher, attorney for supplier
IGT.
Mr. Fletcher requested Board approval for IGT to change their name to IGT
- North America.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board approve the requested name change to IGT
- North America. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned applications received for
Occupational Licenses.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the applications received from Ronald Allison, Paul
Benes, Larry Close, Michael Crider, Michael Dickson, Larry Dowdy, David Goodhue,
James Guttke, Joseph Korba, Damon Runyon and Craig Travers for Occupational
License, Level 1 be approved. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board adopt the staff report and
recommendations with respect to applications received for Occupational Licenses
Levels 2 & 3 and that the applications be approved. It was noted the motion
included 913 applications. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board adopt the staff report and
recommendations with respect to applications received for Occupational Licenses
Levels 2 & 3 and that the applications be denied. It was noted the motion
included 35 applications. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned recommendations of the Administrative
Law Judge.
Mr. Vickrey moved that Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an

 Occupational License for Charles Walsh.
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.

The

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an
Occupational License for Charles Calkins. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an
Occupational License for Todd M. Clark. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an
Occupational License for David Pennell. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an
Occupational License for Angelina Arias. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an
Occupational License for Freddie Aleman. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned pending investigations.
The
Chairman stated that during Closed Session, staff had updated the Board on
pending investigatory matters. The Board instructed staff to conclude some
matters.
The next item of business concerned the search for an Administrator.
Chairman stated those efforts continued.

The

The Chief Counsel advised the Board that Mr. Charles Walsh had requested
leave of the Board, having been denied an Occupational License, to re-apply
within one year of the date of his denial. Ms. More noted that Mr. Walsh had

 failed to disclose an arrest from 1954 and that the request required leave of
the Board.
Mr. Roberts moved the request of Charles Walsh to re-apply for an
Occupational License within one year of denial of a previous application be
granted leave. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman announced that the Board was contemplating changing the
structure of meetings. Under the suggested change, the Board would convene and
immediately retire to Closed Session returning to Open Session at a time certain
allowing the public to shorten the time spent at Board meetings. He noted that
action on agenda items would not occur until the Board had returned from Closed
Session. The Chairman asked for input from the public to the proposal.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Roberts
moved the Board stand adjourned. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned
at 2:41 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 