MEETING OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the July 27, 2017 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:30 a.m.
Investment Committee
in attendance:

1.

Mr. Lawrence L. Wilson, CPA (Chair), Mr. Robert DeGraff, Mr.
John Fitzgerald, Ms. Diahann Goode, Mr. Andrew Jatico, Mr.
William Kouruklis, Mr. Joseph Nevius, Mr. Patrick McFadden
and Mr. Dennis White

Staff Present:

N. Hackett, M. Fahrenbach, M. Maratea, F. Vinzons, and V.
Calahong

Others Present:

B. Bernard, J. Coons, S. Haskins, J. Jackson, M. Joecken, A.
O’Bradovich, G. Podkaminer – Callan; A. Myers – Loop
Capital

Approval of April 27, 2017 Investment Committee Meeting Minutes;
Motion for Approval and Adoption of Minutes. It was moved by Trustee McFadden and
seconded by Trustee Jatico that the minutes of the April 27, 2017 Investment Committee
meeting be approved and adopted.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2.

Cook County Performance Review;
Mr. Jackson provided general market commentary and reviewed the first quarter 2017
performance for the Cook County Fund as prepared and presented by Callan Associates. The
Cook County Fund had a market value of $9.29 billion and returned 4.07% in the first
quarter, outperforming the custom benchmark return of 3.68%. International equities
provided the strongest absolute return in the quarter, but relative outperformance versus the
custom benchmark was driven primarily by fixed income. The Cook County Fund also

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax  
www.cookcountypension.com

 outperformed the custom benchmark for the one-year and five-year periods, returning 11.66%
(+265 bps) and 7.69% (+79 bps) for each period respectively. The Cook County Fund
increased in value during the first quarter with investment returns of $362.0 million and net
additions of $7.6 million due to sales tax proceeds. As of March 31, 2017 assets were
underweight in fixed income and hedge funds and slightly overweight in the remaining asset
classes. Mr. Jackson noted that the 2.0% underweighting to hedge funds is due to continued
unwinding of one of the managers.
3.

Forest Preserve Performance Review;
Mr. Jackson provided general market commentary and reviewed the first quarter 2017
performance for the Forest Preserve Fund as prepared and presented by Callan. The Forest
Preserve Fund had a market value of $194.7 million and returned 4.29% in the first quarter,
underperforming against the 4.38% custom benchmark return. International equity posted the
poorest relative return, but was partially offset by outperformance by domestic equity and
hedge funds. The Forest Preserve Fund returned 9.86% for the one-year period, trailing the
10.69% benchmark return by 83 bps. However, the five-year period return of 8.49% exceeded
the 7.22% benchmark return by 128 bps, continuing the track record of long term
outperformance. The Forest Preserve Fund increased in value during the first quarter as
investment returns of approximately $8.0 million offset net withdrawals of $1.9 million. As
of March 31, 2017 the portfolio was slightly underweight fixed income and overweight in
domestic and international equity (but all within the +/-4% revised target range as approved
effective July 1, 2016).

4.

Domestic Equity Structure Review;
Mr. Podkaminer began the review with a discussion on the role of U.S. equity in the portfolio
as a source of capital growth. He continued with a review of the Russell 3000 Index as the
policy benchmark, noting its construction as a capitalization-weighted index including large,
mid, and small cap securities. Against this backdrop, Mr. Podkaminer discussed the Forest
Preserve Fund’s current structure, highlighting the current overweight to mid and small cap,
style-neutrality relative to the policy benchmark, and growth objective. Mr. Podkaminer also
provided an overview of domestic equity for the Cook County Fund. As with the Forest
Preserve Fund, he discussed the Russell 3000 Index as the policy benchmark and reviewed
the Cook County Fund’s current structure, drawing attention to the overweight to mid and
small cap, style neutrality relative to the policy benchmark, and growth objective.
Motion to Convene an Executive Session
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode that the Investment
Committee convene an Executive Session pursuant to Section 2(c)(7) of the Open Meetings
Act to discuss the domestic equity structures in further detail.
Roll Call Vote:
Ayes:
Degraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Jatico, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White,
Wilson
NAYS:
None
Vote Result:
MOTION ADOPTED
Motion to Close Executive Session
Upon concluding the discussion within the Executive Session it was moved by Trustee
Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode to close the Executive Session.
County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
No action was taken during closed session. Upon return to open session, the Investment
Committee voted on the recommendations presented by Callan Associates in the closed
session.
Motion to Approve Domestic Equity Structure Recommendations for the County Fund and
the Forest Preserve Fund
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee DeGraff to approve the
proposed domestic equity structure recommendations for the County Fund and Forest
Preserve Fund as presented by Callan Associates.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
5.

Real Estate Performance, Structure, and Pacing Discussion;
A) Cook County Real Estate Discussion
Ms. Haskins began the presentation with general real estate market commentary and
reviewed the Cook County Fund’s real estate structure, strategy, and performance. She
discussed the composition of the total real estate benchmark, which is weighted 70% to
the NCREIF NFI-ODCE Value Weight Net and 30% to the NAREIT Equity Index. As of
March 31, 2017 the Fund’s real estate was valued at $841.5 million, approximately 9.1%
of total Fund assets. Real estate returned 1.69% in the first quarter, outpacing the 1.43%
total real estate benchmark return by 26 bps. The 6.35% one-year period return
outperformed the 6.21% custom benchmark. However, the 9.44% five-year period return
trailed the 10.03% custom benchmark return. Ms. Haskins noted that the five-year return
includes performance from legacy real estate managers which no longer constitute a
significant portion of the real estate allocation.
With regard to structure, Ms. Haskins reminded the committee of the Fund’s minimum
70% target allocation to core real estate, 20% maximum to non-core real estate, 20%
maximum to strategic REITs, and no policy limits for non-strategic REITs. Policy also
includes a 30% maximum allocation to any one manager. Against this backdrop, it was
highlighted that the portfolio is in-line with the 9% real estate target, but the structure is
out of compliance due to a Core allocation of just 58%, below the 70% minimum
stipulated by policy. Additionally, allocations to the two core real estate managers,
PRISA and J.P. Morgan Strategic Property Fund, are at or close to the maximum 30%
individual manager limit. Lastly, Ms. Haskins noted the need to address the non-strategic
nature of the Russell REIT ETF allocation.
With regard to pacing, Ms. Haskins examined the expected contributions into and
distributions out of the Cook County Fund real estate portfolio over the next five years. In
particular, the dynamic nature of the non-core allocation was highlighted wherein yearto-year some funds are investing while others are liquidating. The study details the
amount of new capital required annually to keep the Cook County Fund invested at close
to the 9% real estate target.
Having discussed performance, structure, and pacing, Ms. Haskins recommended that the
Fund address the underweight allocation to core real estate, the non-strategic nature of the
County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 Russell REIT ETF, and pacing of the real estate portfolio for the next five years. The net
effect is to maintain the real estate portfolio at 9% of total Fund assets over the next five
years, raise the core allocation from underweight to in-line with policy, and eliminate the
non-strategic Russell REIT ETF. Additionally, future cash distributions from the core
funds will not be re-invested so as to avoid surpassing the 30% single manager limit.
B) Cook County Follow-on Real Estate Investment Opportunity;
Ms. Bernard next discussed Mesirow Financial Real Estate Value Fund III, L.P
(MFREVF-III), a non-core real estate fund pursuing a multi-family value-add strategy.
Ms. Bernard reviewed Mesirow’s track record, strategy, process, and capabilities in the
space and compared MFREVF-III to its predecessor funds, including Fund II in which
the Cook County Fund is currently invested.
C) Forest Preserve Fund Real Estate Discussion;
Similar to the discussion for the Cook County Fund, Ms. Haskins discussed the Forest
Preserve Fund’s real estate structure, strategy, and performance. As of March 31, 2017
the portfolio’s real estate was valued at $17.3 million, approximately 8.9% of total Fund
assets. Real estate returned 1.78% in the first quarter, outpacing the 1.44% total real
estate benchmark return by 34 bps. The 6.56% one-year period return outperformed the
6.34% custom benchmark by 22 bps. However, the 8.34% five-year period trailed the
9.34% custom benchmark return by 100 bps.
With regard to structure, Ms. Haskins noted Forest Preserve’s 9% target allocation for
total real estate as well as policy requiring a minimum 80% allocation to core real estate
and 20% maximum to strategic REITs. Ms. Haskins noted the policy does not address
non-strategic REITs. Against this backdrop, it was highlighted that the portfolio is in-line
with the 9% real estate target, but the structure is outside of target due to a Core
allocation of just 74%, below the 80% minimum stipulated by policy. Additionally, Ms.
Haskins noted the need to address the non-strategic nature of the Russell REIT ETF
allocation.
Having discussed performance, structure, and pacing, Ms. Haskins then outlined a plan
for the Forest Preserve Fund to address the underweight allocation to core real estate and
the non-strategic nature of the Russell REIT ETF. The net effect of this plan is to
maintain the real estate portfolio at 9% of Forest Preserve Fund assets, raise the core
allocation from underweight to in-line with policy, and eliminate the non-strategic
Russell REIT ETF.
Motion to Approve a Follow-On Investment in Mesirow Financial Real Estate Value
Fund III (MFREVF-III) for the Cook County Fund
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee DeGraff to approve a $30
million follow-on investment to MFREVF-III for the Cook County Fund based on the
recommendation from Callan Associates.
Roll Call Vote:
Ayes:
Degraff, Goode, Jatico, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White, Wilson
NAYS:
None
Vote Result:
MOTION ADOPTED

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 4

 Motion to Approve the Callan Associates’ Rebalancing Recommendations with Regard
to the Cook County Fund’s and Forest Preserve Fund’s Real Estate Investment
Portfolios.
Upon completion of the real estate presentation, it was moved by Trustee McFadden and
seconded by Trustee DeGraff to approve the rebalancing recommendations for both the
Cook County Fund and Forest Preserve Fund, as presented by Callan Associates.
Roll Call Vote:
Ayes:
Degraff, Goode, Jatico, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White, Wilson
NAYS:
None
Vote Result:
MOTION ADOPTED
6.

Transition Management Search Update
Mr. Vinzons began with a review of the progress to-date pertaining to the transition manager
search. The search was launched on April 17, 2017 and generated nine responses. Callan
Associates and Fund Investment Staff reviewed the proposals and narrowed the list of
candidates for additional due diligence. Five candidates were presented to the Investment
Committee for inclusion in the Fund’s new transition pool.
Motion to Approve Candidate Firms for the Fund’s New Transition Pool
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Jatico that BlackRock
Institutional Trust Company, Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc., Loop Capital Markets,
Penserra Transition Management, and Russell Investments Implementation Services be
approved for the Fund’s reconstituted transition pool, subject to satisfactory completion of
transition management guidelines and successful contract negotiations. It was further moved
that the Fund Investment Staff and Executive Director be authorized to take all actions
reasonably necessary to effect the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
Ayes:
NAYS:
Vote Result:

7.

Degraff, Goode, Jatico, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White, Wilson
None
MOTION ADOPTED

Search Update
Ms. Hackett provided an update on the Active Core-Plus Bond and Short Duration Bond
Emerging Manager searches currently outstanding. In particular, she noted the number of
actual responses for the Short Duration Bond Emerging Manager search. In discussing the
actual response rate, she highlighted RFP criteria such as product AUM, firm AUM, and
capacity used to screen potential emerging manager firms. The Investment Committee agreed
and advised Fund Investment Staff to continue the RFP process.

8.

Adjournment.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode that the meeting be
adjourned.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 5

 