MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
December 14, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, December 14, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois immediately following. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy,
Members Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas
Dunn.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of November 3, 2016. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS:
Chairman Tracy commented on the inducement policy's implementation and the SEP program
for Video Gaming.
ADMINISTRATOR'S REPORT:
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 5,732 locations and 24,811 VGT's currently
operating.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY:
IGMOA – Scott Renville – Vice President
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Licenses


Global Gaming Industries LLC

Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the Terminal Operator license application
of Global Gaming Industries LLC, as it has failed to demonstrate its qualifications and
suitability for licensure, and to authorize the Administrator to issue a notice of denial.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

 

Jackpot Video Gaming, Inc.

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Jackpot
Video Gaming, Inc., for a term of one year, expiring in December 2017, as the applicant
has demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals


Springfield Gaming, LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of
Springfield Gaming, LLC for a term of one year, expiring in December 2017. Member
Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
License Renewals
o Illinois Rewards, Inc. d/b/a Rewards Suites – Supplier License Renewal
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Illinois
Rewards, Inc. d/b/a Rewards Suites, for a period of one year, expiring in December
2017. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
DISASSOCIATION PURSUANT TO BOARD RULE 795
Member Dunn moved that the Board issue a notice of disassociation to Gaming &
Entertainment Management – Illinois LLC, ordering it to disassociate from Melissa
Mendino-Hektor, said disassociation to become effective 21 days from the date of
service of the notice, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that the Board table the matter pertaining to an 'other interested
party' of LZ Entertainment LLC. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve issuance of 36 Terminal Handler
licenses. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.

2

 Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved to approve the renewal of the licenses of Technicians and
Terminal Handlers who were previously licensed or renewed in December 2015, and who
have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fees and
otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Video Gaming Location Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 89 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, valid for
a period of one year, expiring in December 2017, and authorize the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to:
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Stone Lake Partners L.L.C. d/b/a Club Allure Chicago
Isaac Sanders d/b/a Marque Place
Candi Stith d/b/a Las Huertas Grill
BP Evergreen, LLC d/b/a BP Evergreen, LLC
JCJ Beverages II, Inc. d/b/a Balen's Bar & Grill
Red Carpet Ent Inc. d/b/a Red Carpet Lounge
JEP Inc. d/b/a Hamilton's Pub
CR Thirteen Peoria Heights LLC d/b/a Lucky's Modern Dive
Aragona Corporation d/b/a Aragona Club
Good Shakti, LLC d/b/a Hott 7's
D.M. Vidor, Inc. d/b/a Remington's Gastropub

Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal and Non-Renewal of Locations (second motion)
Member Robinson moved to approve the renewal of the Retail Establishments, Truck
Stops, Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or renewed in December
2015, that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and
otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules,
and authorize the Administrator to issue a notice of non-renewal to ARCADE CAFE &
PANCAKE HOUSE INC. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Dunn moved that the Board rescind its November 3, 2016 denial of the
establishment license renewal application submitted by Danny Carney Inc. d/b/a
Joker's Bar & Grill, and renew this establishment's license for a term of one year,
retroactive to November 2016, expiring in November 2017. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet the Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking two establishment
license of JB III LLC d/b/a Shepardo's Italian Villa and Thomas Transport Inc.
d/b/a Kountry Korners for having active tax liabilities and not maintaining the
minimum qualifications for licensure, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer if properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment
license of Gilman Red Door, Inc., due to its owner's criminal arrest, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer if properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

Active Tax Liability and Failure to Cooperate with Board Agents
Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
license of Ronald & Patricia Ponton d/b/a The Loft and C.G.S., L.L.C. d/b/a C.G.S.
LLC for failing to keep current on their obligations to the state and for failing to
cooperate with the Board's efforts to resolve these issues, said actions to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed by
each location within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 Failure to Maintain Valid Liquor License
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment
license of Nami 99, Inc. d/b/a Sway Bar for operating video gaming terminals without a
valid liquor license, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Disclose Changes in Ownership
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the
establishment licenses of:






Chickasaw, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro
Dakota One, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro
Menominee, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro
Mokena One, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro and
Sauk, LLC d/b/a Bonny's Bistro

for failing to properly notify the Board of changes in their ownership, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless each location pays a
$1,000 fine or properly files an Answer within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Undisclosed PSICs, Hidden Ownership and Lying to Board Agents
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Establishment
licensees of:




Whit's End 51, Inc. d/b/a Whit's End 51
Whits End 48, Inc. d/b/a Whits End 48, Inc. and
CAC Restaurants, Inc. d/b/a Coz's

for failing to identify to the Board an individual required to be identified under the Rules,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an
Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
licenses of:






Q West Inc. d/b/a Q Bar
Deep Pockets Billiards, LLC d/b/a Deep Pockets Billiards
B. T. Miller, Inc. d/b/a Racks on the Racks
Michelle's S I Inc. d/b/a Michelle's Stumble Inn and
TJ's Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a TJ Snickers Sports Bar & Grill
5

 for allowing unlawful gambling on the premises, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless each location pays a fine of $5,000 or
properly files an Answer within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
licenses of:



WT Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Halfway Inn (120707529);
WT Entertainment, LLC d/b/a POW WOW (130704884);

for their personal and business associations, and for obstructing and attempting to deceive
the Board's agents, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless each location properly files an Answer within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Terminal
Handler license of Jeffrey Constantino due to his associations with persons of notorious
or unsavory reputation, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with Wasabi Japanese Kitchen LLC d/b/a Diamond's Sushi &
Food related to DC-V-16-109 and authorize the Board's legal counsel to present the
executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for disposition of this
matter. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Dunn moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with MIH Enterprises, Inc. related to DC-V-16-39, and authorize
the Board's legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the
Administrative Law Judge for disposition of this matter. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:02 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 