STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 12, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald,
Member of the Board; Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD March 13, 2012

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the March 13, 2012 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from March 1 to March 31, 2012. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. S-RC-08-130
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) Kehoe’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) stating that the Petitioner sought to
add to the existing RC-10 bargaining unit three individuals in the title of Public Service Administrator,
Option 8L. Counsel Kazanjian recommended that the Board accept the RDO to include the three employees
at issue into the unit. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept Counsel Kazanjian
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-11-167
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/ Village of Summit
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by ALJ
Hamburg-Gal's RDO, finding that the Respondent violated Section 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). General Counsel Post recommended that the Board accept the
ALJ’s recommendation and find that Respondent violated the Act by failing to bargain regarding the use of
video in disciplinary proceedings. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to reject General Counsel
Post’s recommendation and reverse the ALJ’s RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-UC-11-152
Laborer’s International Union of North America/ County of Crawford, et al.
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-11-201
Glenview Firefighters Ass’n, Local 4186, Int’l Ass’n of Fire Fighters/ Village of Glenview
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CB-10-073
Amanda Moren/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
August 25, 2011, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Tarver’s
memorandum, reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that Respondent had violated Section 10(b)
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). After reviewing the appeal General Counsel
Post recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CB-10-004
Britt Weatherford/ American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
October 11, 2011, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Kehoe's
memorandum, reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that Charging Party alleged that the
Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). After
reviewing the appeal and response, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board uphold the
Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept General Counsel
Post’s recommendation to uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Besson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CB-11-002
Britt Weatherford/ American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
November 22, 2011, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Owen’s
memorandum, reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that Charging Party alleged that Respondent
violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). After reviewing the
appeal General Counsel Post recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. After
discussion, Member Washington moved to accept General Counsel Post’s recommendation to uphold the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

2

 8.
Case No. S-CA-11-255
Barbara Martenson/County of Boone/ Sheriff of Boone County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a partial dismissal on
November 28, 2011 with an appeal filed. Counsel Bell reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, noting
that the charge alleged that Respondent engaged in unfair labor practices within the meaning of Section
10(a)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). Counsel Bell recommended that the
Executive Director’s partial dismissal be reversed and remanded for issuance of a complaint for hearing.
After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept Counsel Bell’s recommendation to reverse and remand
the partial dismissal and that the Board issue a complaint for hearing. Member Coli seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
9.
Case No. S-CA-12-076
Int’l Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local No. 700/ State of Illinois, Department of Central
Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
January 5, 2012 with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Hamburg-Gal’s
memorandum, reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, noting that the charge alleged that Respondent
engaged in unfair labor practices within the meaning of Section 10(a)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010). General Counsel Post recommended that the Executive Director’s
dismissal be reversed and remanded for issuance of a complaint for hearing. After discussion, Member
Besson moved to accept General Counsel Post’s recommendation to reverse and remand the dismissal and
that the Board issue a complaint for hearing. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, Member Besson
made a motion to leave open session. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Besson made a motion to go into executive session to discuss
litigation matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Washington made a
motion to leave executive session. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member
Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of May, 2012.

3

 