December th
12
, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:07 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (12/12/2018)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Kevin Irvine, Johnny Miller, Andre Youngblood. Robert Patterson was absent.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Amanda Beach, Richard Damsch

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
November 14th, 2018. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes and o
abstention (Alva Rosales).
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Item # 5-A, a resolut
setting the dates of the July, October, and November 2019 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting
times of the March and June 2019 meetings. After being moved and seconded, the motio
approved with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve an ordinance appointing a trustee to the B
of Trustees of the retirement plan for Chicago Transit Authority employees. After being moved and
seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve an ordinance appointing a trustee to the B
of Trustees of the Chicago Transit Authority Retiree Health Care Trust. After being moved and seco
the motion was approved with six yes votes.

Finally, Chairman Peterson asked Assistant Secretary Gregory Longhini to read a resolution honori
Walter H. Clark. After the resolution was read into the record, Chairman Peterson asked for a moti
approve a resolution honoring the life of Mr. Walter H. Clark, former Chairman of the Chicago Trans
Board. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva prese
report.The committeereviewedthe monthly(December)
report on Finance,and approvedthe
th
November 14
, 2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee age
items, listed on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omni
and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

1

 All approved December 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
,
“Chicago Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 018-110 through 018-118.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Carole Morey presented the Construction Report. Th
report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations made to
the Chicago Transit Board”, (December 2018), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjournth,the
2018
December 12
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 