STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on November 10, 2009

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan and Ellen M. Strizak acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETINGS HELD IN OCTOBER 2009

A. Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the October 6, 2009 meeting.
Member Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
B. Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the October 15, 2009 meeting.
Member Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2009. He distributed the report
to the Board, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-057
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of Oak Brook

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented
by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Strizak's Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-RC-09-108 and S-RC-09-110
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 3.
Case No. S-UC-08-104
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-08-188
American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of East Moline
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
August 5, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion,
Member Washington moved to uphold the executive director's order. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Staff distributed the fiscal report, and the Board examined and discussed it at length. The Board
reviewed the status of legislation that could affect the agency and in particular, discussed the
ramifications of P.A. 096-0813. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive
session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of December, 2009.

2

 