STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on March 15, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski,
Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 8, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the February 8, 2011 meeting. Member
Sadlowski moved to approve the minutes. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from February 1 to February 28, 2011. He presented the report, along with a
report on the agency's efforts at mediation, and summarized the highlights in each. The Board examined
the reports and discussed them.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case Nos. L-RC-09-027 and L-RC-10-025
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook
County/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued an order partially
revoking the certification issued in Case No. L-RC-10-025, with an appeal filed by the incumbent labor
organization. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and recommended that the
Board accept the Executive Director's revocation. In addition, the General Counsel recommended that the
Board deny the incumbent's pending request for oral argument. After discussion, Member Anderson
moved to deny the request for oral argument. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. After a discussion of the merits, Member Anderson moved to
accept the General Counsel's recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-AC-11-004
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local No. 700/County of Cook
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 20, 2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the

 appeal, and recommended that the Board reverse and remand the Executive Director's order. After
discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the General Counsel's recommendation. Chairman
Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
agency and addressed various operational concerns previously raised by the Board. After a short
discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of April, 2011.

2

 