MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
August 12, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on August 12, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Gary Peterlin, Violet Clark, and William Dugan.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the August 12, 2003 Regular Meeting at 9:37 A.M. in the
3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Peterlin moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (August 12, 2003) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:30 P.M.
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the following open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of July 18, 2003 and Special Meeting of July 24, 2003. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Peterlin moved that all portions of the closed session minutes of the Illinois
Gaming Board from January 21, 2003 through and including June 20, 2003, for which
the need for confidentiality no longer exists, be made available for public inspection in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act. Member Dugan seconded the motion.The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has taken a serious look at the request of the
licensees that have requested changes in their hours of operation. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that if the licensees’ request is granted, it could result in the loss of employment for
some casino employees. Chairman Higginbottom stated that several licensees have already
laid off a number of employees as a result of the tough economic times. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that this is a matter that is not being taken lightly by the Board.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board is mandated to make sure that the integrity of
gaming in Illinois is protected and also to collect taxes on the operating riverboats. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board is looking at ways and working with the licensees to
make sure that the gaming business can be protected in light of the tough economic times and
in light of the issues as it relates to changes in the taxes. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
the Board is looking at all sides. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board wants to
make sure that the State is protected and that the revenues from the facilities are protected for
the citizens of the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the licensees have
been very cooperative in the discussions with the Board and Staff and are working with the
Board and Staff to try to come up with imaginative ways to make sure that they can protect
revenue as well.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator, Jeannette Tamayo, announced that the Department of Revenue and the
Governor’s office have requested that Staff identify another strategic plan. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that IGB’s last strategic plan was developed in August of 2001.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff met to revise the strategic plan, and have
come up with four points for the Gaming Board: (1) to ensure fair gaming in a safe
environment; (2) to ensure that individuals and entities engaged in gaming are suitable; (3) to
maintain the integrity of tax fee payment collection and distribution process; and (4) to
maximize revenues from the ten operational licneses.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been advised that the Gaming Committee
will be holding a hearing on September 2, 2003 at 10:00 A.M. and that the Gaming Board has
been requested to present testimony at that time. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
the subject matter is to lay out the impact of the legislation that was passed in the spring.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff would also be discussing how some of the
external budget issues have impacted on the licensees and how the operational changes may
be impacting the projected budget revenue.
Gene O’Shea, who is the Acting Director of the Self-Exclusion Program, provided the Board
and the public with an annual report on the Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. O’Shea stated that
to date, there are 812 persons enrolled in the program. Mr. O’Shea stated that there are 22
enrollment sites for self-exclusion throughout the State of Illinois. Mr. O’Shea stated that in
comparison to other states throughout the country, it is his belief that the State of Illinois has
more enrollment sites than any other state.

2

 Mr. O’Shea stated that Staff has been cooperating with other jurisdictions since the selfexclusion program began. Mr. O’Shea stated that other states such as Indiana and New
York, are starting a self-exclusion program and have requested assistance from Staff.
Mr. O’Shea stated that he has set some goals for the self-exclusion program for the next year.
Mr. O’Shea stated that Staff would like to increase the profile of the program. Mr. O’Shea
stated that Staff is also looking into the idea of creating a combined database with other
states such as Indiana and Missouri. Mr. O’Shea stated that Staff is also looking into some
new funding initiatives to help out the organizations that have helped the Gaming Board with
the Self-Exclusion Program, such as the Outreach Foundation and the Illinois Council.
Public Commentary
Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems
was present to discuss Senate Bill 1607 and whether or not the change in the Bill gives the
Board the authority to permit the casinos in Rock Island, Alton, and East St. Louis to
relocate.
Ms. Bedell stated that she appreciates the fact that the Board has committed to looking
carefully into the licensees’ request to change their hours of operation. Ms. Bedell urged the
Board to continue to strictly regulate these practices.
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association was present to discuss
the positive things that are going on with the Illinois casino industry. Mr. Swoik announced
that last week the American Gaming Association sponsored “Responsible Gaming Week.”
Mr. Swoik stated that around-the-state participation included training sessions, which
reminded casino employees of the importance of responsible gaming, and spotting underage
gamblers.
Mr. Swoik stated that the Illinois casino industry continues to honor their commitment to
responsible gaming and looks forward to continuing to work with Staff on the Self-Exclusion
Program.
Board Policy Items
RIVERBOAT CRUISING CONTINGENCY PLANS- RESOLUTION TO NO LONGER
REQUIRE PLANS FOR: HARRAH’S METROPOLIS, HARRAH’S JOLIET,
HOLLYWOOD CASINO, AND EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET - Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that since 1999, when a licensee purchased a second Illinois property or
attempted to sell its vessels, or at times of renewal, the Board would impose a condition
requiring that they hold firm to a contingency plan should riverboat cruising be required.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the condition was based on the non-severability
clause contained in the former legislation. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that this past

3

 spring, legislation was passed that allowed for the severability. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that since there is no longer a severablity issue, Staff thought it appropriate to
bring it before the Board and lift the contingency requirement for all four casinos that are
affected – Harrah’s Metropolis, Harrah’s Joliet, Hollywood Casino, and Empress casino.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that each of the four casinos has been required either
through a direct order from the Board, a condition imposed on their license or through an
agreement with Staff to maintain a contingency plan. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated
that this would allow each of the operators to sell or dismantle any vessel that they have
pursuant to all of the standard regulatory approvals.
Member Clark moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on June 20, 2003, Public Act 93-0028 became law.
WHEREAS, Public Act 93-0028 amends section 11.2 of the Riverboat
Gambling Act to include a severability clause, removing the former
inseverability-clause language.
WHEREAS, no statutory purpose exists to require Harrah’s-Joliet,
Harrah’s-Metropolis, Hollywood Casino-Aurora and Empress CasinoJoliet to maintain a contingency plan to cruise in the event that section
11.2 is, in the future, declared unconstitutional.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board hereby removes
all prior requirements that Harrah’s-Joliet, Harrah’s-Metropolis,
Hollywood Casino-Aurora and Empress Casino-Joliet maintain a
contingency plan to cruise.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Owner Licensee Items
HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC. – REQUEST TO ELIMINATE FINANCIAL
OWNERSHIP CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR HARRAH’S METROPOLIS – John Janicik,
Attorney, and Lou Anderson, Vice President of Legal, were present on behalf of Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. to request initial consideration for approval to eliminate financial
ownership contingency plan for Harrah’s Metropolis.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that at the time that Harrah’s purchased the second
property, they were required to execute certain trust documents to the financial contingency
plan in place and to maintain it viable at all times. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
4

 within the terms of the contract itself, it provided for the occurrence of a reverse trigger
event. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff had a discussion with Harrah’s and
informed them that Staff would bring it up for initial consideration at today’s (August 12,
2003) meeting and for final consideration at September’s meeting, so that Staff could go
back and look at the trust documents and the original agreement and make sure that Staff are
applying it as the reverse trigger event is required to be applied pursuant to those documents.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION DURING
CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Casino Rock
Island to request approval to change hours of operation during the Christmas holiday.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board approve Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Casino Rock Island’s request to
change hours of operation during Christmas holiday. Furthermore, Member Peterlin
moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, under Section 5 of the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act, (Act)
the Board may delegate the execution of any of its powers for the purpose
of administering and enforcing this act and its rules;
WHEREAS, under Section 5 of the Act, the Administrator shall perform
any and all duties that the Board shall assign;
WHEREAS, under Board Rule 3000.230(d), an applicant or owner
licensee must disclose and obtain formal Board approval whenever a
change is proposed in the areas specified under the above-referenced rule;
and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Administrator shall be
authorized to approve the following proposed changes:

1. An Owner Licensee’s request to increase its total daily hours of
operation up to 22 hours;
2. An Owner Licensee’s request to maintain its total daily hours of
operation, but change its open time and close time; and
3. An Owner Licensee’s request to change its total daily hours of
operation for a holiday or seasonal event.

5

 Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – Rodney
Phillipe, General Counsel, and Pat Medchill, General Manager, were present on behalf of
Hollywood Casino to request approval to change hours of operation. Mr. Phillipe stated that
since Hollywood Casino’s initial request, Hollywood has had the opportunity to submit
additional written material to the Administrator, as well as meet with the Administrator and
Counsel and further expound on some of the questions and concerns that both Staff and the
Board have.
Mr. Phillipe addressed two concerns of the Chairman’s: the integrity of gaming and revenues
to the State.
Mr. Phillipe stated that integrity of gaming has always been the priority and will continue to
be the priority in Hollywood Aurora. Mr. Phillipe stated that Hollywood would continue to
work with the Administrator and Staff concerning issues in this area.
Mr. Phillipe stated that in regards to revenues to the State, Hollywood has a duty to
maximize its revenue both to the State and to its shareholders. Mr. Phillipe stated that under
the70 Percent Business model, Hollywood has made changes that would have the least
impact on its core customers.
Member Clark asked what impact has the change of hours had on Hollywood’s employees.
Mr. Phillipe stated that when he looked at the numbers a few weeks ago, it had affected 34
employees. Mr. Phillipe stated that the number may be less today due to employees moving
over to another department. Mr. Phillipe stated that Hollywood has tried to the best of their
ability to take employees that have been displaced and move them into a newly created
position or areas that would have been created on another shift.
Chairman Higginbottom asked what Hollywood’s new hours would be.
Mr. Phillipe stated that Hollywood is currently operating from 8:30 A.M. to 6:30 A.M., and
would like to change its hours to operate from 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 A.M.
Member Peterlin stated that it would be important to continue to monitor what happens to
some of the employees that have been displaced so when the Board looks at this six months
from now, the Board could see what really happened to some of the employees.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Hollywood Casino – Aurora’s request to change hours of operation
to 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 a.m. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

6

 HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION –
Michael St. Pierre, General Manager was present on behalf of Harrah’s Casino, Joliet to
request approval to change Harrah’s hours of operation.
Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s has submitted a substantial amount of information in
response to the Board’s concerns. Mr. St. Pierre stated that on the 25th of July, 73 employees
were alerted that their positions were no longer going to be available for them. Mr. St. Pierre
stated that since that time, 15 of those employees have found employment with Harrah’s
Joliet or an affiliated Harrah’s Casino property. Mr. St. Pierre stated that in regards to
unfilled vacancies, about 175 positions have been eliminated through just attrition and
unfilled vacancies within the last year. Mr. St. Pierre stated that there are approximately 250
people who are no longer employed at Harrah’s Casino, Joliet.
Chairman Higginbottom asked if the change of hours would have an effect on the amount of
goods purchased from Harrah’s outside vendors.
Mr. St. Pierre stated that it has. Mr. St. Pierre stated that vendors would see a reduction of
receipts from Harrah’s.
Mr. St. Pierre introduced the Board to Carlos Tolosa, Division President for Harrah’s Eastern
Division to address the Board’s concerns regarding the advertising of the Indiana property in
Illinois.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s
Casino, Joliet’s request to change hours of operation to 10:00a.m. – 4:00 a.m., seven
days a week. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS CASINO – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – James
Butler, Corporate Counsel, and Jeff Pfifer, General Manager, were present on behalf of
Empress Casino, Joliet to request approval to change Empress’ hours of operation.
Mr. Butler stated that Empress has made several detailed submissions to Staff. Mr. Butler
stated that staff at Empress has made themselves available to answer questions that Staff may
have had.
Mr. Butler stated that he is reluctant to speak publicly about the actual number of employees
that the change of hours would effect, however, Mr. Butler stated that there are probably
many people thinking numbers are higher than what they actually are. Mr. Butler stated that
wherever Empress could reduce through attrition, they will.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Empress Casino Joliet’s request to change hours of operation to

7

 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 a.m., seven days a week. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ALTON BELLE CASINO – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – James
Butler, Corporate Counselor, and Rich Lauden, General Manager, were present on behalf of
Alton Belle Casino to request approval to change Alton’s hours of operation.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board approve Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino’s request to
change hours of operation to 10:00 am. – 4:00 a.m., seven days a week. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE – PAULA E. EYLAR, VICE PRESIDENT OF INTERNAL AUDIT – KEY
PERSON – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of Paula E. Eylar to request
approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Paula E. Eylar as a Key Person of Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE – KRISTINA KAY O’DONOHUE, INTERNAL AUDITOR – LEVEL ONEDonna More, Attorney, and Kristina O’Donohue were present to request approval as a Level
One Licensee for Ms. O’Donohue.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Kristina Kay O’Donohue as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – FRANK G. SMITH, INTERNAL AUDITOR – LEVEL
ONE – Donna More, Attorney, was present to request approval as a Level One Licensee.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Frank G. Smith as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Dugan seconded the motion.
Member Peterlin refrained from the vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve 26 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 51 applications for an
Occupational License Level 3. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 • In Re The Disciplinary Action of Daisy Martin
Member Peterlin moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on June 17, 2003, the Illinois Gaming Board voted to issue a
disciplinary complaint to revoke the occupational license held by Daisy Martin
based on records obtained from the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Rock Island which
revealed that Martin had a March 11, 2002 for Retail Theft conviction.
WHEREAS, on June 18, 2003, the Board received records from the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Rock Island which revealed that on February 18, 2003 Martin’s
Retail Theft conviction was modified to six months supervision, retroactive to
March 11, 2002.
WHEREAS, based on the foregoing information, Martin does not have a conviction
for Retail Theft that would preclude licensure under section 9(a)(2) of the Riverboat
Gambling Act.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board hereby rescinds its June
17, 2003 motion to issue a disciplinary complaint against Martin.

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Crystal Moore
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Crystal Moore, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and
the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Crystal Moore’s (1) failure to promptly
update her October 30, 2002 arrest for forgery and (2) for providing false
information to police investigators during the course of an investigation.

9

 Further, Member Petelin moved that the Board revoke Crystal Moore’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member
Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:33 P.M. Member Peterlin moved that the Board adjourn. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

10

 