Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
September 14, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on
Thursday, September 13, 2018 in the Conference Room on the 3rd floor of the Michael Bilandic
Building, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a quorum
was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Assistant General Counsel Daniel Gerber, Assistant General Counsel Jared Smith, Assistant
General Counsel Richard Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy
Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Audit and Financial Analysis
Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Administrative Assistant and
Acting Secretary to the Board Alicia Passfield, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Deputy
Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed, and Operations
Officer William Doster.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 1:01 PM. The Board Secretary verified that no
one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.
At 1:04 P.M. Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the
Board discussed matters referenced in the close session agenda.
At 1:19 PM, Member Robinson moved to adjourn the Riverboat closed session meeting and
return to open session. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 1:20 PM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open meeting to Friday, September 14,
2018 at 9:00 AM. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board reconvened in Open Session on Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 9:00 am on the 5 th Floor
of the Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the
following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins and Hector Alejandre.

 APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Dolins moved to approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting of August
1st and 2nd, 2018. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS
The Chairman announced that the November 1st and 2nd, 2018 Board meetings will be held in
Springfield, IL. The Chairman then gave time to Gene O’Shea who spoke and provided the
Board an update regarding the Board’s Self-Exclusion Program and other efforts to help with
problem gambling.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
•
Caesar’s Entertainment Corporation – Refinancing
Member Dolins moved that Caesar’s Entertainment Corporation’s refinancing request be
converted from a final consideration to an initial consideration as a new transaction. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Jonathan D. Eilian – Manager of Des Plaines Development Holdings, LLC and Partial Owner of
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership – Key Person
Member Dolins moved that the Board find Mr. Jonathan D. Eilian suitable for transfer of
ownership pursuant to Riverboat Gambling Rule 235(a), and approve him as a Key Person of the
licensee, Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership, under Rule 222(c)(4). I further move
that the Board approve Mr. Eilian as a Key Person as manager of Des Plaines Development
Holdings, under Rule 222(c)(4). The Board’s finding of suitability for transfer is to be subject to
revocation if the Administrator determines that the terms and conditions of the final transfer are
not materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a/ Harrah’s Joliet Casino Hotel –
Corinne Slinde-Mally – Staff Internal Auditor – Level 1
Member Robinson moved that the Board find Corinne Slinde-Mally suitable as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee for Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a/ Harrah’s Joliet
Casino & Hotel, in her position as Staff Internal Auditor. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

2

 •
Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a/ Harrah’s Metropolis Casino –
Jeffrey Caudle – Surveillance Manager – Level 1
Member Robinson moved that the Board find Jeffrey Caudle suitable as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino/Cruises LLC d/b/a/ Harrah’s Metropolis Casino,
in his position as Surveillance Manager. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
•
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Meredith A. Bluhm-Wolf
Transfer of Ownership Interest from one Trust into a new Trust.
Member Alejandre moved to approve the request submitted by Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino regarding the transfer of less than one percent indirect
ownership interest from the Meredith A. Bluhm-Wolf Non-GST Trust to the Meredith A.
Bluhm-Wolf 2018 Non-GST Trust. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
•
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – Robert Thursby –
Table Games Manager – Level 1
Member Robinson moved that the Board find Robert Thursby suitable as a Level One
Occupational Licensee for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel, in
his position as Table Games Manager. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
•
Ditronics Financial Services LLC – Supplier License Renewal (August)
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Ditronics Financial
Services LLC for a period of four years, retroactive to August 2018, expiring in August 2022,
and find the following individuals and entities suitable as Key Persons:
George James Vasilakos
Virginia Vasilakos
Georges Steven Vasilakos
Vasilakos Family Trust
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

GLP Capital, L.P. – Supplier License Renewal (September)

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of GLP Capital, L.P. for a
period of four years, expiring in September 2022, and find the following individuals and entities
suitable as Key Persons:

3

 Peter Carlino
Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc.
GLP Capital Partners, LLC
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Interblock USA L.C. – Supplier License Renewal (September)

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Interblock USA L.C. for
a period of four years, expiring in September 2022, and find the following individuals and
entities suitable as Key Persons:
Joze Pececnik
John Connelly IV
Elektroncek Group B.V.
Interblock d.d.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board find suitable and approve 154 Level 2 occupational
licenses and 89 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice
of Denial to:
Tiresa Tua
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Requests for Hearing & Requests to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant the request for a hearing submitted by Mr. Carl
Edward Williams. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the request for a hearing submitted by Mr. Stanislaus
Anthony Pasieka. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant Mr. Douglas Lima’s request for hearing. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

4

 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the Occupational License of Stacey Kitchens for
misconduct and failure to follow internal controls while employed at Hollywood Joliet, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved to revoke the Occupational License of Peyton Walker for failure to
follow internal controls while employed at Harrah’s Metropolis, said action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly
filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved to revoke the Occupational License of Chantal McAlister for misconduct
while employed at Harrah’s Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved to fine DiTronics Financial Services LLC $5,000 for violation of rule
241(a)(3) and 110(a)(2). Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
ADJOURN: Member Dolins moved to adjourn. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Richard P. Harlovic, Assistant General Counsel

5

 