STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 1, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—Videoconference: 160 N LaSalle Street, N703, Chicago, Illinois
and One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Springfield, Illinois.

II.

PRESENT

In Chicago, Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board; Michael Coli, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel, and staff members. Participating
via videoconference from Springfield, pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/7(a), John
Hartnett, Chairman of the Board and Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD March 11, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the March 11, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Besson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS
A. Cases with Exceptions.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases. General Counsel Post briefly discussed
each case stating (except where otherwise noted) that AFSCME’s exceptions fail to support overturning the
Administrative Law Judge’s (ALJ) Recommended Decision and Orders (RDO) therefore recommending the Board
affirm each RDO.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-202, 203, 204, 205, 206 (Revenue)-General Counsel Post recommended that the Board
consolidate these cases for the purpose of issuing a single Board decision covering all cases. Member Washington
moved to consolidate the cases. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote. Then General Counsel Post recommended that the Board accept the ALJ’s recommendations. After
discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDOs. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-208 (State Police)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Case No. S-DE-14-209 (Illinois Commerce Commission)-General Counsel Post recommended reversing the RDO,
finding that the Governor lacks authority to designate positions at the ICC, and dismissing the petition. After
discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO and find the designations for exclusion proper. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it with Member Brennwald dissenting.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-211, 212, 225 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-213 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-214 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 Case No. S-DE-14-215 (Revenue)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member Besson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-216 (Department of Corrections)-General Counsel Post recommended that the Board find
exceptions timely filed by AFSCME and by Carol Brand did not warrant reversal of the RDO, that the Board find
additional exceptions tendered by Brand were untimely, and that the designations for exclusion were proper. After
discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the General Counsel’s recommendation. Member Washington seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-217 (Department of Corrections)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-218 (Department of Corrections)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-220 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO with
modifications. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-221 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-222 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
B. Cases without Exceptions
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Case No. S-DE-14-223 (Human Services)-General Counsel Post stated that no party filed exceptions to the RDO
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-RD-14-003 Theresa Kyriazes/ Park Ridge Park District/ Service Employees International Union,
Local 73-General Counsel Post stated that no party filed exceptions to the RDO and asked whether the Board wished
to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-RC-14-043 Illinois Council of Police/ Memorial Park District (Department of Police)-General
Counsel Post stated that no party filed exceptions to the RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
V.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of April, 2014.

2

 