STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 8, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Michael Coli, Member of the
Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General
Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 11, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the May 11, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion—
four in favor, none against—Chairman Zimmerman abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2010. He distributed the report to the
Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-10-052
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Strizak's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ. Member Washington moved to
accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion. After a lengthy
discussion, Member Coli withdrew his second, and Member Washington withdrew his motion. After
additional discussion and inquiry, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's decision except with regard
to petitioned-for employee Davis, and to direct a hearing as to Davis' status as a public employee.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-114
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and recommended that the Board adopt the ALJ's conclusions, but
employ slightly different reasoning. After further explanation by General Counsel Post and discussion
by the Board, Member Hade moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-09-194
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
County of Madison
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Rosenbaum's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to
do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report and updated the Board as to the status of SB2497.
After a short discussion on those topics, the Board reviewed and discussed the agency's FY11 budget
and contemplated various scenarios given its constraints. The Board then questioned whether there was
a need for executive session, concluding that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of July, 2010.

2

 