Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
June 12, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Video – on June 12,
2018, in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a
quorum was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Legal Counsel Daniel Gerber, Legal Counsel Jared Smith, Acting Legal Counsel Richard
Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit and
Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Audit and Financial Analysis Staff Member Tammy Compton,
License Coordinator Robert Burke, Office Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy
Bautista, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Deputy Administrator-Enforcement Frank
Spizzirri. Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed, attended via telephone from the Illinois Gaming
Board’s Springfield office. Thereafter, the Board discussed matters referenced in the closed
session agenda.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 11:40 AM. The Board Secretary verified that no
one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.
At 11:40 A.M. Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the
Board discussed matters referenced in the closed session agenda.
At 12:45 PM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn the video closed session meeting and return to
open session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 12:45 PM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open meeting to June 13, 2018 at 9:00
AM. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
The Board reconvened in Open Session on Wednesday, June 13, 2018 at 9:23 AM on the 5th
floor of the Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the
following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins, and Hector Alejandre.

 APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Alejandre moved the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of May 24, 2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
License Renewals
•

Curo Group, LLC – Renewal of Supplier License

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the supplier license of Curo Group, LLC for a
period of one year, expiring in June 2019. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
•

NRT Technology Corporation – Renewal of Supplier License

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the supplier license of NRT Technology
Corporation for a period of one year, expiring in June 2019. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial License
•

Illinois Interactive Gaming, LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind its May 25, 2017 denial; issue a Terminal Operator
license to Illinois Interactive Gaming, LLC for a term of one year, expiring in June, 2019;
approve a settlement agreement resolving 2017 CH 13232 and delegate to the Administrator
authority to finalize said agreement. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. Member Robinson
voted No. The motion passed 3 to 1.
License Renewals
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a
term of one year, expiring in June 2019:
•
•

AP Gaming LLC d/b/a AP Gaming
Golden Route Operations-Illinois LLC d/b/a Golden Route Illinois

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.

2

 Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of Da Route LLC
for a term of one year retroactive to April 2018, and expiring in April 2019. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved the Board approve the 37 applications for Terminal Handler licenses
that were submitted to the Board since our last meeting. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal
Handlers who were licensed or renewed in June 2017, and who have properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the
Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT APPLICATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve 107 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses for
a period of one year, expiring in June 2019, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to:
o Saini Sales Inc. d/b/a Unique Smoke Shop
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or
renewed in June 2017, and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual
fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules; and
that the Board authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Non-Renewal to the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Aaron B Hicks d/b/a Hixsters Bar & Grill
BEARS SHOWTOWN USA, INC. d/b/a BEARS SHOWTOWN USA
C&F Investment Inc. d/b/a Diamond Jim's
How-Dog, Inc. d/b/a Cactus Country
John's Tavern, INC. d/b/a John's Tavern
TEJ's Sports Connection Inc. d/b/a TEJ's Sports Connection

3

 •
•
•
•
•
•
•

Top Hat Saloon, Inc. d/b/a Bad Kitty's Top Hat Saloon
LAVUE MANAGEMENT CORPORATION d/b/a LAVUE BAR & GRILL
Mexican Honorary Commission d/b/a Mexican Honorary Commission
SMOKE TRAIL BBQ LLC d/b/a SMOKE TRAIL BBQ LLC
Taquerias Olvera, Inc. d/b/a Taquerias Olvera;
LUCKY'S BEEF N DOGS, LLC d/b/a Lucky's Beef N Dogs; and
Sounding Safe, LLC d/b/a The Vault

DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet the Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the retail establishment
licenses of:
•
•

Michael Whitaker, Sr. d/b/a Charlie’s Lounge, and
Blerim Alimi, LLC d/b/a Mama Mia’s

for failing to maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said actions to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining LAN of Champaign, Inc.
d/b/a Goldy’s Bar & Grill $893.39 for operating VGTs without a valid liquor license, said
actions to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
Conduct That Discredits or Tends to Discredit the Illinois Gaming Industry or State of Illinois
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the
establishment licenses of:
•
•

Burbank Food Liquor & Deli Inc. d/b/a/ Burbank Food Liquor & Deli
The Other End, Inc. d/b/a The Other End

for conduct that discredits or tends to discredit the Illinois Gaming Industry, said actions to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed
within that timeframe. The motion carried
Failure to Prevent Underage Access to VGTs
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining the following
locations $5,000

4

 •
•
•
•

Matthew Adrian Chumbler d/b/a Lucky 13;
Damaschke International Inc. d/b/a Lacey’s Place (150703775);
Dawn’s Café, LTD. d/b/a Dawn’s Beach Hut; and
Bull Dog Ale House, Inc., d/b/a Bull Dog Ale House

said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
LITIGATION
Member Dolins moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into an emergency
contract for the service of an Independent Testing Laboratory as needed until such time as an
RFP is issued and a new contract is awarded per such new RFP. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
ADJOURN
Member Dolins moved to adjourn. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista, Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Board

5

 