December 13th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 2:30 PM; Commenced at 2:35 PM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “12/13/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agend

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Kevin Irvine, Andre Youngblood, and Johnny Miller.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Lindsey Graves and Joan Fadayiro

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
November 15th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with six
votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board recessed into Executive Session, pursuant to Sections 2C2, and 2
the Illinois Open Meetings Act. Upon return to Open Session, the Board moved, seconded, and
approved by unanimous vote, Board Agenda Items 4-A, 4-B, and 4-C: an ordinance authorizing the
acquisition (4-A) and payment of relocation expenses arising from such acquisition (4-B) of proper
located at 3330-3344 North Clark Street; and the payment of relocation expenses (4-C) arising fr
acquisition of property located at 3421-3427 North Clark Street, all in Chicago, Illinois, for the Red
Purple Modernization Project, as all were discussed in Executive Session.

BOARD MATTERS: The Board moved, seconded, and approved by unanimous vote, Board Agenda
5-A, a resolution setting the dates of the April and November 2018 Chicago Transit Board
meeting, and the time of the November 2018 meeting; and an ordinance (5-B) appointing membe
the Citizens Advisory Board.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva prese
report. The committeereviewedthe monthly(December)
report on Financeand approvedthe
November 15th, 2017 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Com
agenda items, listed on the Board agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the om
and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

All approved December 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
,
“About CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-119 through 017-1

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”,
December 13th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
1

 NEW BUSINESS: None
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the December 13, 2017
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 