STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 14, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Don Hubert, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John Brosnan, Executive Director; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 24, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the January 24, 2006 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hubert seconded. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to address the administrative actions from January
1 through January 31, 2006 for the Local Panel. Executive Director John Brosnan stated that due to a
computer error, there was no report available. He stated he would have this report at the March 14, 2006
meeting.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Review of Administrative Law Judge Decisions and Orders
L-CA-04-054
Service Employees International Union, Local No. 73/Cook County Recorder of Deeds

The Board heard oral argument in this case. A certified court reporter recorded and transcribed the oral
argument. After oral argument, Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to go into executive session to
discuss the case. Member Sadlowski made the motion to go into executive session, and Member Hubert
seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
Subsequently, the meeting returned to open session. Member Hubert made a motion to remand this case
to Administrative Law Judge Clifford to allow the Respondent, Cook County Recorder of Deeds, an
opportunity to interpose whatever defenses it would have made in response to the amendments to the
complaint, by the Charging Party, Service Employees International Union, Local No. 73, and to
consolidate therewith and hear the closely related complaint in Case No. L-CA-06-009, Service
Employees International Union, Local 73/County of Cook/Cook County Recorder of Deeds, all of which
shall be completed no later than March 24, 2006. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.

 2.

Review of Executive Director’s Orders and Dismissals
L-RC-05-014
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago/Illinois Council of Police/
Firemen and Oilers Union, Local No. 7

General Counsel Zimmerman stated that no exceptions were filed to this decision and asked the Board
members if they wished to review the case on their own motion. The Board declined to do so.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Executive Director distributed an updated "checkbook-style" fiscal report to the Board, prepared by
Board Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand. The Chairman noted the Fiscal Officer's skill at keeping the
agency within its budget. There was also a draft copy of the budget which will go into the Board’s annual
report. The Chairman also discussed the upcoming appropriation hearings; the Senate Appropriations
Committee is scheduled for March 1, 2006, in Springfield, and the House Appropriations Committee is
scheduled for March 8, 2006, in Chicago.

VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hubert made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The
meeting was adjourned.

2

 