STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 13, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Colleen M. Harvey
and Sylvia Rios also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JUNE 8, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the June 8, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from June 1 through June 30, 2010. He distributed the report to the
Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-10-138
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Strizak's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ, but slightly modify some of her
reasoning. Member Hade moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and after discussion, the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-07-175
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/County of DuPage/Sheriff of DuPage County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Harvey reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions
to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and recommended that the Board uphold the ALJ's decision. Member Hade
moved to accept Counsel Harvey's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-04-120
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Bloomington
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to
do so. Additionally, Charging Party, Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee, on January 4, 2010,
filed a motion for attorney's fees pursuant to Section 11(c) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5
ILCS 315 (2008), as amended. Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the motion, and
recommended that the Board grant the fee request in connection with the hearing. Member Coli moved
to accept Counsel Rios' recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion. The motion passed with
four ayes and one nay; Member Kimbrough dissented.
4.
Case No. S-RC-10-198
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this
date. General Counsel Post and the Board discussed the merits of filing a petition for leave to appeal
with the Illinois Supreme Court in Village of Maryville v. Ill. Labor Relations Bd., Docket No. 5-080545, 2010 WL 2672925 (5th Dist. June 29, 2010), rev'g Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor
Council/Village of Maryville, 24 PERI ¶113 (IL LRB-SP 2008) (Case No. S-UC-06-064). The Board
then discussed whether there was a need for executive session and concluded that it was unnecessary at
this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of August, 2010.

2

 