MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
INVESTMENT MEETING NO. 2017-09-01
SEPTEMBER 7, 2017
An Investment Meeting of the Retirement Board of the Municipal Employees’ Annuity
and Benefit Fund was held in the Fund offices on September 7, 2017. The meeting was
called to order at 9:11 a.m.
Roll call:
Trustee Guest
Trustee Johnson
Trustee McMahon
Trustee Keane

Present
Present
Present
Present

A quorum is present.
Additional attendees include the following individuals:
Mr. James Mohler, Executive Director, Ms. Kelly Flannery, Deputy Comptroller (Proxy
for the Vice President), Ms. Sarah Boeckman, Burke, Burns & Pinelli, Mr. Jamie Wesner,
Marquette Associates, Mr. Neil Capps, Marquette Associates, Mr. Steve Yoon,
Investment Analyst and Ms. Stacey Ruffolo, Project Coordinator.
Keeley Asset Management Update
Firm Update, Performance Discussion
Mr. Kevin Chin, CIO Portfolio Manager, Mr. Brian Keeley, CFA, Portfolio Manager and
Mr. Mar Zahorik, CFA, Managing Director reviewed Keeley’s history with the Fundand
its performance since the Fund’s initial investment. Mr. Zahorik also discussed the firm’s
succession plan. Mr. Keeley reviewed the firm’s investment philosophy. Mr. Chin
reviewed the 2016 under-performance in the small cap space.
Cornerstone Update
Firm Update , Fund Organizational Changes
Mr. Carlos Garcia-Tunon, CFA, lead Portfolio Manager, Ms. Therese M. Hernandez,
MacKay shields, and Mr. John W. Akkerman, CFA CAIA, Mac Kay Shields presented an
update on MacKay Shields and its most recent personnel changes
Rock Creek Update
Hedge Fund Market Perspective , MWDBE Landscape Perspective
Ms. Alifia Doriwala and Mr. Chris Barber discussed their perspective on the future
growth of the Hedge Fund Market and the opportunities for MWDBE managers in the
market space.
Marquette Associates
International Small Cap Funding, Stress Test Discussion
Mr. Jamie Wesner of Marquette Associates reviewed the current funding of mandates in
the International Small Cap investments. Based on this review and the advice of the

 consultant and staff, Trustee McMahon made a motion to invest $50 million with Segal
Bryant’s International Small Cap product. Second by Trustee Johnson.
Carried: Ayes – Trustee Guest, Trustee Johnson, Trustee Keane and Trustee McMahon.
Nays – None.
Old Business
Annual Funding Request Revision
Mr. Mohler, Executive Director of the Fund, reviewed requested changes to the annual
Funding request. Based on this review and the concurrence of Counsel, Trustee Johnson
made a motion to accept the changes as presented and re-submit the request to the
Committee on Finance. Seconded by Trustee Johnson.
Carried: Ayes – Trustee Guest, Trustee Johnson and Trustee Guest. Nays – None.

There being no further business to come before the Board, Trustee McMahon made a
motion to adjourn at 11:22 a.m. Seconded by Trustee Johnson.
Carried: Ayes – Trustee Guest, Trustee Johnson and Trustee Guest. Nays – None.

 