STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 7, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of
the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 10, 2012

Chairman Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the January 10, 2012 meeting. Member
Anderson moved to approve the minutes of the January 10, 2012 meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded.
The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report
for the period of time from January 1 to January 31, 2011. He presented the report. Chairman Gierut made a
short presentation outlining a method whereby the agency, by identifying and remedying the choke-points in
its processes, could increase its productivity and effectiveness. At the conclusion thereof, the Board
discussed Chairman Gierut's presentation at length and questioned him regarding various aspects of it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CB-11-018
Janette Watkins/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241

Chairman Gierut recused himself from consideration of the instant matter. General Counsel Post called the
case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July 28, 2011, and an appeal was filed
with a request for oral argument. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal stating that
the Executive Director dismissed the charge because he found no evidence Respondent intentionally took
any action designed to retaliate against Ms. Watkins or due to her status: he found no evidence she was
treated differently than other similarly situated employees and that uncorroborated assertions that Local 241
failed to do enough on Charging Party's behalf were insufficient. General Counsel Post stated that the
evidence here shows Respondent recently filed three grievances on her behalf, one resulting in as complete
relief as any reasonable person could expect. The evidence suggests Charging Party's expectations of her
representative are unreasonable, and certainly exceed the standards of representatives required by the Act.
General Counsel Post recommended that the Board deny oral argument and accept the Executive Director's
dismissal. After discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to affirm the General Counsel's
recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and
the Board passed the motion—two in favor, none against—Chairman Gierut did not participate in the vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-11-024
Barbara Brown-Frazier/ National Nurses Organizing Committee
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on September 28,
2011, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal stating
that the Executive Director found no showing that Charging Party had been treated differently than other
similarly situated employees, or that Respondent's refusal to provide the outcome Charging Party desired was
based on anything other than a good faith assessment of the merits of her claim. General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson

 made a motion to affirm the General Counsel's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal.
Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of March 2012.

2

 