MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
May 17, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, May 17, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois at 10:12 A.M. Present
were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of April 19, 2012. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Christopher N.
Balaban, Vice President of Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Christopher N. Balaban as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Vice President of Finance for Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Alton Gaming Company, d/b/a Alton Argosy Casino – Janice Marie Wickenhauser,
Director of Human Resources – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that the
Board approve Janice Marie Wickenhauser as an Occupational Licensee Level One in
the position of Director of Human Resources for Alton Gaming Company, d/b/a Alton
Argosy Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – Katie Robinson,
Owner – Key Person – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the Board
approve Katie Robinson as an Owner and Key Person for Rock Island Boatworks,

 Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – LisAnn Jacobs, Owner
– Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve LisAnn Jacobs as an Owner and Key Person for Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – Margaret
Reichenbach – Owner - Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that the
Board approve Margaret Reichenbach as an Owner and Key Person for Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel
and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino – Eileen A. Moore, Regional President of Caesars Entertainment Operating
Company, Inc. – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to
approve Eileen A. Moore as a Key Person of Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino as Regional President of
Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Luis A.
Pinedo - Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved to approve Luis A. Pinedo, who intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming
& Entertainment, LLC through Casino Investors, LLC.
Member Holewinski further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules
to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings,
LLC and the issuance of interests to Casino Investors, LLC consistent with the
financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 ●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Luis A.
Pinedo – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved to approve Luis A. Pinedo as a Key Person of Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
●

United States Playing Card Company – Marc A. Hill, President – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to
approve Marc A. Hill as a Key Person of United States Playing Card Company in his
position as President. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Licensure and Denial, Levels 2 and 3
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board find suitable and approve 66 applications for an Occupational License, Level
2 and 141 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Further, I move that
the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the following individuals:
•
•

Yao J. Aoussi; and
Thomas E. Carmon.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Robert Gil, Jr. and Ayizuru Mudagire – Occupational Licensees
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that the
Board issue Disciplinary Complaints against Robert Gil, Jr. and Ayizuru Mudagire
for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board and that the
Board revoke the occupational licenses of these individuals, said actions to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the dates of service of the Complaints unless the Licensees
file Answers to the Complaints or pay fines within that time period. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 At 10:34 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 