STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 11, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member
of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Member Hade chaired the meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETINGS

A. Member Hade called for approval of the minutes of the April 13, 2010 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion—
three in favor, none against—Member Kimbrough abstained.
B. Member Hade called for approval of the corrected minutes from the February 23, 2010 meeting.
Member Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed
the motion—three in favor, none against—Member Kimbrough abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Member Hade asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2010. He distributed the report to the Board
and summarized its highlights. The Board examined and discussed the report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-196
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Member Hade called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Rios' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended
that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ. After discussion, Member Washington moved
to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-174
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-07-257
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/City of Chicago Heights
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-RC-10-049
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of Barrington Hills
Member Hade called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on March 1,
2010, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and
recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the executive director's order. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports. After a short discussion, the Board
concluded that there was no need for executive session.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hade called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of June, 2010.

2

 