STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 8, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board;
Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board (participated by telephoneconference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan, Sharon B. Wells,
Colleen M. Harvey, and Ellen M. Strizak acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JUNE 10, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the June 10, 2008 meeting. Member Coli moved
to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice
vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from June 1 through June 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-08-037
Wood Dale Professional Firefighters Association, Local 3594, International Association of Fire
Fighters/Wood Dale Fire Protection District

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and Charging Party's motion for sanctions, and
recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Kazanjian's Recommended Decision
and Order (RDO), and resolve through discussion, whether to grant Charging Party's motion for sanctions,
and if granted, the type of sanctions to award. After a lengthy discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the
ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote. After further discussion, Member Coli moved to grant Charging Party's motion for sanctions and levy
a five thousand dollar fine against Respondent. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RD-08-008
Lori J. Sanson/County of Macoupin/American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 3.
Case No. S-UC-06-007
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Hazel Crest Park District
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-RC-07-103
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 28/City of St. Charles
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party timely filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and
since under Section 1200.135(b)(1) of the Rules "[a] party not filing timely exceptions waives its right to
object to the Administrative Law Judge's recommended decision and order," inquired as to whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-08-103
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local No. 714/Village of East Hazel Crest
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a deferral to
arbitration on May 7, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells briefly detailed her review
of the matter and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Hade moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-08-157
Elitha Brown/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
April 28, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the matter and recommended
that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept
the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that Fiscal Officer Hildebrand will be emailing the most recent fiscal report to the
Board near the end of the week, and reported that the legislature will be in special session beginning July 9.
After a short discussion, the Board questioned whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it
was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of August, 2008.

2

 