Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
June 28, 2017
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of May 25, 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll
call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATORS
Initial Licenses


Golden Route Operations – Illinois LLC d/b/a Golden Route Illinois

Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Golden Route
Operations – Illinois LLC d/b/a Golden Route Illinois for a term of one year, expiring in June,
2018, as the applicant has demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure. Member
Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals


AP Gaming LLC

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of AP Gaming
LLC for a term of one year, expiring in June 2018. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS & SUPPLIERS
License Renewals
o Curo Group, LLC – Renewal of Supplier's License; and
o NRT Technology Corporation – Renewal of Supplier's License
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Supplier's licenses of Curo Group, LLC and
NRT Technology Corporation for a period of one year, expiring in June 2018. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
o SUZOHAPP Gaming Solutions, LLC – Renewal of Distributor's License
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the Distributor's license of SUZOHAPP
Gaming Solutions, LLC for a period of one year, expiring in June 2018. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.

 TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved the Board approve (47) Terminal Handler licenses and (1)
Technician license, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:
1. Will Centeno
2. Mykael Shaun Ash; and
3. Robert William Jones
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals - (second motion)
Member Dunn moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal Handlers
who were licensed or renewed in June 2016, and who have properly updated their applications,
timely paid their annual fees and remained in compliance with the requirements of the Video
Gaming Act and the Board's Rules, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Nonrenewal to Christine C. Holian. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve 95 Video Gaming Establishment
Licenses, for a period of one year, expiring in June 2018, and authorize the Administrator
to issue Notices of Denial to:





Bobby McBride d/b/a Hollywood Lounge
PIG DOG PUB INC. d/b/a Pig Dog Pub; and
GMG Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Pub 29
COZY WORLD INC. d/b/a NEW COZY KOREAN RESTAURANT

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals - (second motion)
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve the renewal of licenses held by Retail
Establishments, Truck Stop Establishments, and Veteran and Fraternal Establishments
previously licensed or renewed in June 2016, that have properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the
requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules, and also authorize the Administrator to
issue a notice of non-renewal to:


1807 Partners, Inc. d/b/a IL Poveretto

2

 Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call
vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Dunn moved that the Board grant the request for a hearing submitted by
PHASE IV - D, INC. d/b/a TRUDY'S CAFE CASH ISLAND since it has established
a prima facie case for a hearing. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by
Omega Bar & Grill, LTD. d/b/a Omega Bar & Grill LTD since it fails to establish a
prima facie case for a hearing. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind its May 2017 establishment license
application denial, and grant an establishment license to Symerton Tap, LLC d/b/a
Symerton Tap LLC. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of Illinois Interactive
Gaming, LLC's hearing request until the next regular Board meeting. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant Neatly Twisted LLC d/b/a OGRIFFS
MICROBREWERY AND GRILL leave to reapply for a retail establishment license.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that the Board grant Lahey's Lounge Inc. d/b/a Lahey's Lounge
leave to reapply for a retail establishment license. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Misrepresentations/False Statements and Non-Cooperation
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
terminal handler license of Joseph Sobin for providing false information to a Board
agent, and for failing to cooperate with a Board investigation, this action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within
that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously
by roll call vote.

3

 Theft from Employer
Member Dunn moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the terminal
handler licenses of Sharon Lynne Larson and Nimbeth Herrera, for theft, said actions
to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Respond to Administrator-Issued Disciplinary Complaint
Member Dolins moved the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the terminal
handler license of William Aloysius Beckmann for failing to disclose an arrest, and not
responding to a Board issued Disciplinary Complaint, or paying a Board issued fine, said
actions to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless an
Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Meet Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Robinson moved the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of EATS & BEATS ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, INC. d/b/a
JACKIE'S SLOTS & SHOTS for failing to notify the Board of the arrest and criminal
conviction of its owner, said actions to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaints, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet the Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Robinson moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the retail
establishment licenses of:
 MS. D'S KITCHEN BAR & GRILL INC. d/b/a MS. D'S KITCHEN
 Perna's Pizza, Inc. d/b/a Perna's Pizza
 Fisholee Enterprises Inc. d/b/a Nero's Pizza and Pub
 Dutch Hollow Barn Corp. d/b/a Dutch Hollow Barn
 Stimac Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Stimac's Restaurant and Bar
 Dos Banditos, Inc. d/b/a Charlie R's Steak House; and
 Janice M. Buttram d/b/a Jan's Bar & Grill
for failing to maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said actions to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless an Answer is properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of HORSESHOE SALOON, INC. d/b/a Horseshoe Saloon, for
its owner's interference with the approved and continuing operation of terminals in the

4

 establishment, this action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,
unless a $1,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call
vote.
Failure to Prevent Underage Access to VGTs
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the retail
establishment licenses of:
 27 Irving Park, LLC d/b/a Horseshoe Inn
 THE BACK ROOM, INC. d/b/a Cafe Amici
 Anna's Cafe Place LLC d/b/a Anna's Cafe Place LLC (130706234)
 ELITE CAFE & BILLIARDS, INC. d/b/a ELITE BILLIARDS
 SIMONE CORP. d/b/a BELL LIQUOR & TAP
 LEISERV, LLC d/b/a Brunswick Zone – Niles (160701964); and
 Nami99 Inc. d/b/a Sway Bar
for permitting persons under the age of 21 to access, use or play video gaming terminals,
said actions to take effect 21 days from the dates of service of the Complaints, unless the
establishment pays a fine of $5,000 or properly files an Answer within that timeframe.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Provide Safe Gaming Location
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the retail
establishment licenses of:
 Club 30, LLC d/b/a Jag's Bar;
 Breakout Inc. d/b/a Breakout Billiards;
 DESPERADO BAR AND GRILL LLC d/b/a DESPERADO BAR AND
GRILL LLC; and
 Mucho Gusto LLC d/b/a N-Zuri
for conducting video gaming operations in a manner that poses a threat to public health
and safety; for reflecting adversely on the security and integrity of the video gaming
industry in Illinois and/or employing persons of notorious and unsavory reputations; and
otherwise failing to maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said actions to
take effect 21 days from the dates of service of the Complaints, unless an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Maintain Valid Liquor License
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the retail
establishment license of Stacy`s 45, Incorporated d/b/a Stacy`s 45, said actions to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly

5

 filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
Associations with Persons with a Criminal History
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the retail
establishment license of LISA FRISBY ENTERPRISES, LLC d/b/a JAK'S GAMING
CAFE, due to the criminal history of a person of significant interest and control, said
actions to take effect 21 days from the dates of service of the Complaints, unless an
Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Settlements of Disciplinary Complaints
Member Dunn Based on staff's recommendation, as well as information provided by the
licensee, I move that the Board rescind the Disciplinary Complaint voted by the Board to
be issued at its May 2017 meeting to Illinois Gaming Investors LLC. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to enter into
settlement agreements with, and to administratively dismiss the complaints against the
following licensees or to provide the settlement agreements to the administrative law
judge for disposition:






B&R Just One More, LLC d/b/a Just One More (DC-V-17-52)
BEVERLY BRINK, INC. d/b/a THE OFFICE (DC-V-17-73)
Accel Entertainment Gaming, LLC (DC-V-17-37)
LUCKY ME, LLC d/b/a LUCKY ME (DC-V-17-45)
AUNT BETTY'S BARBEQUE & SPIRITS, LLC d/b/a AUNT B'S PLACE
(DC-V-17-43); and
 CHAMPAIGN RENTALS, LLC d/b/a FOOD & FUN EMPORIUM (DC-V17-44)
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:00 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Dolins seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 