STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on January 8, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted
as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 11, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the December 11, 2007 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from October 1 through December 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. L-CA-04-052
1.
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/City of Chicago

Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the City's exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. The Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ's
determinations and the issues raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, Member Sadlowski moved
to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-07-025
Charles Jackson/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
November 30, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Sadlowski
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher observed that the legislature was back in session as of this date, and noted that interim
budget cuts may be a possibility. After a short discussion, the Board questioned whether there was a need for
executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.

 VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 20th day of February, 2008.

2

 