STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 9, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:45 A.M.— by video conference at 160 N LaSalle Street, 7th Floor, Room
N703, Chicago and Rock River Room, One Natural Resources Way, Springfield

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Keith Snyder, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah Kerley,
Deputy General Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from the Board’s Springfield office.
John Samolis, Member of the Board; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General
Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from
the Chicago location.
Prior to the meeting, Board Member Washington requested to be allowed to attend by video conferencing due to
personal illness, pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/7. After considering the request, Member Coli moved to allow it. Member
Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 12, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the January 12, 2016, meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case Nos. S-UC-15-093 and S-UC-15-096
Oak Lawn Professional Firefighters Union, Local 3405, IAFF/Village of Oak Lawn

Chairman Hartnett called the case. General Counsel Nelson noted that no party filed exceptions to Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) Hamburg-Gal’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to
review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.

Case Nos. S-UC-14-006 and S-UC-12-034
Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLA/Secretary of State

Chairman Hartnett called the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that the Union filed a request for oral argument.
General Counsel Nelson asked whether the Board wished to approve this request. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to grant the request for oral argument. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.

Case No. S-CB-15-034
Irene Alba-Hernandez/Chicago Newspaper Guild, Local 34071

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the case to the Board. General
Counsel Nelson stated that Charging Party filed an unfair labor practice charge alleging that Respondent violated
Section 10(b) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and Respondent’s response. After her
presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board remand the case for further investigation. After
discussion, Member Coli moved to remand the case for further investigation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss minutes of
meetings lawfully closed under the Open Meetings Act, for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes and
semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(21). Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Samolis made a motion to leave executive session.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a
motion to return to open session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VII.

OTHER BOARD ACTIONS

Member Snyder moved to approve executive session minutes from the August 11, 2015 and October 6, 2015 state
panel meetings. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. Member
Snyder then made a motion to keep all executive session minutes closed. Member Samolis seconded. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of March, 2016.

2

 