MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the December 11, 2014 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature; as such, they
are subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call.
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair), Patrick McFadden, Diahann Goode
Brent Lewandowski and Sam Richardson

Nickol Hackett, Executive Director; Staff: Rachelle
Howliet, Brenda Deming
Abin Kuriakose, Commissioner Gainer’s Office

Public Comment.
Trustee Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee. There being no public
comment, the meeting continued.
1.

Review and Consideration of the October 2, 2014 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes.

It was moved by Trustee Lewandowski and seconded by Trustee Goode to approve the minutes.

2. Administrative Report
Ms. Deming and Ms. Howliet reported on open enrollment attendance and the general trend of
movement to the Choice Plan. Additionally an update was provided on the UHC implementation and a
projected ID card mailing date was communicated as 12/22/14. Ms. Deming reported that staff would be
County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 attending a training meeting with UHC’s Medical Management office.
Ms. Deming then reported on the results of a Wellness Survey administered at the open enrollment
meetings. The report outlined members various health interest areas and how they would best like to
engage in health promotion programs. A majority of survey respondents indicated that they were
interested in attending an onsite event rather than a web based program. A preliminary planning meeting
was held on December 2nd, where information was shared with UHC on member’s top health conditions
and cost drivers. It was suggested that the first year focus include biometric screenings and education on
diabetes, heart health and preventing kidney disease.

3. Member Payment Issue
During an audit of member records it was discovered that four member’s health insurance deductions
had stopped being taken from their annuity checks due to a computer system error, the error being
corrected going forward. Ms. Deming explained the issue and impact on these members, and asked the
Trustees for a recommendation of whether the Fund should attempt to collect back premiums. The
Trustees agreed that no back premiums should be collected.
4. Planning Focus for 2015
Ms. Deming presented a preliminary Health Benefit Committee Agenda for 2015 for review and
discussion. It was agreed that the committee would review a report on individual Medicare Advantage
Plans. The focus of the report will be on what types of products are available to members and how they
differ from the Fund’s medical plan choices.
Trustee Lewandowski requested that the committee revisit an additional plan offering for members
under age 65, a higher deductible medical plan. The Trustees agreed that this could be a part of the work
plan for 2015.
The prescription drug plan was discussed, and it was agreed that the committee should explore
opportunities for expense reduction as alternatives to the current Medicare RDS program. This could
include Employer Group Waiver Plans and other possible alternatives. The Trustees requested that the
Fund work with CVS directly on this analysis.
Additional analysis for the year will include a comparison of program statistics from the 2014 year to
2015 results under the UHC contract to determine possible areas of cost savings beyond what was
negotiated.
4. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee Lewandowski and seconded by Trustee Herrera to adjourn the meeting.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 