MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JUNE 17, 1993
AURORA, ILLINOIS

A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on June 17, 1993
in the Copley Theater, 18 East Galena Boulevard, Aurora, Illinois. The meeting
was called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and notice was timely given to
each Board Member and to the general public in conformity with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, Chapter 102, Paragraph 42.02, Illinois Revised Statutes.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr.,
Chairman and Board Members William J. Chamblin, J. Thomas Johnson, and Robert F.
Vickrey. Board Member Gayl S. Pyatt was absent.
Also in attendance were the Honorable David Pierce, Mayor of Aurora;
Administrator Morton E. Friedman, Deputy Administrators J. Thomas Hutchison,
Joseph McQuaid and Marcy Wolf; Chief Legal Counsel Donna B. More, Executive
Assistant Linda K. Mucahey; members of the media and the general public.
Chairman Kunkle called the meeting to order at 10:55 A.M.
The first order of business before the Board concerned Hollywood Casino Aurora. Chairman Kunkle recognized the Administrator.
Mr. Friedman requested authorization of the Board to conduct a Final
Practice Gaming Excursion. Mr. Hutchison, Mr. McQuaid, Ms. Wolf and Ms.
Mulcahey reviewed the statutory and regulatory elements that had been met by the
applicant. They noted that electronic gaming devices had been tested, that
surveillance systems had been reviewed, the internal controls had been reviewed
and approved by staff and the outside auditors, the affirmative action efforts
by the applicant had exceeded the local labor market in employment and that the
Department of Rehabilitation Services had reviewed the accessibility of the
casino vessels for handicap accessibility. The Administrator noted that the
vessels had been certificated by the United States Coast Guard.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to conduct a
Final Practice Gaming Excursion with respect to the application received from
Hollywood Casino - Aurora and that upon successful completion, the Administrator
was authorized to issue a Temporary Operating Permit. Mr. Chamblin seconded the
motion.
Under discussion of the motion, Chairman Kunkle noted that the applicant
was a model example of what the Riverboat Gambling Act was intended to produce
by way of economic development and commitment to a local community. There being
no further discussion, the Chairman called for the yeas and nays by oral roll
call, to wit:
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Chamblin:
Johnson:
Vickrey:
Chairman:

Aye
Aye
Aye
Aye

The motion was approved 4-0.

 There being no further business to come before the Board and without
objection, the Board adjourned the Special Meeting at 11:04 A.M.

Respectfully submitted,

_____________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 