MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
August 31, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday August 31, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 9:43 A.M.
Present were Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson and
Member Steve Dolins. Member Thomas Dunn participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of July 20, 2016. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS –
Chairman Tracy commented on the Casino mall court case that Hometown was appealing the
Judge's decision. The Chairman also commented on the need for an SEP program for video
gaming.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
The Administrator stated that there are 5,616 locations with 24,023 VGTs. The Administrator
also stated that a revision to the Inducement policy is being considered. The existing policy is
still in place.
BOARD POLICY ITEM


Proposed Amendment to Video Gaming Rule Subpart H

Member Alejandre moved to amend Subpart H by adding a new Section 815 of the Board’s
Rules on video gaming by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Request for Terminal Operator License


LH 1, LLC

 Member Dolins moved to issue a Terminal Operator license to LH 1, LLC, as the applicant has
demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure, for a term of one year, expiring in
August 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.


RCW Gaming, Inc.

Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Terminal Operator license
application of RCW Gaming, Inc. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals


Donico Gaming, LLC

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of Donico
Gaming, LLC for a term of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
o American Vending Sales, Inc. – Distributor License Renewal
Member Dolins moved to renew the Distributor License of American Vending Sales, Inc., for a
period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. – Manufacturer and Distributor License
Renewals
Member Dolins moved to renew the Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses of Aristocrat
Technologies, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o Bally Gaming, Inc. – Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier License
Renewals
Member Robinson moved to renew the Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier Licenses of
Bally Gaming, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o H. Betti Industries, Inc. – Distributor License Renewal

2

 Member Alejandre moved to renew the Distributor License of H. Betti Industries, Inc. for a
period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o IGT – Manufacturer and Distributor License Renewals
Member Robinson to renew the Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses of IGT for a period of
one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o Konami Gaming, Inc. – Manufacturer and Distributor License Renewal
Member Dolins moved to renew the Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses of Konami
Gaming, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
o JCM American Corporation – Supplier License Renewal
Member Alejandre move to renew the Supplier License of JCM American Corporation for a
period of one year, expiring in August 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Disassociation Pursuant to Board Rule 795
Member Alejandre moved to issue a notice of disassociation to Dearborn Gaming, LLC,
ordering it to disassociate from Pasquale Dublino, said disassociation to become effective 21
days from the date of service of the notice, unless an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve 70 Terminal Handler licenses and 3
Technician licenses. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved to approve the renewal of the Technicians and Terminal Handlers
previously licensed or renewed in August 2015 who properly updated their applications, timely
paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the Act and
the Board's Rules. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Video Gaming Location License - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 124 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, valid
for a period of one year, expiring in August 2017, and authorize the Administrator to
issue Notices of Denial to:
o KHO Corporation d/b/a Knuckle Hedz Bar & Grill
o Johnny Dollar's Inc. d/b/a Johnny Dollar's
o Goals Indoor Sports, LTD. d/b/a Goals Indoor Sports
o Smith Beverages, Inc. d/b/a 21 Club
o Ladd's Food Mart, Inc. d/b/a Double Take Bar
o J&J Trainor, Inc. d/b/a J&J's Tavern
o Oswego Petroleum Inc. d/b/a Oswego Petroleum
o Panino's Italian Sandwiches & Crab Shack, LLC d/b/a Panino's Italian
Sandwiches & Crab Shack
o Alycent LLC d/b/a Margaritas Restaurant and Lounge
o Rick and Amy Kaufman d/b/a The Ice Bucket
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the truck stop establishment license application of
Graham C-Stores Co. d/b/a Countryside Quick Stop. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal and Non-Renewal of locations (second motion)
Member Robinson moved to approve the renewal of the Retail Establishments, Truck Stops,
Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or renewed in August of 2015, that
have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained
compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules, and I move to authorize the
Administrator to issue a notice of non-renewal to:
 Smikit Corporation d/b/a Kelly's Irish Saloon.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing and Request to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved to deny the requests for hearing submitted by JP Petroleum, Inc.,
Taco Stan's LLC and Shabbir Nooruddin, as the requests did not establish a prima facie case
for a hearing and otherwise failed to comply with Rule 615. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 Member Dolins moved that the Board grant Mulligans of Rockford, Inc. leave to reapply for an
establishment license. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Request for Waiver
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the Request for Waiver of Section 25 submitted
by Yellow Brick Road Bars, Inc. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Failure to Timely Notify Administrator


Gold Rush Amusements, Inc. d/b/a Gold Rush Gaming

Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the terminal operator
license of Gold Rush Amusements, Inc. d/b/a Gold Rush Gaming for failing to notify the
Administrator that a VGT had been burglarized and rendered inoperable, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed or a
fine of $5,000 is paid within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Misrepresenting Information to and Obstructing Board Agents' Lawful Activities


Backwaters Bar & Grill, Inc., d/b/a Backwaters Bar & Grill

Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Backwaters Bar & Grill, Inc., d/b/a Backwaters Bar & Grill for violations of the Video
Gaming Act and the Board's Rules, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Conduct Undermining Board Authority


Villa Napoli, L.T.D. d/b/a Villa Napoli

Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Villa Napoli, L.T.D. d/b/a Villa Napoli for violations of the Video Gaming Act and the
Board's Rules, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 Just Cause
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Terminal
Handler license of Bryan Austin Adams for engaging in conduct that discredits or tend to
discredits or adversely reflect on the integrity of the gaming industry in Illinois, including failing
to comply with the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Grapevine Wine & Martini Bar, LLC d/b/a Grapevine Wine & Martini Bar, for failing to
maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Settlements of Board issued Disciplinary Complaints
Member Alejandre moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with William Baldock, d/b/a Willy's Drive In, and authorize legal
counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for
disposition of DC-V-16-32. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with DJ's Pub and Grill, Inc., d/b/a DJ's Pub & Grill, and authorize
legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for
disposition of DC-V-16-31. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with The Sock Sports Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a The Sock Sports Bar &
Grill, and authorize legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the
Administrative Law Judge for disposition of DC-V-16-69. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Rescission of DC-V-16-36 (Bally Gaming, Inc.)
Member Alejandre moved to rescind the Disciplinary Complaint issued to Bally Gaming, Inc. in
April 2016 and authorize Staff to administratively close the matter. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 Final Board Actions
Member Dolins moved that on his review of the record of the proceedings, including the July 26,
2016 Recommendation to the Illinois Gaming Board provided by Administrative Law Judge
John E. White, I move that the Board issue a Final Board Order pursuant to Board Rule 790
revoking the Truck Stop Establishment License of Martin & Bayley, Inc. d/b/a Huck's Food
and Fuel for failing to meet the qualifications for licensure as set out in DC-V-15-39. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:41 A.M. Member Robinson motioned to adjourn and Member Dolins seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 