STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on December 12, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 12:30 P.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Joint Panel Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; Michael Hade,
Member of the State Panel; Charles Hernandez, Member of the State Panel; Rex Piper, Member of the
State Panel; Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Local Panel, John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 14, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the November 14, 2006 meeting. Member
Hade made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board approved the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.

IV.

BOARD ACTIONS

The Chairman distributed the year-to-date fiscal report, the report on estimated year-end account
balances, and the "actual v. budgeted" year-to-date report, prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Chairman and Board members then briefly discussed the agency's fiscal reports. The Chairman
reported regarding legislative matters, but noted that there was nothing thus far, that had any direct impact
on the agency. The Chairman, Board members, and staff then engaged in a lengthy discussion of
caseloads, staffing, and ideas and suggestions to improve casehandling.

V.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Hade made a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss personnel matters. Member Piper
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of
the discussion, Member Hade made a motion to leave Executive Session. Member Coli seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Hade then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote. Member Hade made a motion to discharge the Board's general counsel, pending an offer
of resignation, and paying her until January 31, 2007, if allowed by the State of Illinois. Member
Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed it by a vote of four in favor, one against, and one
pass.

VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Coli seconded the motion. The Board
adjourned the meeting.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, this 11th day of December, 2007.

 