Minutes of Special Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
February 14, 1992
Des Plaines, Illinois

A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 9:00 a.m. on
February 14, 1992 at the Board's Des Plaines, Illinois offices. The meeting was
called pursuant to previous action of the Board in establishing it's Regular
Meeting schedule and notice was duly and timely given to each Board Member and
to the general public in conformity with Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr.,
Chairman and Members William J. Chamblin, J. Thomas Johnson and Raymond C.
Niepert. Also in attendance were Administrator Morton E. Friedman, Deputy
Administrators J. Thomas Hutchison, Joseph Mc Quaid and Marcy L. Wolf; Chief
Counsel Donna B. More; other Board staff, the media and the general public.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at 9:10
A.M.
The first order of business was the approval of the minutes of the Special
Meeting of the Board held November 19, 1991. There being no corrections,
additions or deletions offered by members, the minutes were approved without
objection.
The next order of business concerned establishing a regular meeting
schedule for calendar year 1992. It was determined that the members would
discuss the schedule against personal calendars during a closed session.
The next order of business was a presentation made by the City of Moline,
Illinois. The Chairman recognized Mr. Louis Garippo, attorney for Renew Moline,
Incorporated.
Mr. Garippo presented the position of the City of Moline in their desire
to have a gaming enterprise found suitable for licensing in that city. He told
the members that the Board should act to deny a finding of suitability with
respect to Arch View Casino Cruises, Incorporated so that the two applicants who
wished to locate in the City of Moline could be considered.
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Garippo if he felt that the Riverboat Gambling
Act allowed the Board to consider applications filed after the statutory
deadlines imposed on applicants for the first and second round filing periods.
Mr. Garippo responded that the Act provided that applications could be filed
with the Board at anytime by January 1 of the year preceding the year in which
the enterprise wished to begin operations. Mr. Garippo also pointed out that
the Act states that the Board may issue licenses. He noted that the Board is
not mandated to award licenses. The Chairman next recognized Honorable Allen
McCaulley, Mayor of the City of Moline, Illinois.
Mayor McCaulley told the Board that the City of Moline wanted its own
enterprise licensed and located in Moline, not a shared license with another
enterprise from another community. He stated that the city's plan for
riverfront development required a separate licensee to provide revenue support.
He noted that one of the Moline applicants, Sahara Resorts, had recently stated

 that they would provide a $5 million bond to the city to guarantee the
construction of a 300 room hotel and theme park. The Mayor introduced Mr. Steve
Hyman and Jay Pressler, of Renew Moline, who provided the Board with details of
Moline's riverfront development plan. They noted that $50 million would be
invested in the Renew Moline project. Mayor McCaulley concluded the
presentation stating he would submit a revenue sharing plan to the Board in the
near future that would benefit both the cities of Moline and Rock Island. There
was no further discussion.
The next order of business was a presentation by the Mayor of the City of
East St. Louis. The Chairman recognized Mr. H. C. Milford, Director of Economic
Development for the City of East St. Louis, who noted that Mayor Gordon Bush had
not yet arrived but would begin the city's presentation nevertheless.
Mr. Milford introduced East St. Louis city officials. He told the Board
that riverboat gambling was the catalyst for economic development in East St.
Louis. He noted that proceeds from riverboat gambling would be the primary
source of funds to repay loans granted to the city by the State of Illinois.
Mr. Milford introduced Mr. Ernest Clay, Associate Professor of Architecture,
University of Illinois, who discussed the riverfront plans for East St. Louis.
The Chairman asked for questions and recognized Member Johnson.
Mr. Johnson asked questions stemming from a letter that all members of the
Board had received from Continental Grain Company concerning the proposed
docksite. Mr. Milford responded that he was aware of the letter and advised the
Board that Continental Grain was in the process of relocating their facility and
noted that the proposed docksite for Arch View Casino Cruises was within one
mile of the preferred East St. Louis docksite.
Next Mr. Ellis Mitchell, City Manager spoke to the board regarding future
plans for the administration of city government. He presented a City Council
Resolution that had been recently adopted expressing support for applicant Arch
Paddle Boat Company.
Mr. Johnson observed that at the October 25, 1991 meeting, Arch View
Casino Cruises, Incorporated had told the Board that locating an enterprise in
Sauget would enhance the opportunity for a successful East St. Louis operator.
Mr. Johnson asked whether the representatives of the City of East St. Louis
agreed with that assessment. In response, Mr. Mitchell stated that he believed
that the City of East St. Louis will be able to attract all the clientele needed
for a successful operation. Mr. Milford, however, stated that it was important
that an East St. Louis enterprise be allowed to operate without competition for
a period of time to establish itself. Chairman Kunkle asked about the City's
opinion regarding the proposed revenue sharing plan offered by Arch View and
whether there was a sufficient market in the area to support both enterprises.
Mr. Milford responded that the City preferred having one enterprise in East St.
Louis established before any others. The Chairman asked whether the City of
East St. Louis had considered any form of revenue sharing. Mr. Milford
responded, no.
The Honorable Gordon Bush, Mayor of the City of East St. Louis, joined the
discussion. Mayor Bush urged the Board to oppose all applications until after
an enterprise in East St. Louis is operational. He noted the the City had
placed its future ability to repay state loans solely on receipts received from
gaming. Member Niepert asked about concerns he had heard regarding controlling
criminal activity at the docksite. Mayor Bush responded that the location of
the docksite was in a remote area of the city and would be a secured area. Mr.

 Niepert asked how much time was necessary for an East St. Louis enterprise to be
operational before other applications should be considered. Mayor Bush
responded that he was unable to respond specifically. Mr. Niepert asked what
the operational target date for Arch Paddle could be. Mr. Milford stated July,
1992. The Chairman asked whether the applicant had begun talks with the U.S.
Coast Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers? Mr. Milford stated that those
discussions were already underway.
At this point, Mr. John Janicik, attorney for Arch Paddle Boat Company and
Mr. Charles Bidwell, III President and one of the applicant's investors joined
the discussion. Mr. Johnson asked whether they felt locating an enterprise in
Sauget would have a negative impact on the success of the Arch Paddle operation.
Mr. Bidwell and Mr. Janicik responded that they felt there would be very little
impact. Mr. Janicik requested to clarify the record and stated that Arch Paddle
was unable to provide a projected operational date.
Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Friedman when the Board might expect receiving the
results of Arch Paddle's background investigation. Mr. Friedman responded that
April, 1992 would be the earliest that the investigation could be completed.
There was no further discussion.
At 10:35 A.M. the Chairman recessed the Board for a ten minute break.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened at 10:45 A.M.
The next order of business concerned the pending owners application
received from Arch View Casino Cruises, Incorporated. The Chairman recognized
Mr. Michael Ficaro, attorney for the applicant.
Mr. Ficaro presented the application and the reasons the Board should find
the application suitable for licensing. He stated that the Riverboat Gambling
Act required the Board to take action on the application without reference to
any other application that had been filed with the Board after January 1, 1991.
He noted the Act provided that the Board was mandated to take prompt action to
approve or deny all owner applications. Mr. Ficaro stated that the Board's
inaction had cost the State of Illinois one-third of a year in revenues that
would have been collected.
Mr. Ficaro said that the Arch View applicant was 100% financed and ready
to implement the application and financial plan when granted a finding of
suitability. He noted that no other current applicant could be considered to be
in competition with Arch View unless that application was filed on or before
January 1, 1991. He additionally noted that the Board had not formally
determined whether additional applications could be accepted or investigated.
He suggested that the Board was unable to consider further applications as
competing with Arch View.
Reviewing the Act, Mr. Ficaro stated that Arch View had met the statutory
requirements mandated for an applicant to be found suitable for licensing as an
owner. He reviewed elements of the application as they related to economic
development and tourism, potential revenues that would flow to the state, the
proposed revenue sharing plan for ten local communities and the individual
qualifications of George Middleton, the sole investor of Arch View. Mr. Ficaro
concluded by urging the Board to find the application suitable for licensing.
The Chairman asked for discussion and recognized Member Johnson.

 Mr. Johnson asked whether the term "economic development" was limited to
development of an enterprise alone, or if the Board was to look at potential
ancillary development of the area in which the enterprise would operate? Mr.
Ficaro responded the the Act contemplated the term in two ways; tax revenue to
be derived and tourism. Mr. Johnson asked whether it was appropriate to locate
a licensee in a community of 200 population. Mr. Ficaro responded that the
General Assembly had contemplated the issue and had specifically authorized the
Board to grant a license to a community with a population of less than 2,000.
Mr. Johnson asked whether Arch View had secured a vessel. Mr. Ficaro
responded that construction of the proposed vessel had not commenced due to the
Board's decision to delay consideration of the application. Mr. Ficaro noted
that the financial plan of Arch View included a vessel building schedule
consisting of two complete shifts. He added that Arch View could be in
operation in late summer, although further delay would make that plan
inoperable. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next reviewed the issues that would be under discussion
during a Closed Session of the Board. These included the Arch View application,
the Minutes of the Closed Session of October 25, 1991, and, review of supplier
and occupational applications.
Mr. Niepert moved
Statutes 102, Paragraph
Executive Session. Mr.
the yeas and nays. The
Board retired to Closed

that pursuant to the provisions of Illinois Revised
42.02(g), (h) and (k), that the Board retire to
Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the
Session at 11:35 A.M.

The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 1:56 P.M. The
Chairman reported that the minutes of the Closed Session of October 25, 1991 had
been approved.
The next order of business was consideration of Arch View Casino Cruises,
Incorporated. Mr. Johnson moved that the application received from Arch View
Casino Cruises, Incorporated for an owner's license be found unsuitable for
licensing. Mr. Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays by roll call vote. The members responded verbally to wit:
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Johnson Yea
Niepert Nay
Chamblin
Chairman

Yea
Nay

The motion failed 2-2.
The next order of business was consideration of applications received for
Supplier's Licenses. The Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman.
The Administrator requested Board approval of the staff's report with
respect to approval of the following applicants:
Nevada Dice Company, d/b/a Bud Jones Company
Green Duck Corporation
George C. Matteson Company, Inc.
He noted that the background investigations revealed no derogatory
information with regard to the applicants.

 Mr. Niepert moved that the report and recommendations of staff regarding
the above named be accepted and approved for licensing. Mr. Chamblin seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned applications received for
Occupational Licenses. The Chairman recognized Mr. Friedman.
Mr. Friedman requested the approval of the staff's report with respect to
numerous applicants. He noted that the report included both recommendations for
denial and approval of Occupational Licenses.
Mr. Chamblin moved that the report and recommendation of the staff with
respect to the Occupational Licensing of individuals be accepted and approved as
submitted. The motion included denial of Occupational Licensing to individuals
specifically listed within the report. Mr. Niepert seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was a request received from Des Plaines River
Entertainment Corporation to change its name to Empress River Casino
Corporation.
Mr. Niepert moved the name change be approved.
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

Mr. Chamblin seconded the

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned a request received from Southern
Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, Inc. to modify their application to allow for
a barge type docking facility.
Mr. Chamblin moved the request be approved. Mr. Niepert seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the approval of an investor applicant
for Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
Mr. Johnson moved the Board deny approval of the additional investor. Mr.
Johnson explained that the Board was unable to determine the source of funds of
the individual in question due to an inability to access the information from a
foreign government. He added that the individual had asked that the Board take
action to allow release of the invested funds. Mr. Chamblin seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman noted that it was the Board's policy to deny applications
whenever staff was unable to access all information that would provide the Board
with a full and complete investigation of applicants.

 The next order of business concerned status reports of owners. The
Chairman recognized Mr. Tom Long of Alton Riverboat Gambling partnership.
Mr. Long told the Board that the Alton Belle Casino should be considered a
successful operation. He noted that the average daily attendance was over 1600
passengers and that the house win was over $13 million since opening on
September 10, 1991. He reported no problems were being experienced. The
Chairman called for discussion and recognized Member Johnson.
Mr. Johnson asked when the Board could expect the partnership to place a
second or larger vessel in service. Mr. Long responded that the partnership
would make a decision after knowing the results of the Missouri referendum
concerning riverboat gambling in that state. He noted the referendum would be
acted upon in November, 1992.
Mr. Chamblin asked for comment on the economic impact of the Alton Belle
on business in the City of Alton. Mr. Long responded that motel occupancies
have increased and noted that sales tax collections for the Alton Belle exceeded
the combined Alton downtown sales tax collections. He noted that the
partnership had hired 567 persons. There was no further discussion.
The next presenter recognized was Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney for Greater
Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
Mr. Moore told the Board that the Par-A-Dice was exceeding all
expectations and that the focus for the GPRC was their impending move to the
permanent docksite in East Peoria. He noted that while there were some
political and financial problems, he estimated the move would occur by midsummer.
Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Moore to describe the political problems. Mr. Moore
responded the City of Peoria was concerned with GPRC's decision not to operate
the Spirit of Peoria as an excursion boat this summer. There was no further
discussion.
Mr. Johnson moved that the owner applicant Greater Peoria Riverboat
Corporation be granted final approval as a Holder of an Owner's License. Mr.
Niepert seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
At this point the Chairman recognized Mr. Louis Garippo, attorney for Mr.
Osamu Kasuya, the investor in Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation, who was
earlier denied approval as an investor by the Board. Mr. Garippo requested that
the Board reconsider their action with respect to this individual and allow Mr.
Kasuya to withdraw his application.
Having voted on the prevailing side, Mr. Johnson moved that the vote by
which investor Osamu Kasuya was denied be reconsidered, that the motion to deny
be tabled and that the Board approve a request to withdraw the application. Mr.
Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business were status reports of applicants found
suitable for licensing. The Chairman recognized Mr. William Widner of Aurora
Riverboats, Incorporated.

 Mr. Widner told the Board that ARI had submitted a written proposal to the
Board describing a new financial plan. He noted that the financing scheme was
unique to the gaming industry and that Payne-Weber was preparing "Gaming
Advantage Notes". He stated that ARI had taken possession of the land
constituting the docksite and that site improvements were underway. Mr. Johnson
asked that information be supplied to staff describing the investment scheme in
greater detail. Mr. Widner responded that the information would be submitted.
Mr. Friedman told the Board that staff was reviewing the proposal but was not
yet ready to provide a recommendation to the Board. Mr. Widner noted that
hopefully the marketing of the proposed notes would commence in March, 1992.
The next applicant was Des Plaines Development Corporation. Mr. Larry
Suffredin, attorney for the applicant, told the Board that DDC and the City of
Joliet had determined that a temporary docksite would not be feasible and that
development of the enterprise would depend on the completion of the originally
proposed boat basin. He noted the development package between the City of
Joliet and DDC totalled $41 million. He also stated that the proposed vessel
would have a capacity of 700 passengers with 500 gaming positions. Mr.
Suffredin stated that DDC hoped for an operational start date of January, 1993.
He concluded that the applications of the PROMUS corporation had been filed with
the Board for investigation and approval.
Mr. Johnson asked if the capacity of the vessel had changed from the
original application. Mr. Suffredin responded that he did not recall the
capacity of the originally proposed vessel. Mr. Johnson requested that DDC and
Empress River Casino Corporation submit detailed information concerning the
amount of investment required for the enterprise and what amount of the
investment was for improvements to the City of Joliet. Mr. Suffredin responded
DDC would submit the information which would be contained in the development
agreement between the city and DDC.
The next applicant was Empress River Casino Corporation. Mr. Phil
Griffith appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board that
construction of their vessel, the Empress, was on schedule and would be launched
on February 21, 1992 in Jacksonville, Florida with final completion anticipated
in May, 1992. He noted the land facility was under construction and that the
investment of the project would total $27 million. Mr. Griffith stated that the
Internal Controls for the enterprise had been submitted to staff.
Mr. Johnson asked that ERC submit the information requested of Des Plaines
Development Corporation concerning investments made benefitting the City of
Joliet.
The next applicant was Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation. Mr. James
Sheerin appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board that the
Corporation had completed organizing a joint venture with additional investors;
the owners of Eagle Ridge Resort, and that applications had been filed with
staff. He noted that the recently purchased vessel had cleared the Panama Canal
on its way to being retrofitted in Alabama. The vessel, the Galena Eagle, was
of a cruise ship design with 600 gaming positions. Mr. Sheerin stated that the
enterprise hoped that operations would commence in late April, 1992.
Mr. Johnson asked staff what the status of investigations of the
additional owners was. Mr. Friedman responded that the investigations were
underway and that the applicants were in the process of submitting additional
information to staff.

 The next applicant was Rock Island Riverboats. Mr. Michael Ficaro
appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board that the Casino Rock
Island would meet their originally proposed opening schedule of March 1992. He
noted that he hoped that the Board would be able to authorize a final practice
gaming excursion during the first week of March. There were no questions.
The next applicant was Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, Inc.
Mr. David Fishman appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board that
the bidding process for construction of a vessel has been completed and that
contract negotiations were in process. He noted that the present operational
date was late February or early March of 1993. Mr. Fishman stated that
riverfront plans for access roads and parking had been submitted to the Army
Corps of Engineers, and state and local officials for review and approval. He
advised the Board that based on the experience of the Alton and Peoria
enterprises, that there was consideration of excluding the planned buffet area
aboard the vessel and adding gaming positions. He noted that such a change
would produce a 20,000 square foot casino.
Chairman Kunkle asked about the status of the Kentucky - Illinois border
issue. Mr. Fishman responded that the U.S. Supreme Court had appointed a
Special Master to bring final resolution to the issue. There was no further
discussion.
The next item of business concerned a presentation by a group of citizens
from Jo Daviess County. The Chairman recognized Ms. Sara Fisher of Galena,
Illinois.
Ms. Fisher told the Board that she was presenting a petition to the
Illinois Gaming Board containing 4,000 signatures of area residents who were
opposed to the plans of Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation. She requested that
the Board hold a Special Meeting in Galena to review the concerns of the
citizens. She stated that Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation was creating an
environmental risk to an adjacent wildlife and fish refuge. She alleged that
violations of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service regulations had occurred and that
damage to protected wildlife in the area had already been experienced. She
noted that JDRC's docksite developer had been cited for these violations in
June, 1991. She stated that JDRC had not disclosed this information to the
Board and that violations were continuing. Ms. Fisher requested that the Board
suspend the finding of suitability with respect to JDRC until the allegations
and an environmental impact study had been completed. Additionally, Ms. Fisher
told the Board that local citizens objected to the use of the word Galena as
part of the vessel's name. She alleged that JDRC was deceiving the public by
using the name.
The Chairman next recognized the Honorable Jack Doyle, Alderman, City of
Galena, Illinois who told the Board that he opposed the plan of JDRC because it
would cause a monopoly. He noted that the purpose of the act was to create
economic development and that it was his opinion that no other hotel operation
would be willing to build in the area because of the ownership interest by the
investors of Eagle Ridge Resorts. He requested that the Board examine the
interests between JDRC and Eagle Ridge closely.
The next individual recognized was Mr. John Kent, Professor of Economics,
University of Illinois. Mr. Kent told the Board that he wanted to provide the
Board with updated economic data concerning gambling from the National Bureau of
Economic Research. He noted that according to the study, gambling caused

 economic dysfunction, exploitation of minorities and low income groups, social
dysfunction and, after time, increased taxes to address additional social
problems. There were no questions.
The Chairman next recognized Mr. Charles Splinter, Secretary of the East
Dubuque Area Economic Development Corporation. Mr. Splinter introduced other
area residents in support of JDRC's plans. There were no questions.
The next order of business was New Business.
Johnson.

The Chairman recognized Mr.

Mr. Johnson asked for an update on the study that was being done by the
Illinois Economic and Fiscal Commission. Mr. Friedman stated that staff had
been responding to requests and furnishing information to the Commission over
the past several months.
Mr. Johnson indicated that he would be speaking with the Commission in the
future about his personal views and opinions concerning gaming in Illinois and
wanted other members of the Board to be aware that he would be doing so.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Johnson
moved the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Niepert seconded the motion. The motion
was approved without objection and the Board stood adjourned at 3:26 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,

James A. Nelson, Secretary

 