MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JANUARY 17, 1995
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on January 17,
1995 in room 500-C of the State of Illinois Building, 160 North LaSalle Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The Regular Meeting was held pursuant to previous Board
action and notice was duly and timely given to each Board Member and the general
public in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, J. William Roberts and Robert F. Vickrey.
Member Gayl S. Pyatt was delayed due to weather.
In addition, Interim Administrator Joseph F. McQuaid, Deputy Administrator
Thomas F. Swoik; the media and the general public were in attendance.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:00 A.M.
Mr. Roberts moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2
(1), (4), (11), (14) and (21), that the Board retire to Closed Session to
consider the following subject matter:
1.
Issues concerning applicants and licensees;
2.
Recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge;
3.
Pending litigation and matters involving probable
litigation;
4.
Investigatory matters; and,
5.
Closed Session minutes.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 9:02 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 11:46 A.M.
Members Johnson, Browder, Pyatt, Roberts and Vickrey were in attendance.
The Chairman announced that one item was being added to the agenda, (Item
3 (a) - Personnel). There were no objections to the addition.
The first order of business concerned approval of minutes.
Mr. Browder moved that the Minutes of Regular Meeting for September 30,
1994 and December 1, 1994 be approved. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. One
technical correction was offered to the December 1, 1994 minutes. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Personnel.
Mr. Roberts moved to suspend the Board's two meeting policy to immediately
consider the appointment of an Administrator. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that Michael A. Belletire be hired as the Administrator
of the Illinois Gaming Board effective February 1, 1995 and that the Chairman be
authorized to negotiate the terms of employment and present such terms to the
Board for approval. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the Administrator's Report.
Chairman recognized Mr. McQuaid.

The

Mr. McQuaid first reviewed the Cruise Disruption Reports for November and
December, 1994. The Chairman stated that the Board had reviewed the reports and
remained concerned that licensees were out of compliance with Rule 3000.510,
Excursions During Inclement Weather or Mechanical Difficulties. The Chairman
instructed staff to prepare Disciplinary Complaints for consideration at the
February, 1995 meeting. The staff was further instructed to review Rule
3000.510 and make recommendations for possible amendment adding specificity and
clarifying language to the rule.
Mr. McQuaid next offered the Underage Patron Report for November and
December, 1994. The Chairman observed that it appeared that licensees that
reported fewer age verifications were those that had security and surveillance
located at parking facilities.
Mr. Swoik, on behalf of the Administrator, next reported on the status of
bids received to fund a compulsive gambling hot line. He stated that staff was
not yet prepared to provide the Board with recommendations. Mr. Swoik noted
that five Requests for Proposal were under review and that staff were in the
process of requesting clarifying information from the submitting organizations.
The next order of business concerned issues of Owner Licensees.
Chairman first recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.

The

Mr. Kevin Larson appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval for renewal of two lines of credit; $20 million from Bank of America
and $5 million from First Mid-west Bank of Joliet, Illinois. He noted that both
lines of credit were unsecured.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board approve the request received from Empress
River Casino Corporation to obtain a line of credit in the amount of $20 million
from Bank of America. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board approve the request received from Empress
River Casino Corporation to obtain a line of credit in the amount of $5 million
from First Midwest Bank of Joliet. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.

 Mr. John Janicik appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval to obtain a $10 million line of credit from Bank of America to be used
for general corporate purposes and unanticipated expenses.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board approve the request received from Par-adice Gaming Corporation to obtain a line of credit in the amount of $10 million
from Bank of America. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next asked for public comment concerning the request received
from Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation to renew an Owner's License. Mr. McQuaid
noted that a request to address the Board had been received from the Mayor of
East Peoria, Illinois. The Chairman recognized the Mayor.
The Honorable Jeffrey Giebelhausen appeared noting that he was joined by
all members of the East Peoria City Council. Mayor Giebelhausen read portions
of a letter requesting the Board not to renew the Owners License of Par-a-dice
Gaming Corporation or approve a transfer of ownership. The Mayor told the Board
that the city was opposing renewal and/or sale because of unresolved issues with
the licensee. He stated that the licensee owed the City of East Peoria $1.6
million under existing contractual agreements and that Par-a-dice had failed to
honor its pledge to construct a hotel/convention center at its docksite. He
noted that the city had incurred a significant expense for infrastructure
development and had been instrumental in assisting Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation
secure financing.
Mr. Tyrone Fahner next appeared on behalf of the licensee to respond to
the Mayor. Mr. Fahner told the Board that it was the plan of the licensees to
place $1.7 million in an escrow account until all outstanding issues were
resolved. He also stated that the proposed hotel would be a $17 million project
for which an agreement with a contractor had recently been signed. Mr. Fahner
stated that there was a legal question as to whether the licensee actually owed
the city $1.7 million in penalties for not opening the East Peoria docksite in a
timely manner.
Chairman Johnson stated that the city and the licensee should make every
effort to resolve their issues. He noted that other questions existed
pertaining to license renewal in light of published statements that the
ownership stock of Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation had been sold to National
Gaming Corporation, and that no applications had yet been received from the new
entity. The Chairman urged the licensee to resolve all issues and submit all
information to the Board for approval.
Ms. Pyatt requested that the staff report concerning the licensee's
request for renewal include a history of the relations between East Peoria and
Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.
Mr. Vickrey asked about the status of plans for a proposed Chicago/Peoria
freeway. City officials stated that a final route plan had not been adopted,
but that one of the proposals being considered would route the freeway past the
Par-a-dice property.
Further consideration was deferred to the February, 1995 meeting.

 The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino-Aurora.
Mr. Richard Knight appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested
approval of a financing plan for a new vessel consisting of a $5 million loan
from Merchants Bank of Aurora, Illinois.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board approve the request received from
Hollywood Casino-Aurora to obtain a loan in the amount of $5 million from
Merchants Bank of Aurora, Illinois. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Knight next requested consideration for a financing proposal totaling
$3 million in gaming and non-gaming equipment. The matter was deferred to the
February, 1995 meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Elgin Riverboat Resort.
Mr. Dan Azark appeared on behalf of the licensee and requested that
consideration of their request to re-capitalize be postponed. There were no
objections.
Member Roberts was required to leave the proceedings due to a previous
commitment.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensing.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations regarding
the approval of the applications for an Occupational License, Level 1, submitted
by the following individuals:
James Thomason
Kathy Zeller.
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and approve
the applications received for Occupational License, Levels 2 & 3. It was noted
the motion included 492 Level 2 and 702 Level 3 applications. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and deny
the applications received for Occupational License, Levels 2 & 3. It was noted
the motion included 8 Level 2 and 8 Level 3 applications. Mr. Browder seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned administrative hearings.

 Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board deny the requests for hearing submitted by
the following individuals in that the requests failed to comply with Rule
3000.405, Requests for Hearings:
France McNair
Joseph Lekar
Shirley Smith
Gary Sheldon
Kyle Engstrom
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board grant leave to Todd Porter to reapply for
an Occupational License within one year of January 17, 1995. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion to grant leave was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Pyatt moved that the Board grant leave to Alicia Herrera to reapply
for an Occupational License within one year of January 17, 1995. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion to grant leave was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board grant leave to Gary Clouser to withdraw his
request for hearing and to reapply for an Occupational License within one year
of January 17, 1995. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the yeas and nays.
The motion to grant leave was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
reject the recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny the
application for an Occupational License for Brian Henryson. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. Ms. Pyatt stated that the nature of the offense to which
Mr. Henryson had plead guilty was sufficient basis to find that he failed to
prove by clear and convincing evidence that he was suitable for licensing.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned pending investigations. The Chairman
stated that investigatory matters had been discussed during Closed Session and
that a number were referred for Board action.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 95-DC-1,
against Duncan LaChapelle be issued and that Mr. LaChapelle's license be
suspended for 10 days. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The complaint involved
Mr. LaChapelle's failure to comply with a Board agent's order regarding an
investigation into the criminal behavior of a Harrah's employee.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 95-DC-2,
against Timothy Dean be issued and that Mr. Dean's license be suspended for 10
days. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The complaint involved Mr. Dean's
failure to comply with a Board agent's order regarding an investigation into the
criminal behavior of a Harrah's employee.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 95-DC-3,
against Sylvester Reed be issued and that Mr. Reed's licensing privileges be
suspended for 3 years. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The complaint involved
Mr. Reed's suspected criminal activities while employed at Harrah's.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 95-DC-4,
against Thomas Cammack be issued and that Mr. Cammack's license be revoked. Mr.
Browder seconded the motion. The complaint involved Mr. Cammack's arrest and
conviction for a crime involving dishonesty after he had been licensed by the
Board.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Complaint for Disciplinary Action, 95-DC-5,
against Anthony Matthews be issued and that Mr. Matthews' license be revoked.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The complaint involved the criminal history of
Mr. Matthews which rendered him ineligible to possess an Occupational License.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned New Business.
The Chairman announced the regular meeting dates for the Board for 1995:
February
March
April 25
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December

14
21
16
20
18
15
19
17
21
19

 Mr. Joe Duellman, representing Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture,
appeared and requested favorable consideration for a refinancing plan. He
indicated that information would be filed with staff shortly. The matter was
deferred.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Ms. Pyatt moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board stood
adjourned at 12:52 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 