STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 7, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

PRESENT
II.
Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD April 16, 2013
III.
Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the April 16, 2013 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
IV.
Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

LEGISLATIVE AND FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report, reviewing in
detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned various
aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-12-044
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/ County of Cook and Sheriff of Cook County

Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
January 24, 2013 Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a recommended decision and order
(RDO) finding that the Respondent did not violate Section 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations
Act. General Counsel Post then reviewed the issues raised by the Charging Party’s exceptions and recommended
that the Board affirm the ALJ’s RDO. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the RDO. Member
Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-12-052
George Fielder/ City of Chicago
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. L-CB-13-026
Marketa Kristofek/ Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that the
Executive Director issued a dismissal on February 13, 2013 and that the Charging Party filed an appeal alleging that
Respondent failed its duty to provide fair representation and thus violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act. Respondent had filed a response to the appeal as well as a motion to strike documents. After

 General Counsel Post presented and discussed the issues of the case he recommended that the Board deny the
motion to strike documents and to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Lewis made
a motion to affirm the recommendation to deny the motion to strike documents. Member Anderson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Lewis moved to affirm the Executive
Director’s dismissal, Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
VII.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
not necessary at this time.
VIII. ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of June, 2013.

2

 