STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on June 6, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Don Hubert, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John Brosnan, Executive Director; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 9, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the May 9, 2006 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hubert seconded. The Board approved the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2006. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it. He noted that there was very little activity with regard
to representation matters, again due to the extent of organization among the employees under the Local
Panel's jurisdiction, but he highlighted the increased unfair labor practice activity, noting that during the
month, the agency issued two complaints for hearing, received one withdrawal, issued twelve dismissals,
and deferred four cases to arbitration.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS
L-RD-06-001
Young Mi Kaneshiro, Thomas J. Rogness, Patrick Heffernan, Kiala Moore Sliwa, Adele
Bach, Robert D. Jeter, Cristen R. Grajeda, Bob Porter, Sean Schaffer, Sarah
Pearce/Chicago Park District/Service Employees International Union, Local No. 73

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) John
Clifford issued the Recommended Decision and Order in this matter on April 19, 2006, and no party had
filed exceptions thereto. She further noted that ALJ Clifford dismissed the instant decertification petition,
finding it barred by a tentative agreement between the Chicago Park District, the employer of the
petitioning employees, and Service Employees International Union, Local 73, the representative of the
bargaining unit to which the petitioning employees belong. The General Counsel asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed the year-to-date fiscal report prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Board discussed various aspects of the agency's budget. Chairman Gallagher urged the Board
members and staff to attend to closing out the FY'06 budget. The Chairman and the Board then held an
abbreviated discussion of legislative activity that might affect the Board. At the conclusion thereof, the

 Board welcomed new staff attorney Ellen Strizak and resolved to send Jennifer Niemiec a letter of
appreciation for her work with the Board.

VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hubert made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The
Board adjourned the meeting.

2

 Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of August, 2006.

3

 