MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
July 18, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on July 18, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Gary Peterlin and William Dugan. Member Violet Clark was not present for the Open
session portion of the meeting.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the July 18, 2003 Regular Meeting at 8:55 A.M. in the 3 rd
floor Board Conference Room. Member Peterlin moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (July 18, 2003) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:25 P.M.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve the following closed session minutes of
the Illinois Gaming Board’s Regular Meetings of May 15, 2003, June 17, 2003 and
Special Meetings of May 21, 2003, June 3, 2003, June 10, 2003 and June 20, 2003 and
the open session minutes of its Regular Meetings of May 15, 2003, June 17, 2003 and
Special Meetings of May 21, 2003, June 3, 2003, June 10, 2003, and June 20, 2003.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that on June 20, 2003, the Board named Jeannette
Tamyao as the Interim Administrator. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Jeannette served
as the Deputy Chief Legal Counsel for the Board since October 1999. Chairman

 Higginbottom stated that prior to working for the Board, Ms. Tamayo served as a Special
Counsel to the Deputy Director and Chief Legal Counsel for the Illinois Department of
Children and Family Services. Chairman Higginbottom stated that from 1989 to 1991, Ms.
Tamayo served as the Administrator for the Illinois Department of Public Aid, where she
oversaw the $60 million dollar Welfare to Work Training Program. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that Ms. Tamayo’s legal career began in 1985 at the Legal Assistance Foundation of
Chicago, where she provided legal aid to residence of Chicago’s low-income and minority
communities. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board is very fortunate to have a
person such as Ms. Tamayo, who is capable, knowledgeable, and a dedicated public servant.
Chairman Higginbottom congratulated Ms. Tamayo and thanked Ms. Tamayo for “stepping
up” at the time when the Board needed someone to fill the position as Interim Administrator.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that the Board would be taking action to broaden the
agency’s Code of Conduct. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would adopt a
series of new rules to prohibit and restrict post agency employment by utilizing the rulemaking process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board expects the new rules to be in
place by the end of August 2003. Chairman Higginbottom stated that it is well known that
the Board is committed to ensuring the integrity of gaming in Illinois. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that by encompassing the Board’s Code of Conduct into the
administrative rules process, the Board would further strengthen its commitment.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that four of the Board’s licensees have requested waivers to
the two-meeting rule in order to seek reduction in operating hours. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the Board is concerned that if the request is approved, hundreds of casino
employees could lose their jobs. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would be
working with the licensees to address issues. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board
recognizes that the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act was enacted as an economic engine for
the State and that the Board is very concerned when there are situations that might cause
people to lose their jobs.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board is committed to the re-organization plan that
was filed by Emerald Casino on May 20, 2003. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
Board, through deposition testimony and exhibits, made its position regarding Emerald
Casino’s May 20, 2003 plan of re-organization known to the bankruptcy court. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board supported the May 20th plan of re-organization at the
time that it was filed and that it would still support that plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that the Board has requested a meeting with the Attorney General to discuss her objections to
the Emerald plan of re-organization. Chairman Higginbottom stated that to date, that
meeting has not taken place. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board is again
requesting such a meeting with the Attorney General. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
more specific information on the position of the Board could be found in the papers filed
with the bankruptcy court, which are available to the public. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that there is a July 22, 2003 hearing scheduled for the Emerald case, after which the Board
may be able to respond to more questions regarding the Emerald matter. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that Emerald requested that the bankruptcy court approve what has been
2

 described as bid procedures, which relates to the sale of Emerald. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that these procedures are different than the procedures that Emerald and the Board
discussed in connection with the May 20th plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
Board is not participating in the bid procedures approved by the bankruptcy court. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board would oppose any effort by Emerald to obtain a court
order directing the Board to participate in bid procedures. Chairman Higginbottom stressed
that the Board is in favor of the reorganization plan that was submitted on May 20, 2003.
Member Peterlin stated that the Board is looking forward to its meeting with the Attorney
General to see what differences she may have with the plan.
Member Peterlin asked that Interim Administrator, Jeannette Tamayo, work with Staff on the
issue of child support. Member Peterlin stated that the State of Illinois has been rather
innovative in the past few years in coming up with additional ways to enhance child support
collection efforts from people who are delinquent. Member Peterlin stated that families may
not be supported because the person responsible for child support is gambling. Member
Peterlin stated that Staff and the Board should consider the idea that when these people are
winning, there may be an opportunity to withhold the winnings so that child support
requirements could be met.
Member Peterlin stated that it appears that there is somewhat of a crisis at the Board with
respect to many positions that may need to be filled, and it could effect the Board’s ability to
carry our the enforcement of gaming. Member Peterlin stated that it would be very wise if
the Chairman and the Interim Administrator could meet with the Illinois Department of
Revenue and take a look at the staffing concerns. Member Peterlin stated that in order for
the Board to do its job and to ensure the integrity of gaming in the State of Illinois, the Board
is going to need those vacant positions addressed.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he agrees with Member Peterlin. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the reason why there have been such good operating gaming
facilities is because of the Staff at the Illinois Gaming Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that at the Board meetings, the public does not really have the opportunity to look at all of
the hard-working dedicated public servants that work at the Board. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that it is not just the four or five Board members, or the senior staff that the public sees
sitting on stage during the Board meetings, that run the agency. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the Board is a whole entity that is working hard to make sure that the integrity of
Illinois gaming is protected.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator, Jeannette Tamayo, provided the public with an overview of the Board
and its activities and the day-to-day operations of the Board.
Interim Administrator Tamayo discussed Closed session meetings. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that the meetings are closed because much of the information discussed

3

 relates to personnel, relates to financial competitive advantage issues, involves proprietary
information, or relates to ongoing investigations. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
the fact that the meeting is closed to the public does not mean that the public is not entitled to
know the types of information that are presented during Closed session.
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on the Closed session agenda to give the
public a better understanding of what happens during the Closed session portion of the
meetings.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the Illinois State Police recently gave Special
Agent Jimmy Terry a commendation for his professionalism, excellent work in leadership,
and for having made an outstanding contribution to his area of assignment. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that Mr. Terry was selected as one of 32 finalist for Officer of
the Year. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff and the Board are very proud and
honored that Mr. Terry is a member of the Board.
Public Commentary
Tom Grey, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was present to express his
opinion of the public’s perception of the Board’s ethics as it pertains to its Code of Conduct.
Rev. Phil Blackwell, Pastor, First United Methodist Church, was present to discuss his views
on regulation. Rev. Blackwell opined that the so-called “revolving door” policy that the
Board has demonstrated has affected the public’s confidence in gaming.
David Morrison, Illinois Campaign for Political Reform, was present to discuss his views on
the regulatory process. Mr. Morrison applauded the Board on its initiatives to shield the
Board from outside influence.
Mr. Morrison also discussed the resignation of former-Administrator Philip Parenti and
conflicts of interest.
Board Policy Items
CODE OF CONDUCT - Mark Ostrowski, Chief Legal Counsel, stated that at the Board’s
request, Staff is reviewing and researching issues relating to the Code of Conduct. Mr.
Ostrowski stated that those issues include provisions that will prohibit post-IGB employment
with not only the holder of the license or the applicant for a license, but also key persons,
applicants for key person, and their affiliates. Mr. Ostrowski stated that Staff is also
implementing provisions that would prohibit negotiations and discussions about future
employment while an individual is employed with the IGB. Mr. Ostrowski stated that there
would be restrictions that would relate to the licensees and key persons regarding their use of
service agents who provide services to the Board. Mr. Ostrowski stated that there would be
restrictions on the holding or the acquiring of an ownership interest with licensees, key
person, applicants for licenses or any key person status. Mr. Ostrowski stated that there

4

 would be sections that would deal with post-employment appearances, and discussions
before the Board on any matter that is under investigation by the Board relative to any
licensee, applicant for a license, key person, applicant for key person or their affiliates. Mr.
Ostrowski stated that there would be provisions related to confidentiality of material or
information within the possession of the Board and its Staff.
Mr. Ostrowski stated that Staff is looking to implement rules that would mirror its Code of
Conduct and implement the same concerns discussed earlier. Mr. Ostrowski stated that the
rules would govern the conduct of the licensees as well.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on June 19, 2003, Chairman Higginbottom directed correspondence
to Mr. Philip C. Parenti, former Administrator of the Illinois Gaming Board,
concerning limitations on Mr. Parenti’s post-Gaming Board employment,
limitations on contact with the Board or its employees on matters involving
Illinois licensees or the acquisition of any Illinois license and the permanent
prohibition from disclosure of privileged and/or confidential information under
the Riverboat Gambling Act and/or Federal or State law.
WHEREAS, on June 19, 2003, Chairman Higginbottom directed correspondence
to Mr. Gary Loveman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. A copy of the June 19, 2003, letter to Mr. Parenti was also
sent to Mr. Loveman. Chairman Higginbottom advised Mr. Loveman of the
responsibility of each Illinois licensee, as well as Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., to
comply with the specific requirements imposed by the Board’s Code of Conduct
as well as the June 19, 2003 letter to Mr. Parenti. Chairman Higginbottom
further advised that no violation of the Code of Conduct or the requirements set
forth in the June 19, 2003 letter to Mr. Parenti will be tolerated by the Illinois
Gaming Board.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board adopts Chairman
Higginbottom’s June 19, 2003 correspondence to Mr. Philip C. Parenti and
Chairman Higginbottom’s June 19, 2003, correspondence to Mr. Gary Loveman
as official Board orders and directs the recipients to comply with the conditions
and requirements set forth therein.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

5

 FY’ 2004 IGB BUDGET - Rick Larison, Deputy Director of Finance & Administration, was
present to discuss the fiscal year 2004 IGB budget . Mr. Larison provided the Board with an
overview of the State and IGB budget.
Mr. Larison discussed IGB budget issues, which included headcount, legal fees, the 10th
riverboat casino license, expanded gaming and overtime costs.
Mr. Larison discussed IGB operational issues, which included consolidation efforts, travel
restrictions and interagency agreements.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION DURING
CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY – Donna More, Attorney, and Jim Pedulla, General Manager,
were present to request initial consideration for a request to change hours of operation during
the Christmas Holiday.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET/ALTON BELLE CASINO – REQUEST TO WAIVE TWOMEETING RULE AND REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – Susan
Gouinlock, Attorney, and Dale Black, Chief Financial Officer, were present on behalf of
Empress Casino to request initial consideration for a request to waive the two-meeting rule
and to change hours of operation.
Chairman Higginbottom expressed his concerns in regards to the impact that the change of
hours would have on the community, as well as how the change of hours would effect
employees losing their job.
Mr. Black stated that anytime there is a situation where hours are reduced, it would have
some impact on staff needs. Mr. Black stated that those concerns were addressed in the
information that was previously provided to Staff. Mr. Black stated that there are plans in
place that if jobs were created, those who are effected by the shortening of hours would have
first choice to the created positions.
HARRAH’S - JOLIET – REQUEST TO WAIVE TWO-MEETING RULE AND REQUEST
TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – Michael St. Pierre, General Manager, was
present on behalf of Harrah’s Casino - Joliet to request initial consideration for a request to
waive the two-meeting rule and to change hours of operation. Mr. St. Pierre stated that with
the increase of the tax rate effective July 1, 2003, there has now been a very dramatic change
in the very economics of Harrah’s - Joliet’s business.
Member Peterlin posed his concern that customers who stay in Joliet would go to the
Harrah’s facility in Indiana. Member Peterlin stated that if that should happen the revenues
for Harrah’s wouldn’t change; however, the consequences for the State of Illinois could
change.
6

 Mr. St. Pierre stated that in anticipation of that very concern, he has personally withdrawn
from any discussions about Chicagoland marketing as a whole, and as a result he does not
have any information to offer the Board on Member Peterlin’s concerns. Mt. St. Pierre stated
that previously Harrah’s two properties in Indiana and in Illinois co-marketed and ran the
same advertising messages. Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s has discontinued that practice
as a result of the anticipated concern that the Board would have about an intentional shifting
of revenues from a higher-tax State to a lower-tax State.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO - REQUEST TO WAIVE TWO-MEETING RULE AND
REQUEST TO CHANGE HOURS OF OPERATION – Rodney Phillipe was present on
behalf of Hollywood Casino Aurora (HCA) to request initial consideration for its request to
waive the two-meeting rule and to change hours of operation. Mr. Phillipe stated that HCA
would like to revise its hours of operation from its current hours to 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 A.M.,
losing the last 2 ½ hours of the day and the first portion of the day. Mr. Phillipe stated that
HCA’s request is due to the increase in State taxes. Mr. Phillipe stated that HCA feels that its
request is reasonable based on the amount of business that HCA has during those marginal
times. Mr. Phillipe stated that he feels that the patrons would adjust their habits accordingly
to fit within the revised hours.
Chairman Higginbottom asked if HCA has taken into consideration the effect that the
shortening of hours would have on the employees – i.e., lay-offs.
Mr. Phillipe stated that tax increases usually result in operators shifting to less table games
and more slot machines because it is more expensive, and it takes more people to operate
table games. Mr. Phillipe stated that because there will probably be less table games, there is
going to be fewer employees, and that is where the impact, as far as lay-offs, will be felt.
Mr. Phillipe stated that in addition to the tax increase, HCA has also be forced to look at how
they run their restaurant, lounge, and other supporting services. Mr. Phillipe stated that
based on those operational cost considerations, there would be some job loss there as well.
Chairman Higginbottom asked if there would be an opportunity for job gain. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that since there could be more patrons and fewer operating hours, there
could be more customer traffic. Chairman Higginbottom asked if more traffic would require
more waitress and more support services staff.
Mr. Phillipe stated that there could be an opportunity for job gain in some areas. Mr. Phillipe
stated that HCA would now start having the cashiers accept admission fees. Mr. Phillipe
stated that some current casino service representatives, whose jobs will no longer be needed,
will now be used in other areas.
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board not waive the
requirement of Board Rule 105(e) and not permit Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton
Belle Casino, Empress Casino – Joliet, Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
d/b/a Harrah’s Casino, Joliet, and Hollywood Casino – Aurora to present today for
7

 final Board action its request to change hours of operation. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – COTINA R. JOHNSON, SENIOR INTERNAL AUDITOR
– LEVEL ONE – Randy Roberts, General Manager, was present on behalf of Cotina R.
Johnson to request approval as a Level One licensee.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Cotina R. Johnson as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ARGOSY GAMING – RICHARD JOHN GLASIER, PRESIDENT – KEY PERSON –
Susan Gouinlock, was present on behalf of Richard J. Glasier to request approval as a Key
Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Richard John Glasier as a Key Person of Argosy Gaming
Company, Inc. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensee Items
CASINO DATA SYSTEMS, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL – Donna More was present on
behalf of Casino Data Systems, Inc. to request approval for license renewal.

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license of Casino Data Systems, Inc. for a term of 4 years
expiring July 2007.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions and entities as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Chief Executive Officer;
Chief Operating Officer;
Aristocrat Leisure Limited;
Aristocrat International Proprietary Limited; and
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc.

Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve Casino Data Systems, Inc. to
manufacture, sell or lease EGD’s to licensed riverboat casino’s in the State of Illinois,
pursuant to the requirements set out in the Board’s Adopted Rules. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 SIERRA DESIGN GROUP – REQUEST FOR LICENSE – Donna More was present on behalf
of Sierra Design Group to request for license.

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve the application of Sierra Design Group for a Supplier’s license for a
period of one year expiring July 2004.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve Sierra Design Group to
manufacture, sell or lease EGD’s except the merchandise redemption EGDs, to licensed
riverboat casino’s in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the requirements set out in the
Board’s Adopted Rules.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions and persons as Key Persons of
the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Chief Operating Officer;
Robert A. Luciano; and
Bobby R. Drew.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve 30 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 97 applications for an
Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to the following four applicants for Level 2 & 3 licenses, each of whom
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Christopher Brooks;
Demond Nettles;
Courtney Pinnick; and
Maria Reyes.

9

 Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
In Re The Disciplinary Action of Katsuki Manabe and Sigma Game, Inc.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against:
(1) Katsuki Manabe, a Key Person of Sigma Game, for violating the Act
and
Board rules by failing to disclose certain loans and a Stock Pledge
Agreement.
(2) Sigma Game, Inc., an Supplier Licensee, for violating the Act and
Board
Rules by failing to promptly disclose certain loans.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board fine Katsuki Manabe $70,000 and fine
Sigma Game, Inc. $5,000. The aforementioned action will take affect twenty-one (21)
days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensees file answers within
that time period.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

In Re The Disciplinary Action of Corey Lampkin
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Corey Lampkin, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his theft of
tokens from an EGD from his employer, Casino Rock Island.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Mr. Lampkin’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
In Re The Disciplinary Action of Felicia Cross
10

 Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Felicia Cross, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to her theft of
tokens from an EGD from her employer, Casino Rock Island.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Ms. Cross’ Occupational License.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
In Re the Disciplinary Action of Larry Warren
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Larry Warren, a Level 3 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his October
21, 1998 conviction for a crime of dishonesty.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Mr. Warren’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, Member
Peterlin moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the following subject
matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. At 4:15 P.M. the Board re-convened to Closed
session.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board
11

 