STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 9, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Illinois River Room, Springfield,
Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of the Board;
Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director;
Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD September 11, 2012

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the September 11, 2012 meeting. Member Besson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from September 1 through September 30, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it. Executive Director Mlynski reported that there were no
pending legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-RC-10-034 and S-RC-10-036
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett directed General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
July 2, 2012, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO) in the above-referenced case. General Counsel Post then presented and discussed the Employer’s exceptions
and recommended that the Board uphold the ALJ's recommended decision and order. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to accept the ALJ’s recommended decision. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-RC-09-202
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July
2, 2012, ALJ Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO in the above-referenced case. General Counsel Post then discussed the
Employer’s exceptions and the Petitioner’s cross-exceptions and the responses and recommended that the Board
uphold the ALJ’s RDO with modifications. After lengthy detailed discussion, Member Washington moved to hold
this case for further review by the Board until the November meeting. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-UC-11-029
Illinois Council of Police/City of South Beloit
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Bell’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-12-124
Laborers, Local 622/County of Bond, Bond County Supervisor of Assessments, Bond County Clerk,
Bond County Treasurer, Circuit Clerk of Bond County, State’s Attorney of Bond County
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-12-127
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 219/Village of Schaumburg
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that an Executive Director dismissal issued on July 17, 2012, and an appeal
had been filed. General Counsel Post asked Counsel Kehoe to review the issues raised by the appeal, stating that
Respondent had violated Sections 10(a)(2) and (4) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010) as
amended (Act). After reviewing the appeal Counsel Kehoe recommended that the Board accept the 10(a)(2)
dismissal with modifications and reverse the dismissal of the 10(a)(4) allegations. After discussion, Member
Brennwald moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CB-11-043
Benny Eberhardt/International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that an Executive Director dismissal issued on July 17, 2012, and an appeal
had been filed. General Counsel Post asked Counsel Kehoe to review the issues raised by the appeal, stating that
Respondent had violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315 (2010) as amended
(Act). After reviewing the appeal Counsel Kehoe recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion,
Member Besson moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, Member Coli made a motion to
leave open session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss use of personnel pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(8).
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the
end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Besson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open
session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of November, 2012.

2

 