MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
June 26, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, June 29, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:27 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members
Maribeth Vander Weele and Michael Holewinski.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of May 29, 2014. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISSEMINATION OF MINUTES –
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the dissemination of the Closed
Session Minutes of meetings from January 2013 through March 2014. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Tom Swoik, Illinois Casino Gaming Association –
The Illinois Casino Gaming Association in the past has not been opposed to some form of
reasonable expansion; however, the Illinois Legislature has already approved an expansion of
gaming, what we are talking about in the latest expansion bills is expansion upon expansion.
The Illinois gaming world has changed dramatically over the past year and a half, every month
we are seeing over 850 new slots machines, that translates to a new casino opening every month.
Gaming revenues statewide for the original 9 casinos are down nearly 43% since 2007 including
a decrease of over 7% since slot machines were expanded to our neighborhood taverns, VFW
halls and truck stops.
For example, the revenues at the Harrah’s’ Joliet, Hollywood Joliet and Hollywood Aurora
casinos have dropped 47%, 45% and 48% respectively since 2007 and over 4.5%, 7.2% and 13%
respectively last year. Even more alarming, the revenues at the Elgin casino have dropped over
55.5% since 2007 and over 8.5% last year.
Expansion is already occurring in Illinois and the new state sanctioned gaming is having a
negative effect on the existing casinos.

 Some have said that the new slot machines in our neighborhoods are just replacing the old gray
machines. This is not true; these slots represent state sanctioned gaming and are having an effect
on the market.
There is no doubt that the casino industry simply underestimated the impact of these machines
on our industry. To compound the effect, these machines are being operated in venues the
original legislation never anticipated, flower shops, scuba shops, gas stations. Let me be clear,
this is not an accusation that the IGB is approving any venues that do not qualify, but simply
complying with the law. However, we worked aggressively during the last session to introduce
some changes in the law to limit these types of venues. Due to the complicated nature of these
changes we were unsuccessful. We intend to continue to do so in the future and it is our
preference to work with you and your staff to introduce changes that are easily enforceable and
make sense.
One of the other areas we attempted to clarify was related to responsible gaming and selfexclusion. We requested that all video venues be required to include references to gambling
problems in all written and marketing materials, similar to what we are required to do.
One of the issues we are most concerned about is the mass marketing mailings that are being sent
to large numbers of the public. As I’m sure you are aware many of these mailing offer free or
bonus play.
The casinos originally operating in Illinois each had their own self-exclusion programs prior to
the implementation of the state self-exclusion program. Additionally, we were and continue to
be, very supportive of the state operated self-exclusion program, including revising our incentive
programs for staff identifying self excluded persons. The problem is this---we must comply with
the requirements of the self-exclusion program but, video gaming establishments are not required
to do this.
If we send promotions to a self-excluded person, we are fined. The video gaming operations
sending mass mailings currently have no way of knowing if a self excluded individual is on their
list. There has to be some way to address this issue.
Finally, while we understand that the self-exclusion applications reference only casino gaming
and not video gaming venues. Various gaming boards have made this program one of their
highest priorities, as well it should, and the casino industry has been supportive of this priority.
We would request that the board continue to study this issue to determine how to best protect
those individuals who have reached out for help through the self-exclusion program.
My members have directed me to offer our help to work with you and your staff to figure out
some remedy to this problem.

2

 ITEM FOR INITIAL CONSIDERATION –
•

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Initial Consideration
of Owner’s License Renewal.
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet presented an
informational video referencing their license Joliet property.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVALS AND DENIALS –
•

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board find suitable
and approve 55 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses, 99 applications for
Level 3 Occupational Licenses and issue a Notice of Denial to Deyonous Moore.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING/REQUESTS TO REAPPLY –
•

In Re: the Disciplinary Action of Kenneth King – DC-13-07
Pursuant to Rule 1155, Member Vander Weele moved to adopt a Final Board Order,
in part adopting the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommendation. Further,
pursuant to Rule 140, Kenneth King is hereby fined $500. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:50 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 