STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on March 14, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—320 West Washington Street, Suite 500, Spfld, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Don Hubert, Member of the Board—participated by telephone; Edward E.
Sadlowski, Member of the Board—participated by telephone; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 14, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the February 14, 2006 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Hubert seconded. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from January 1 through February 28, 2006, as at the last meeting, due to a computer
malfunction, there was no report regarding Local Panel administrative actions from January 1 through
January 31. Executive Director Brosnan noted that the agency had conducted a representation election at
Cook County's Oak Forest Hospital, for 25 employees, in which Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor
Council prevailed. The agency certified the outcome on January 19, 2006. Executive Director Brosnan
also noted that Administrative Law Judge Clifford had issued a Recommended Decision and Order on
January 5, 2006, which is before the Board today—Case No. L-RC-05-014. Executive Director Brosnan
concluded his report, surveying the unfair labor practice case activity for January 1 through February 28,
specifically noting the eleven administrative dismissals, three deferrals to arbitration, and the
Recommended Decision and Order issued by Administrative Law Judge Kazanjian on January 24, 2006.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Review of Administrative Law Judge Decisions and Orders
L-RC-05-014
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, and Illinois Council of Police,
and Firemen and Oilers Union, Local No. 7

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that this matter was before the
Board at its February 14, 2006 meeting, at which time the Board declined to take the matter up on its own
motion after learning that no exceptions were filed to Administrative Law Judge Clifford's Recommended
Decision and Order. Thereafter, the Illinois Council of Police sought leave to file exceptions. General
Counsel Zimmerman explained that the certified mail records showed the Recommended Decision and
Order issued in this matter went unclaimed by the representative for Illinois Council of Police, Noel T.
Wroblewski, but in a departure from what usually occurs in such instances, the document was not
thereafter returned to the Board by the U.S. Postal Service. The agency's standard practice upon learning

 that a document sent certified mail went unclaimed, is to resend it by first class mail. Herein, because the
agency was unaware that service was incomplete, it did not attempt to resend the document. Thus, as a
result of these circumstances, Mr. Wroblewski was unaware of Administrative Law Judge Clifford's
Recommended Decision and Order until he received the subsequent General Counsel order, noting that no
exceptions had been filed to Administrative Law Judge Clifford's decision. The Board engaged in a
general discussion regarding the proper course of action to undertake and the content of Mr. Wroblewski's
exceptions, observing that the criticisms contained therein, leveled at Administrative Law Judge Clifford,
were unwarranted. After a thorough discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to revoke the General
Counsel order previously issued in this matter and to accept the case for consideration on the merits.
Member Hubert seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Review of Executive Director's Orders and Dismissals
L-CA-06-006
David J. Dogget and County of Cook

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case and recommended that the Board sustain
the dismissal. She stated that Charging Party failed to provide any evidence in the investigation or his
appeal, in support of his contention that his charge was both meritorious and timely filed. Member
Sadlowski questioned Executive Director Brosnan as to the weight he accorded the timeliness factors in
the decision to dismiss the charge. Thereafter, the Board engaged in a general discussion regarding the
decision as a whole and the reasons Respondent proffered for terminating Charging Party's employment.
Member Sadlowski made a motion to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal, and Member Hubert
seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board discussed whether to hear oral argument at its next meeting, in Case No. L-RC-05-018,
Teamsters, Local 714/Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority, ultimately resolving to do so.
Executive Director Brosnan did not present a new fiscal report, but Chairman Gallagher noted the agency
is continuing to stay within its budget. The Chairman reported on the agency's hearings before the House
and Senate Appropriations Committees. The Board decided against holding an Executive Session.

VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hubert made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. The
Board adjourned the meeting.

2

 