MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
May 13, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Revised
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on May 13, 2004 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, Gary Peterlin, and William Dugan.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the May 13, 2004 Regular Meeting at 8:35 A.M. in the 3rd
floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (May 13, 2004) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:21 P.M.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that Member Fanning is not with the Gaming Board any
longer. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Senate did not confirm Member Fanning’s
appointment to the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that it is a loss to the people of the
State of Illinois that the Senate chose to make the decision that it did. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that Member Fanning made a very valuable contribution to the Board
and to the business that is conducted by the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he
will miss Member Fanning. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he as well as all of the other
Board members wish Member Fanning well in his business endeavors.
Minutes
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of February 5, 2004, Special Meeting of February 19, 2004, Special Meeting of

 February 23, 2004, Special Meeting of February 25, 2004, Special Meeting of March 1,
2004, Special Meeting of March 4, 2004, Regular Meeting of March 11, 2004, Special
Meeting of March 25, 2004, Regular Meeting of April 8, 2004, Special Meeting of April
13, 2004, Special Meeting of April 22, 2004, Special Meeting of April 26, 2004 and the
open session minutes of its Special Meeting of March 1, 2004, Special Meeting of March
4, 2004, Special Meeting of March 5, 2004, Regular Meeting of March 11, 2004, Special
Meeting of March 15, 2004, Special Meeting of March 25, 2004, Regular Meeting of
April 8, 2004, Special Meeting of April 13, 2004, Special Meeting of April 22, 2004 and
Special Meeting of April 26, 2004. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announed that the licensees are moving forward as quickly as
possible to implement ticket vouchering technology. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
about one-third electronic gaming devices have been converted to ticket vouchering
technology. Chairman Higginbottom stated that seven of the Board’s facilities are
participating in ticket vouchering technology. Chairman Higginbottom commended all of the
licensees that have been participating in ticket vouchering technology.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the technology is being received very well by the
patrons. Chairman Higginbottom stated that there are a lot of benefits from ticket
vouchering technology. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the ticket vouchering
technology would make the Illinois licensees more competitive with the surrounding states.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the important thing that the Board needs to focus on for
the future is Illinois’ market share compared to Indiana, Missouri, and other states that
surrounds Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom commended Deputy Legal Counsel Mike Fries and his staff: Trudy
Curtis, Eleni Markos, Ron Partak, and Ed Filippini for the endless hours of work with the
licensees that they contributed to get the technology up and running.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that earlier today in closed session the Board discussed the
Attorney General’s recent announcement on her desire to go back to the revocation hearing
with regard to the Emerald process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board does not
agree with the Attorney General’s assessment of this Board’s actions regarding the Emerald
Casino license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that there was a settlement agreement that
was negotiated and a process that was set in place. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
Board followed that process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the settlement agreement
was an agreement that was negotiated by that Attorney General.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that after a winning bidder had been selected, the Board had a
public session in which the Board explained their positions and how they arrived at the
conclusion to award the 10th license to Isle of Capri. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if
you just follow the process and look at what the process said, the Attorney General was
2

 premature in “pulling the plug” on this process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
process said that there should be three finalists, and of the three finalists, the Board would
select a winner. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the process said that once the winner
was selected and there was a confirmation of the reorganization plan, the winner would then
be in a position to file an application for a license with the Illinois Gaming Board. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that once that application for license is filed with the Illinois Gaming
Board, the Board would conduct a suitability investigation of the applicant. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that should the applicant not be able to close, the process provided that
of the other two finalists one could be selected to go forward. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that he does not see that there is a reason why the Board would want to “pull the plug” and
not let that process go through to its natural end. Chairman Higginbottom stated that in this
time of a budget crisis, this sale of the Emerald Casino license would yield approximately
$380 million dollars to the taxpayers of the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he feels that the Attorney General is a little premature in
her decision to go back to the revocation hearing. Chairman Higginbottom stated that it is
not the desire of the Board to go back to the revocation hearing.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that on May 1, 2004 he had the opportunity to visit Alton, IL
for an affair. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he had the opportunity to meet some of the
people in the community. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Alton Belle Casino and the
Argosy organization sponsored the affair. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he was
impressed with all of the good things that Argosy is doing in the community to assist in the
economic development. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he observed the number of good
things that the community has done with the dollars received from the community’s local
share of taxes. Chairman Higginbottom congratulated and thanked the Argosy organization
for all of the good things that Argosy is doing for the community.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that as it relates to the Self-Exclusion Program, the Board has
enrolled over 1,500 people. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board feels that the
program is very important. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board understands the
issues of problem gambling and would like to continue to develop programs that will help
people who have problems with gambling.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a Special meeting on Tuesday,
May 18, 2004 at 8:30 A.M. to discuss litigation, the 10th license process, and Emerald
Casino, Inc.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been working for the last couple of
months to revise the Owners Acquisition Application. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated
that it should be finalized by the end of the day on Friday.

3

 Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has also started working on the Personnel
Disclosure Form I to make revisions. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that one of the
things that Staff is looking at is the Multi-Jurisdictional Form that New Jersey and other
States have provided to Staff. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is trying to
establish the differences between what Illinois is requiring and what other jurisdictions are
requiring to see where the process could be streamlined.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff would be scheduling meetings with suppliers
and owner licensees to discuss operational issues.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been keeping up with the overall
revenues of the supplier’s sales and leases in Illinois to see how they relate to TITO. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that for the first quarter in 2004, the licensed Illinois suppliers
generated revenues of over $14 million dollars. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
Staff would be providing a full report to the Board in June in terms of where Staff sees TITO
affecting the suppliers and owners.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that in the past month, Staff has had a two-day
statewide supervisor’s meeting that covered a number of operational items.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that there were no findings against the Board during
the Auditor General’s two-year compliance report for the Board for the period ending June
30, 2003. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board’s fiscal compliance, as well
as its operational compliance with the Riverboat Gambling Act, and all of the various laws
and policies that the Board is required to follow, was evaluated during the audit. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that auditors have started to conduct a new risk assessment
audit and are now focusing on the Internal Controls unit, but will be focusing on each of the
operational units of the department.
Gene O’Shea, Public Information Officer, provided the Board with a quarterly SelfExclusion report.
Mr. O’Shea stated that to date, the total persons enrolled in the Self-Exclusion Program is
1,516. Mr. O’Shea stated that since the program started in July 2002 there has been a total of
$38,141.20 compensated from gamblers who have returned to the casinos after being added
to the self-exclusion list. Mr. O’Shea stated that of that figure, $3124.94 was paid out in
taxes, leaving the total donated to various organizations to $35, 016.26.
Mr. O’Shea provided the Board with statistics that included the busiest enrollment month and
site, a breakdown of the number of residents enrolled in Illinois and other States, a
breakdown by gender enrolled, a breakdown by age enrolled, and a breakdown by ethnicity.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there is a General Manager’s meeting
scheduled for Friday, May 14, 2004. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the topics

4

 would cover TITO, the Self-Exclusion Program, digital surveillance, electronic key boxes,
marketing plans, kids in cars, and operational changes.
Interim Administrator Tamayo reminded all of the licensees that the public comment period
is running on two rule-making items that are pending before the Joint Committee and
Administrative Rules. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that one rule is with regard to
the surrender of supplier licensees and the second is with regard to the removal of a name
from the Board’s exclusion list. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that if anyone would
like to make comments to direct them to Dennis Brown within the necessary time period.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff continues to advocate for additional
personnel, which is much needed.
Owner Licensee Items
• Penn National Gaming Inc. – Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule and Request to Refinancing
Current Credit Facility - Paul Jensen, Attorney, was present on behalf of Penn National
to request a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board waive the two meeting requirement of Board
Rule 3000.105(e) and permit Penn National Gaming Inc. to present for Board approval
its request to refinance its Senior Subordinated Notes. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• Penn National Gaming Inc. – Request to Refinance its Senior Subordinated Notes – Paul
Jensen, Attorney, was present to request approval for Penn National to refinance its
senior subordinated notes.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Penn National Gaming Inc.’s request to refinance its Senior
Subordinated Notes consistent with the terms and conditions proposed in its April 19,
2004 correspondence to the Chief Legal Counsel.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator, under Board
Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of the appropriate
documentation. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
• Par-A-Dice casino/Boyd Gaming – Request to Refinance Current Credit Facility - Mark
Schroeder, Attorney, and Ellis Landau were present on behalf of Boyd Gaming Company
to request approval to refinance its current credit facility.
Based on the review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin
moved that the Board approve Par-A-Dice Casino/Boyd Gaming’s request to refinance

5

 their current credit facility consistent with the term sheet submitted to the
Administrator on March 16, 2004 as revised. Further, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board delegated to the Administrator, under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval
of the transaction upon execution of the appropriate documentation. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• Casino Queen – Mitchell K. Johnson, EGD Manager – Level One – Jeff Watston,
General Counsel, was present on behalf of Mitchell Johnson to request approval as a
Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Mitchell K. Johnson, as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in his
position as the slot manager at the Casino Queen, Inc. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• Grand Victoria Casino – Michael Garipay, Controller – Level One, Mark Schroeder,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Michael Garipay to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Michael Garipay as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in his
position as the Controller at Elgin Riverboat Resorts d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
• Grand Victoria Casino – Wayne E. Sawyer, Director, Slot Operations – Level One –
Mark Schroeder, Attorney, was present on behalf of Wayne E. Sawyer to request
approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Wayne Sawyer as an Occupational Licensee, Level 1, in his
capacity as Director of Slot Operations at the Elgin Riverboat Resorts d/b/a Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

• Grand Victoria Casino – Peter M. Liguori, Executive Committee – Key Person – Mark
Schroeder, Attorney, was present on behalf of Peter M. Liguori to request approval as a
Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Peter M. Liguori, as a Key Person in his position as a member
of the Executive Committee for Elgin Riverboat Resorts d/b/a the Grand Victoria

6

 Casino. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Harrah’s Entertainment – Gary W. Loveman, CEO – Key Person – John Janicik, Attorney,
was present on behalf of Gary W. Loveman, to request approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Gary W. Loveman, as a Key Person in his capacity as Chief
Executive Officer, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. Member Dugan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Harrah’s Metropolis – Jimmie D. Jones, Surveillance Director – Level One – Thomas A.
Thanas, Attorney, was present on behalf of Jimmie D. Jones to request approval as a Level
One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Jimmie D. Jones as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in his
position as the Surveillance Director at Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises.
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 138 applications for an Occupational License at Level 2, and 301 applications
for an Occupational License at Level 3.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board direct the Interim Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following applicant for a Level 3 license, who previously received
notice that staff had intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or
provide additional information to rebut the recommendation:
• Trina Brooks
Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of David Theiring
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against David Theiring, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
7

 Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to David Theiring’s September 17, 2003 felony
conviction.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke David Theiring’s occupational
license. Said action will take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Martina Rodriguez Alarcon a/k/a Carmen Morales
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Martina Rodriguez Alarcon, an
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Martina Rodriguez Alarcon fraudulently
obtaining a gaming badge on July 21, 2001 through the use of false identification.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke the occupational license issued to
Martina Rodriguez Alarcon under the name Carmen Morales. Said action will take
effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee
files an answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Victor Bibar a/k/a Ivan Sanchez a/k/a Victor Vivar
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Victor Bibar, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Victor Bibar fraudulently obtaining a gaming badge on
March 16, 2001 through the use of false identification. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Sharmin Clifton
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Clark moved
that the Board issue disciplinary complaint against Sharmin Clifton, an occupational
licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Sharmin Clifton’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files and answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Todd Porter

8

 Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue disciplinary complaint against Todd Porter, an occupational
licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Todd Porter’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files and answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Aaron Oliver
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Clark moved
that the Board issue disciplinary complaint against Aaron Oliver, an occupational
licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Aaron Oliver’s occupational license.
Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files and answer within that time period. Member Dugan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Members’ Comments
Member Peterlin stated that he feels that many people are suggesting solutions to the
situation regarding the 10th license. Member Peterlin stated that he hopes that those who are
in an opportunity to be apart of suggesting solutions would take the time to sit down and
meet with the Board to see if there can be a solution to the overall problem. Member Peterlin
stated that every time someone suggests a solution, there appears to be several legal
questions that have to be answered before the recommended solution could even be carried
out. Member Peterlin stated that he has heard so many solutions suggested but he has not
seen anything happen that has been particularly productive. Member Peterlin stated that he
feels that there is an opportunity for the “powers to be,” that suggest some of the solutions, to
start communicating with each other. Member Peterlin stated that he hopes that there is an
opportunity for the Board to start communicating with the “powers to be.” Member Peterlin
invited those with suggestions to sit down with the Gaming Board and Staff to talk about
some of the issues that have to be addressed rather than just potentially suggesting solutions
that really can’t be carried out.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board has in the past, and is always prepared to, sit
down and speak to people regarding the reasons why the Board made the decisions that it did
as it relates to the 10th license. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board was able to
answer any questions that the public had in a public forum on April 8, 2004. Chairman
Higginbottom stated the Board has analyzed the issue well, and it feels that it has acted in the
best interest of the citizens of the State of Illinois. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the
9

 Board stands by the decision that it made to move forward with the sale. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board stands by the fact that they complied completely with the
terms of the settlement agreement and the sales process. Chairman Higginbottom stated that
the Board was consistent with the recommendation of Isle of Capri by Rothschild, the
investment banker that was brought on board to sell Emerald Casino, Inc.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would like to see the 10th license up and
operating so that the citizens of the State of Illinois can realize the benefit from the ten
licenses that were issued several years ago.
At 3:08 P.M., Member Clark moved to adjourn. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

10

 