MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
October 7, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
On Friday, October 7, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 8:58 A.M. Present were the following: Members Hector Alejandre, Member
Dee Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas Dunn. Member Dunn chaired the
meeting. Chairman Tracy telephoned in briefly to explain his absence and stated that Member
Dunn will chair the meeting.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of August 31, 2016. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Initial Consideration



Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – d/b/a Rivers Casino –
Refinancing
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino d/b/a Grand Victoria
Casino – ANP Trusts #22, 24, 28 and 30 – Transfers for Estate Planning
Purposes

Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino - MGM Resorts
International (MGM) – Refinancing
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve the refinancing transaction request
submitted by MGM Resorts International to attach Nevada Landing Partnership and
MGM Elgin Sub, Inc. as subsidiary guarantors of the $500 million Senior Notes issued in
August 2016, and, further, to allow Nevada Landing Partnership and MGM Elgin Sub,
Inc. to be attached as subsidiary guarantors of additional Senior Notes, if issued, of up to
$1.0 billion. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.


Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – License Renewal

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Owner’s License of the Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino for a period of four years, expiring in
October 2020, and approve the following entities and persons as Key Persons of the
licensee:

 


















Jeffrey Ehlers
William Martin
Philip Kayman
Anton Nikodemus
Lewis Linn
Marshall Eisenberg
Paul Bible
Randall Roberts
Martha Sabol
Illinois RGB, LLC
H Group Holding, Inc.
MGM Elgin Sub, Inc.
Nevada Landing Partnership
M.S.E. Investments, Inc.
Diamond Gold, Inc.
Mandalay Resort Group
MGM Resorts International
Tracinda Corporation

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.


Rock Island Boatworks, d/b/a Jumer's Casino and Hotel – Rick Abramson –
Executive VP and COO of Delaware North Companies – Key Person

Member Dolins moved that the Board find Rick Abramson, Executive VP and COO of
Delaware North Companies, suitable as a Key Person of Rock Island Boatworks, d/b/a
Jumer's Casino and Hotel. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.


Hollywood Casino Aurora – Hollywood Casino Joliet – Lori Ware-Taylor –
VP of Finance – Level 1 Licensee

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Lori Ware-Taylor as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as Vice President of Finance for Hollywood
Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Angus Cole
– Board Member/Manager – Key Person

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Angus Cole suitable as Key Person in his
role as Board Member/Manager for Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.

2

 

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino and Hotel – Michele A. Wolff– Internal Auditor – Level 1 Licensee

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Michele A. Wolff as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as Internal Auditor for Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino and Hotel.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Penn National Gaming – Alton Gaming Company, HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora - Shamira Mavany –
VP of Internal Audit – Key Person

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Shamira Mavany suitable as a Key
Person in her role as Vice President of Internal Audit for Alton Gaming Company, HC
Joliet, LLC and Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal
Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Supplier's License
renewal application of Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approvals and Denials)
The Board reviewed the list presented by Staff, and based on Staff’s investigation and
recommendation, Member Dolins moved to find suitable and approve 73 Level 2 occupational
licenses, and 158 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to:
1. Jennifer M. Crawford
2. Michael Ray Fassold
3. Bradley Antos
4. Jesenia Nicole Carrasquillo
5. Jonathan N. Jones
6. Timothy T. Guilford
7. Michael A. Smith, Jr.
8. Maxwell A. Kohn
9. Terry L. Linton, Jr.
10. Mike Bounsinh
11. Louise K. Jamison

3

 Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against United
States Playing Card Company, fining the company $10,000 for failing to timely
implement quality control procedures and failing to notify Hollywood Casino Aurora of
defective playing cards, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to
revoke the Occupational License of Isaiah S. Goines due to his conduct while
employed Rivers Casino which lead to his termination, said action to take effect
21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:15 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Dolins seconded the motion. All
Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 