STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on September 13, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; Michael Hade,
Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of the State Panel; Robert M. Gierut, Local
Panel Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Local Panel; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

BOARD ACTIONS

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to
discuss personnel/hiring matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Hade seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion,
Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open
session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. In
open session, Chairman Gierut recused himself from any vote on the instant matter before the Board.
Member Coli moved that in consideration of the circumstances, that the Governor's office appointed
Robert M. Gierut to the chairmanship of the Local Panel as provided for in the Act, but due to an
oversight in appropriations, he cannot be compensated, and that the Governor's office requested that the
agency assist in a short-term resolution of the matter, until the General Assembly has the opportunity to
correct the oversight in the upcoming legislative veto session, that Chairman Gierut be placed on the
agency's payroll until no later than December 31, 2011, provided that prior to any such placement, the
Governor's Office of General Counsel delivers to the Board an appropriate opinion indicating that such
action comports with all applicable laws and that the Board is empowered to expend funds appropriated to
it in the manner contemplated herein. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed
the motion—five in favor, none against—Chairman Gierut did not participate in the vote.
IV.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of December, 2011.

 