MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
January 28, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, January 28, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:12 A.M. Present were the following: Members Lee Gould, Hector
Alejandre and Member Dee Robinson. Chairman Don Tracy and Member Dunn participated via
telephone
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on December 16, 2015. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS –
Chairman Tracy stated that he could not attend the open session meeting in person due to
employment purposes related to the business of the public body.
BOARD MEMBER'S COMMENTS –
Member Dunn stated that he could not attend the open session meeting in person due to personal
illness.
Member Robinson made a statement referencing equal access to minority vendors and Member
Gould stated that the Illinois spend should also have a role in awarding contracts.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
The Administrator gave a brief summary of the 2015 calendar year achievements.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Illinois RBG, LLC – Transfer of
Ownership in RBG – Request for Approval
Pursuant to Rule 235, Member Robinson moved to wave the two meeting requirement and
approve Elgin Riverboat Resort – Illinois RBG, LLC request to transfer a percentage of
ownership from JBR Trust#2, JBR Trust #3 and JBR Trust #4 to JBR Trust #1 and approve Elgin
Riverboat Resort – Illinois RBG, LLC request to transfer a percentage of ownership from ANP

 Trust #2 and ANP Trust #3 to ANP Trust #1. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Mark Paul Frissora - CEO and President of Caesars Entertainment and Corporation and
Caesars Enterprise Services, LLC – Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah's Joliet Casino Hotel – Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a
Harrah's Metropolis Hotel and Casino – Key Person
Member Robinson moved to find Mark Paul Frissora suitable as a Key Person of the Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino Hotel and Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Hotel and Casino. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – Brandi Jinkerson –
Junior Internal Auditor – Level One
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Brandi Jinkerson as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Junior Internal Auditor for Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a
Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Richard Primus – Sr. VP & Chief Information Officer – Penn National Gaming – Alton
Gaming Company – Empress Casino Joliet d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Hollywood
Casino Aurora – Key Person
Member Robinson moved to find Richard Primus suitable as a Key Person of the Empress
Casino Joliet d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
American Gaming & Electronics, Inc. - Supplier License Renewal
Member Alejandre moved to approve the renewal of the Supplier’s License of American Gaming
& Electronics, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in January 2020, and approve Anthony S.
Spier and AG&E Holdings Inc. as Key Persons. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals & Denials:
Member Robinson moved to find suitable and approve 55 level 2 occupational licenses, and -135
level 3 occupational licenses and authorize the administrator to issue a notice of denial to:



Sally Mae Greer
Scott O. Guider

2

 


Jerica Jones
Zachary Rakestraw

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
George Cuarteros (Occupational licensee level 3)
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational license of George Cuarteros, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Anissa Coleman Mosby (Occupational licensee level 3)
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the occupational license of Anissa Coleman Mosby, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC (DC 15 14)
Member Robinson moved to accept the proposed settlement agreement from Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC; delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such settlement and
dismiss Disciplinary Complaint 15 14 with prejudice. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
motion passed by a vote of 4-0 with Member Alejandre abstaining from voting.
Chairman Tracy commended Rivers' on working with staff diligently to address the matter.
At 9:48 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 