STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 14, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Springfield,
IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Michael Coli, Member of Board; John Samolis, Member of Board; Keith
Snyder, Member of Board: Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and
staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD March 10, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the March 10, 2015, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Chairman Hartnett seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report as well
as the fiscal, legislative and mediation reports. She presented the reports and summarized their highlights. The Board
examined the reports and discussed them. Deputy General Counsel Sarah Kerley presented the litigation report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-13-075
Frank Marasco/ Oak Brook Park District

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case and then asked
Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the case to the Board. Associate General
Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on December 17, 2014, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Kelly Coyle issued a
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) dismissing the allegations that the Respondent violated Section 10(a)(1)
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act). She then discussed the Charging Party’s exceptions and response
and the Respondent’s cross-exceptions. After her discussion, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended
that the Board affirm the ALJ’s RDO. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-14-057
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Elburn
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case and then asked
Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel
Hamburg-Gal stated that on December 15, 2014, ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO dismissing the allegations that the
Respondent violated Section 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s exceptions and
Respondent’s response. After her discussion, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board
affirm the ALJ’s RDO with modification. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-15-097
Labor Organizations Comprising the Springfield Building Trades/ Illinois Secretary of State
General Counsel Post called the case. He stated that an Executive Director dismissal issued on February 6, 2015,
dismissing allegations that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. He then discussed the Charging Party’s

 appeal and request for oral arguments. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board deny
Charging Party’s request for oral argument and affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Chairman
Hartnett moved to deny the request for oral argument. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CB-15-011
William Friend/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Post called the case. He stated that an Executive Director dismissal issued on January 28, 2015,
dismissing allegations that Respondent violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Act. He then discussed the Charging Party’s
appeal and Respondent’s response. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm
the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the Executive Director’s
dismissal. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 19th day of May, 2015.

2

 