MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
August 9, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 9, 2011 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, August 9, 2011 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler and Joseph Moore. At
9:40 A.M. on Tuesday, August 9, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to
Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of
the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session
to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation, and
Closed session minutes.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. Member Moore moved to go into Open Session at 12:30 P.M.
The Board went into open session at 1:32 P.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe,
Members: Charles Gardner, and Joseph Moore. Member Winkler participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 13, 2011. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM –
●

2011 Video Gaming Board Meeting Dates
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the following dates for Video Gaming
Board Meetings for the 2011 Calendar year:
September 19 & 20, 2011 the 19th Closed, the 20th Open
October 27, 2011 Closed and Open
November 7 & 8, 2011 the 7th Closed, the 8th Open

 December 5 & 6, 2011 the 5th Closed, the 6th Open
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
●

Proposed Rules – Disassociation

Caleb Melamed; Legislative Liaison for the IGB addressed the Board:
A proposal to add a new section to the rules on video gaming is hereby submitted for
Board consideration. The new Section 330 (11 Ill. Adm. Code 1800.330) is entitled “Economic
Disassociation” and applies to all licensees under the Video Gaming Act. It authorizes the Board
to order the economic disassociation from a licensee of a Person With Significant Influence or
Control or holder of an Ownership Interest, if the Board determines such action is warranted
because of the licensee’s character, reputation, experience, associations, business probity, or
financial integrity. The language of the new section parallels that of Section 224 of the Board’s
rules on riverboat gambling (86 Ill. Adm. Code 3000.224), which currently authorizes the Board
to order the disassociation of Key Persons of owners and suppliers licensed under the Riverboat
Gambling Act.
If the Board approves the new Section, it will be filed with the Secretary of State as a
proposed regular rulemaking.
Member Gardner moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed rule
Section 1800.330 regarding the economic disassociation of any person who, with
respect to that applicant or licensee, is a Person With Significant Influence or
Control or holder of an Ownership Interest, for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member
Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
The Chairman read a statement that is posted on the IGB website.
Public Notice – August 5, 2011
The Illinois Gaming Board has received multiple complaints from potential Video Gaming
Licensed Locations regarding individuals posing as representatives of the Illinois Gaming Board
or the Illinois Gaming Commission pressuring the locations into signing a contract with a
potential Terminal Operator. The individuals claim that the location is “pre-approved” to have
up to five video gaming machines, and that the location must call a phone number by a certain
time that same day to ensure that the machines can be placed. Alternatively, the caller says that
the location has been pre-approved and must submit an application immediately.

2

 Please note the following:
●

The Licensed Location Application has not yet been released by the Illinois
Gaming Board.

●

Illinois Gaming Board agents have identification, and potential Licensed
Locations should ask for such if called or approached by individuals claiming to
be IGB representatives.

●

The Illinois Gaming Board has not and will not contact potential Licensed
Locations to suggest that they need to apply for a license.

●

Once the Licensed Location application is released, there is no “cut off” period
within which to submit an application.

The Illinois Gaming Board urges potential Licensed Locations to thoroughly consider the
decision to sign a Use Agreement with a potential Terminal Operator. As stated above, there is
no time limit within which to apply for a license or sign an Agreement; thus, caution should be
used when deciding which potential Terminal Operator to work with.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that many calls were received by staff pertaining to inquiries
about which suppliers are on the agenda for video gaming. The Board and staff are currently
investigating over 600 applications. Staff will be thorough in their investigations. The general
public should review the agenda when it is released to the public.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Mr. Roy Corrie was scheduled to address the Board. He approached the podium and stated that
upon advice of his attorney will not speak, however, he wanted to submit a statement to the
Board for their consideration, which he handed to the Board secretary.
The following are the comments of Anita Bedell – Illinois Church Action on Alcohol &
Addition Problems:
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to give public comment before the board. First, I
would like to thank Chairman Jaffe for publicly voicing the Illinois Gaming Board’s concerns
about SB744, the massive expansion of gambling and for meeting with Governor Quinn about
your opposition to this flawed bill.
I testified before the Legislative Committees in 2009 prior to passage of HB255, which legalized
video gambling. I also testified before the legislative Committees this spring as an opponent of
SB744, and I agree with your concerns. We have additional concerns with this flawed bill.
While the Illinois Supreme Court has ruled that the Video Gambling Act is Constitutional, we
are concerned that SB744 will expedite the start of video gambling without the proper safeguards
and strict regulation that are needed to protect the public and prevent organized crime from
gaining a foothold.

3

 As SB744 related to video gambling, we are concerned about Section 47 regarding Provisional
Video Gambling Licenses. These Provisional Licenses would be used in retail liquor
establishments, truck stops, veterans and fraternal organizations.
SB744 stipulates that the Illinois Gaming Board SHALL make video gambling applications for
licensure available within 60 days after the effective date of the Act, and the Board SHALL
ISSUE A PROVISIONAL LICENSE if certain requirements are met. Among these are:
1.
Applicant has never been convicted of a felony. The language in this bill is
flawed. Illegal video gambling has been going on for years in many communities, with no
convictions. Generally, local law enforcement does not even enforce the law concerning illegal
gambling, because it is not a priority to stop illegal gambling and the organization that it
controls.
2.

Applicant is current on all State and Federal taxes.

3.
Applicant has submitted a completed application for a license-this may be
submitted concurrently with the application for a provisional license. (Lawyers, hired by the
companies that will reap a fortune from this new legalized form of gambling, will more than
likely be available to help qualifying establishments complete these applications as soon as the
bill is signed into law. This Board will be swamped with applications, and will not have enough
trained staff to properly investigate all the applications in the short, 60 day time frame that
legislators approved in this flawed bill.)
4.
Applicant has held a liquor license since at least July, 2009, and a) not had the
license REVOKED, b) provided proof of a valid charitable games license, or c) provides proof of
a valid license as an agent for the Lottery. It is rare for a liquor license to be revoked in Illinois.
Many liquor law violations are kept secret because bars, restaurants and liquor stores go through
an Administrative Review Process where the business never admits breaking any law, they agree
to pay a fee rather than a fine, and the “records are wiped clean by state officials”, according to
the Chicago Sun-Times. While the Administrative Review Process involves minor infractions,
an alleged gambling violation could be handled in this manner “if there’s never been any finding
of guilt”. (The Chicago-Sun Times, August 10, 1998, by Tim Novak)
5.
Applicant has never been CONVICTED of a criminal gambling charge. I called
the IL Liquor Control Commission to check on the status of several establishments that had
misdemeanor gambling charges pending in 2004. I wanted to know if these businesses still held
liquor licenses and how many of the licenses had been revoked. Rick Haymaker said that none
of the licenses had been revoked-many of the businesses were no longer in operation and the
licenses were not renewed. Four of these establishments are still operating and have current
liquor licenses. I ask the Board to look into the criminal charges if these establishments apply
for a video gaming license. We are concerned how the Board will be able to investigate all the
owners of establishments. Will the owners of these former establishments re-open under a
different name and be given a provisional license due to lack of time for a thorough
investigation? If could take longer than 60 days for the Gaming Board to check the records for

4

 all of the establishments, companies, and individuals applying for a provisional video gambling
license.
6.
Applicant furnishes results of a State and Federal background check performed by
State Police, another Chicago Sun-Times article, “Feds Zero in on Video Poker Kings”, notes
that “video gambling is the mob’s lifeblood, pumping millions of dollars every year into the
Outfit’s coffers”. (February 20, 2005, p. 8A) One reputed top Chicago mob boss was not only
controlling his criminal empire while he was in prison, but the feds believe he was expanding it.
Top mobsters have been caught on secret FBI recordings welcoming the legalization of video
gambling machines, according to a Feb. 7, 2010 Chicago Sun-Times article. Given the history of
illegal video gambling in Illinois and the associations with organized crime, it is imperative that
a more thorough investigation be conducted by the IGB rather than a simple background check,
before any licenses are issued.
SB744 further states that the Board SHALL issue a provisional license within 60 days after the
application has been received by the Board if the criteria have been met. That provisional
license is valid for ONE YEAR, unless the board denies the application or the license is
terminated for a violation. If the Board still has not acted, within 60 days after the expiration of
a provisional license, the applicant may apply for a renewal for another year. Once a provisional
license is given out, it will be extremely difficult to take it away. This could result in years of
litigation and tremendous cost to the State. How many staff, outside lawyers, and money are
needed just for this effort alone? This is another problem with this flawed bill.
When the Illinois General Assembly debated the video gambling act in 2009, the sponsors
assured the Legislators and the public that the Illinois Gaming Board would strictly regulate
video gambling. They repeatedly made the point that by legalizing video gambling, the public
could be assured that everything was being done properly. Yet, when the Illinois Gaming Board
passed a rule that would disqualify some establishments for illegal gambling, the Legislature
passed another law saying only those establishments CONVICTED of a criminal gambling
charge would be ineligible.
This year, the Legislature quickly passed another flawed bill SB744 that expedites the process
for the Board to begin video gambling so the State can get the revenue. Legislators praise the
Gaming Board when they want to expand gambling, and then they criticize the Board when they
work to ensure the integrity and safety of gambling.
This is similar to what happened 12 years ago when the Legislature passed a gambling expansion
bill in May, 1999 a provision was included for the relocation of the 10th casino license for
Rosemont, “the Board SHALL grant the application and approval upon receipt by the licensee of
approval from the new municipality or county, as the case may be, in which the licensee wishes
to locate”. In spite of Legislative language and politicians criticizing them for their
thoroughness, the Gaming Board did their due diligence, found associations with organized
crime, and acted to protect the public.
The Illinois Gaming Board is charged with ensuring “public confidence and trust in the
credibility and integrity of gambling operations and the regulatory process.” Former Gaming

5

 Board Administrator Sergio Acosta wrote an op-ed piece for the Chicago Tribune and said,
“Understaffed regulators forced to work on unrealistic deadlines while fighting off political
interference will diminish public confidence and create fertile ground for crime and corruption.”
We are concerned that illegal gambling continues because of the change in legislation that allows
establishments to keep their machines until the new ones come on-line. Many people are under
the false impression that these machines are legal because no machines were removed. Who will
be charged with enforcing the video gambling act in thousands of locations statewide, this Board,
local law enforcement? Who will pay for the cost of enforcement for this flawed legislation?
While politicians who helped pass the legislation and those who will profit from gambling are
anxious to see the Video gaming Act implemented very quickly, this Board must continue to take
the time that is needed to draft rules to strictly regulate video gambling and to thoroughly
investigate all individuals, businesses, and companies before issuing any video gambling
licenses. We support your efforts to inform the public about the demands being placed on the
Board and ask for statewide public hearings on ALL proposed rules. We ask that the Board
consider a method to accept and encourage written public comment as not everyone can travel to
Chicago for a meeting.
Thank you for your time. I can assure you that when we meet with Governor Quinn, we will ask
him to Veto SB744.
Member Gardner questioned Ms. Bedell in her comment where she stated “it is imperative that a
more thorough investigation be conducted by the IGB rather than a simple background check
before any licenses are issued”. Member Gardner asked “You don’t mean that all applicants
should be investigated before any licenses are issued, you mean that after each applicant is
thoroughly investigated then that applicant may be licensed”. Ms. Bedell stated that is exactly
what she meant.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS●

Items for Consideration –
●

Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Aristocrat Technologies, Inc., for
Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses effective August 9, 2011 for a period
of one (1) year, expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

American Vending Sales, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve American Vending Sales, Inc., for a
Distributor’s License, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,

6

 expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Bally Gaming, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Bally Gaming, Inc., for Manufacturer,
Distributor and Supplier Licenses effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one
(1) year, expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Elite Casino Products, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Elite Casino Products, Inc., for Manufacturer
and Distributor Licenses, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1)
year, expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

H. Betti Industries, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve H. Betti, Inc., for a Distributor License,
effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in August, 2012.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

International Game Technology – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve International Game Technology, for
Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses, effective August 9, 2011 for a period
of one (1) year, expiring in August, 2012. Member Moore seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Incredible Technologies, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Incredible Technologies, Inc., for
Manufacturer and Distributor Licenses, effective August 9, 2011 for a period
of one (1) year, expiring in August, 2012. Member Moore seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 ●

JCM American Corporation – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve JCM American Corporation, for a Supplier
License, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in
August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Moss Gaming, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Moss Gaming, Inc., for a Distributor License,
effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in August, 2012.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

MTD Gaming, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve MTD Gaming, Inc., for Manufacturer and
Distributor Licenses, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,
expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

WMS Gaming, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve WMS Gaming, Inc., for Manufacturer and
Distributor Licenses, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,
expiring in August, 2012. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Happ Illinois Distribution, Inc. – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Happ Illinois Distribution, Inc., for a
Distributor License, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,
expiring in August, 2012. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

American Gaming & Electronics – New Licensee
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve American Gaming & Electronics, for a
Distributor License, effective August 9, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,

8

 expiring in August, 2012. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 2:17 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Moore seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 