STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on July 7, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:05 A.M.— 160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; Keith Snyder, Member of
the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the State Panel; Robert M. Gierut, Local Panel Chairman; Charles
E. Anderson, Member of the Local Panel; Richard Lewis, Member of the Local Panel; Melissa Mlynski,
Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna
Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the May 19, 2015, meeting. Member Anderson
moved to approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
IV.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski presented the fiscal, legislative and mediation reports. The Chair and Members
discussed the reports.
V.

LITIGATION REPORT

Deputy General Counsel Kerley presented and discussed the litigation report. The Chair and Members
discussed the report.
VI.

JOINT BOARD ACTIONS

Executive Director Mlynski introduced the topic of amending the administrative rules, on both an emergency
and permanent, in response to anticipated budgetary constraints. Deputy General Counsel Kerley presented
the revisions to the Board’s rules regarding cost of hearing transcripts and other court reporter-related costs.
The Board discussed it. Local Panel Chairman Gierut moved to approve the rule changes. Member Coli
seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then moved to approve
the filing of the rule change as an emergency rulemaking. Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII

EXECUTIVE SESSTION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss
minutes of meetings lawfully closed under the Open Meetings Act, for purposes of approval by the body of the
minutes and semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings
Act. 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21). Local Panel Chairman Gierut seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to
leave executive session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member Samolis seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VIII

OTHER JOINT BOARD ACTIONS

Member Coli moved to approve executive session minutes from the May 19, 2015 joint meeting. Member
Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a
motion to keep all executive session minutes closed. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IX.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of August, 2015.

2

 