MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
APRIL 22, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, April 22, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago,
Illinois.
On Tuesday, April 22, 2008 at 11:15 a.m. the following Board Members were present: Chairman
Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
At 11:15 a.m. on Tuesday, April 22, 2008, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:00 p.m. The Board went into
open session at 1:10 p.m.
Roll call vote was taken at the start of the open session with Chairman Jaffe, Members Gardner,
Winkler, Sullivan and Moore present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 19, 2008, and the Special Meeting of March 25, 2008.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of March 19, 2008. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved to make available for public inspection all portions of closed session
minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from January 2007 through December 2007, for
which the need for confidentiality no longer exists. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 BOARD POLICY ITEMS –
Proposed Rules

• Rule 3000.245 – Second Notice Filing and Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.245 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing
of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made during the Second
Notice process. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

• Rule 3000.100 – Second Notice Filing and Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.100 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing
of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made during the Second
Notice process. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

• Rule 3000.635 – Second Notice Filing and Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule 3000.635 for
Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing
of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made during the Second
Notice process. Member Winkler seconded them motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS The Chairman addressed the Special Meeting of April 8, 2008 in which 24-hour gaming was
addressed. The Chairman stated that the current hours of gaming will remain. The proponents
have not presented adequate reasons to change the hours of gaming.
The matter could be
revisited in the future.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
Member Gardner stated that there were not any potential economic benefits presented in favor of
24-hour gaming, therefore agreeing with the Chairman. Member Winkler stated the human costs
were far too great to expand the hours of operation. The Board takes the SEP rules very

2

 seriously; Member Winkler stated that he felt going to 24-hour gaming would place the SEP’s in
jeopardy.
ADMINSITRATOR’S REPORT Administrator Ostrowski announced that the General Manager’s meeting will take place on the
23rd of April, at 9:00 a.m. The Administrator praised the industry for attending the Minority
Business Fair at Navy Pier. Board Member Joe Moore was in attendance. The Administrator
attended along with Bruce Banks, Deputy Administrator of Enforcement. The Administrator and
Gene O’Shea attended a meeting at the Illinois Council of Problem Gambling.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –

• Harrah’s Joliet – Philippe G. Khouri, Vice President of Operations Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve Philippe G. Khouri as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of Vice
President of Operations at Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel in Joliet, Illinois. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner congratulated Mr. Khouri on his career path.
● Par-A-Dice – David L. Chandler, Midwest and South Regional Director of Surveillance of
Boyd Gaming, Inc. – Key Person
Member Winkler stated that he has very serous doubts with Mr. Chandler regarding his
suitability. He stated that he was not certain about Mr. Chandler being licensed.
Chairman Jaffe also stated that he had reservations about licensing Mr. Chandler.
Member Moore voted with reservations, as well as Members Gardner, Sullivan and Winkler.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board approve David L. Chandler as a Key Person for Boyd Gaming, Inc. as
Midwest and South Regional Director of Surveillance. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. Member Winkler opposed the motion. The motion passed 4 to 1.
● Par-A-Dice – Michael F. Bond, Vice President of Internal Audit of Boyd Gaming, Inc. – Key
Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Michael F. Bond as a Key Person for Boyd Gaming, Inc. as Vice
President of Internal Audit. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
approve 25 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 114 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.

Bryan Cole and
Joseph J. Solis II.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Jeffrey Meyer – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Jeffrey Meyer, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose his October 20, 2007 arrest.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board suspend Jeffrey Meyer’s occupational
license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Frederick C. Bownes, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Frederick C. Bownes, an occupational
licensee, for his conviction of felony Criminal Trespass to Residence.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Frederick C. Bownes’
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

4

 •

Sarah L. Stanley, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Sarah L. Stanley, an occupational
licensee, based on her admission that she took currency from the Empress Casino’s
main bank on at least two occasions.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Sarah L. Stanley’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

•

Matthew D. McCracken, Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Matthew D. McCracken, an
occupational licensee, based on his taking a number of lottery tickets that he was
supposed to be distributing to patrons during a promotion at Metropolis Casino.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Matthew D. McCracken’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

●

Par-A-Dice Casino, d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino, an Owner Licensee and Nicholas
Tornow and Janet Timian, Level 3 Occupational Licensees
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation
d/b/a Par-A-Dice Casino an Owner Licensee, Nicholas Tornow, an occupational
licensee and Janet Timian, an occupational licensee, for its and their involvement in
not following procedures to incorporate a database of self-excluded persons into a
mailing list and failing to check the mailing list which resulted in 24 self-excluded
persons receiving Par-A-Dice promotional fliers.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board fine Par-A-Dice $25,000.00, suspend
Nicholas Tornow’s occupational license 5 days without pay and suspend Janet
Timian’s occupational license 5 days without pay. Said action to take affect twentyone (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. Member
Gardner opposed the motion. The motion passed 4 to 1.

5

 Member Gardner stated that he opposes the motion, being the fine is inadequate.

•

Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino, an Owner Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Alton Belle Casino, an Owner
Licensee due to the failure of its slot department to follow procedures for the
installation of locks on bill validator drop boxes which resulted in a number of drop
boxes that were missing parts to be placed on the gaming floor.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board fine Alton Belle Casino $50,000.00.
Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

Administrator Ostrowski announced that Commander Tigera is being re-assigned as Commander
of Region I and Lt. Bruce Banks is now the Deputy Administrator of Enforcement.
Administrator Ostrowski thanked Commander Tigera for his service to the IGB.
Member Winkler stated that working with Commander Tigera was a pleasure and wished him
well.
Member Moore wished Commander Tigera well as did the Chairman, Member Sullivan and
Member Gardner.
ADJOURNMENT At 1:45 p.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Gardner seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 