MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
SPECIAL MEETING NO. 2012-06-01
JUNE 13, 2012
A special meeting of the Retirement Board of the Municipal Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit Fund was held in the Fund offices on June 13, 2012 in order to interview
potential Mezzanine Fund Managers and to update the Board on legislative and legal
issues involving the Fund. The meeting was called to order at 9:10 a.m.
PRESESNT:
John K. Gibson – President (departed meeting at 10:30 a.m.)
Stephanie D. Neely – Treasurer
Martin J. Durkan - Recording Secretary
Timothy G. Guest – Trustee
Thomas Latzke – Deputy City Treasurer (Proxy for the Treasurer)
Jeremy Fine – Deputy City Comptroller (Proxy for the Vice President)
James Mohler – Executive Director
Michael Walsh – Chief Investment Officer
Jamie Wesner – Marquette Associates
Nat Kellogg – Marquette Associates
Mary Patricia Burns – Attorney-at-Law (arrived at 11:00 a.m.)
Robert Molaro – RSM Associates (arrived at 11:00 a.m.)
Stacey Ruffolo – Executive Assistant (participated at 11:45 a.m.)
ABSENT:
Amer Ahmad – Vice President
Mezzanine Investment Manager Presentations
The Board interviewed four Mezzanine Fund Managers who had successfully responded
to the Fund’s manager search process. Following is a list of the companies and their
representatives:
Whiley & Companie
Venita Fields
Mark Evan
George Thompson
Prudential Capital Partners
Jeff Dickson
Mark Hoffmeister
Midwest Mezzanine Funds
Dave Gezon
Mike Foster
Crescent Mezzanine
Chris Wright
Mark DeVincentis

 At the conclusion of the presentations, the Board thanked each manager for their
presentation.
No actions were taken.
Legislative Update
Robert Molaro, Legislative liaison, updated the Board on the current status of legislation
that may affect the Fund. No actions were taken.
Legal Update
Investment Policy Discussion / Legal Issues
The Board moved into closed session at 12:15 p.m. in accordance with ILCS
120/2(c)(11) and (7) to discuss issues related to investment contracts and litigation which
involves the Fund. Motion by Ms. Neely. Second by Mr. Guest.
Roll call:
Mr. Durkan
Mr. Guest
Ms. Neely

aye
aye
aye

Motion carried.
The Board moved into open session at 12:55 p.m. on a motion by Ms. Neely. Second by
Mr. Guest. Carried by a voice vote.
No actions taken.

With no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 12:57
p.m.

 