MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
July 24, 2001
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on July 24, 2001, in the
Sauganash West Ballroom at the Holiday Inn, Chicago Mart Plaza, 350 North Orleans
Street, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory C. Jones and Members
Robert Mariano, Ira Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, and Stuart P. Levine.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan S. McDonald, Thomas Swoik, James W. Wagner, and Deputy Chief Legal
Counsel Jeannette P. Tamayo, as well as other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones convened the July 24, 2001 Regular Meeting at 9:40 A.M. in the
Shakespeare Conference Room at the Holiday Inn, Chicago Mart Plaza, 350 North
Orleans Street, Chicago, Illinois. Member Levine moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the
Open Meetings Act, and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent, and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:00 P.M.

 Chairman Jones welcomed the two new Board members, Elzie Higginbottom and Robert
Mariano, who were both appointed effective July 1, 2001 by Governor Ryan. Chairman
Jones stated that the two new members have replaced former Board members Staci Yandle
and Mac Ryder, whose terms expired on June 30, 2001. Chairman Jones commended Ms.
Yandle and Mr. Ryder for their outstanding services and commitment to the Board.
Chairman Jones stated that both Ms. Yandle and Mr. Ryder were dedicated to public service
and to the Riverboat Gaming Act’s goals of promoting investment and economic
development, and that they had done so in a manner that inspired confidence and public trust
in the integrity of gaming operations and the regulatory process.
Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes
Member Higginbottom moved that all portions of the closed session minutes of the Illinois
Gaming Board from December 5, 2000 through and including May 30, 2001, for which
the need for confidentiality no longer exists be made available for public inspection in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act.
Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
NEW BUSINESS ITEMS
MOTION TO PLACE ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT d/b/a GRAND VICTORIA
RIVERBOAT CASINO ON THE AGENDA
Member Mariano moved that, the discussion of a proposed settlement in the
administrative hearing entitled “In re the Disciplinary Action of Elgin Riverboat Resort
d/b/a Grand Victoria Riverboat Casino be placed on the public agenda for deliberation
and decision. Member Mariano further moved that the Agenda for open session for
today’s meeting be amended to include “Administrative Hearings - Elgin Riverboat
Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Riverboat Casino” as topic number 13. Member Levine
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
MOTION TO PLACE DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINTS AND ARGOSY GAMING
COMPANY ON THE AGENDA
Member Levine moved that the Board add "Disciplinary Complaints" to the Agenda.
Member Levine further moved that the discussion of a proposed Disciplinary Complaint
and proposed settlement of that Disciplinary Complaint be placed on the public agenda
for deliberation and decision. Member Levine further moved that the Agenda for the
open session for today's meeting be amended to include "Disciplinary Complaints Argosy Gaming Company" as topic number 14. Member Mariano seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

2

 Administrator’s Report
Administrator Acosta welcomed the new Board members and stated that he looks forward to
working with them in the future. Administrator Acosta stated that staff had great admiration
and affection for former Board members Staci Yandle and Mac Ryder. Administrator Acosta
stated that Ms. Yandle and Mr. Ryder were dedicated public servants, who did the right thing
for the right reasons. Administrator Acosta stated that staff has great respect for Ms. Yandle
and Mr. Ryder and wish them the best. Administrator Acosta recognized Greta Doumanian,
who is no longer with the Gaming Board. Administrator Acosta stated that Ms. Doumanian
served for about 2 ½ years on the Gaming Board’s Legal staff, and that she did an
outstanding job. Administrator Acosta stated that staff wishes her well in her new pursuits.
Public Commentary
Wayne A. Johnson, Chief Investigator, Chicago Crime Commission, was present to discuss
Emerald Casino’s application. Mr. Johnson stated that the Emerald investors continue to
include individuals who are business associates of organized crime. Mr. Johnson stated that
in addition, the project still continues to be plaqued with the likelihood that individuals and
companies associated with organized crime will worm their way into the construction and
operation of Emerald Casino and Rosemont. On behalf of the Chicago Crime Commission,
Mr. Johnson urged the Board to reaffirm its decision of January 2001 and reject the Emerald
application.
Susan S. Gouinlock, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association, was present to
discuss two projects that the ICGA is working on, Responsible Gaming Education Week
2001 and the Illinois Coalition to Curve Problem Gambling in Illinois. The coalition is a
task force that ICGA has been developing to bring together public and private organizations
to address problem gambling in Illinois today. Ms. Gouinlock stated that since 1998 the
Casino Industry’s national trade association, the American Gaming Association, has
organized Responsible Gaming Week to raise awareness of problem gambling and to
promote responsible gambling across the United States. Ms. Gouinlock announced that
Responsible Gaming Education Week 2001 will take place August 6 th – 10th . Ms. Gouinlock
stated that during that week, each Illinois casino will be conducting special events with its
employees and its communities related to problem gambling. Ms. Gouinlock stated that
some of the activities would include employee meetings to discuss problem gambling,
meetings of mental health providers and local officials, and essay contest among employees
to promote awareness of problem gambling.

3

 Tom Grey, Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was present
to discuss the regulation of gambling. Mr. Grey stated that the regulatory process changed
with the election of Governor Ryan who created a “let’s make a deal atmosphere”, which
creates the problem that the new Board is now facing. Mr. Grey stated that in January of this
year, staff recommended rejection of the Emerald license and the Board accepted and voted
to reject it. Mr. Grey stated that from a public perspective, this decision created a sense that
the regulatory process was working to safeguard the public from the “insidious influence of
organized crime.” Mr. Grey stated that the original deal makers campaigned in Springfield
using pro-gambling legislators to find a way to get the deal done by introducing a bill to
merge the Racing Board and the Gaming Board, then by introducing a bill to add two
additional members to the Board. Mr. Grey stated that the Governor chose not to take a
position on the bills and then the legislature chose not to go forward. Mr. Grey stated that
then out of the blue the Governor replaced two members who voted “no” to the Emerald
Casino with two new members using the rational that they would provide new business
insight to the Emerald litigation that is ongoing. Mr. Grey stated that in the public’s eye, this
was a clear act to subvert the regulatory process. Mr. Grey asked the three most recent
elected Board members to declare their willingness to ensure the public’s confidence and
integrity of the regulatory process by recusing themselves of any action upon the Emerald
license.
Isaac Jones, Publisher, The Austin Voice, was present to discuss discrimination involving
Illinois Casinos and their advertising policies. Mr. Jones stated that The Austin Voice is a
free newspaper that is totally supported by advertising revenue. Mr. Jones stated that
through its 16 year history, The Austin Voice has built a large and loyal readership who
knows that the paper does not accept all businesses who come to it seeking to place
advertisements in the paper. Mr. Jones stated that since casinos have been legal in the State
of Illinois, The Austin Voice has actively solicited advertisements for all riverboat casinos in
Northern Illinois and have been refused or ignored each time. Mr. Jones stated that a review
of all Black newspapers in Chicago reveals that none of them regularly carry casino
advertisements, while hundreds of thousands of dollars of advertisement are purchased
annually by casinos in White owned newspapers. Mr. Jones recommended that casinos place
ads in ethnic and neighborhood newspapers. Mr. Jones offered to share his expertise with
the casinos on advertising agencies and how to effectively reach the African-American
market.
Mr. and Mrs. John Gabcik were present to discuss their son Larry Gabcik. Mr. Gabcik stated
that his son’s life ended due to a gambling addiction. Mr. Gabcik stated that Larry started
gambling in May of 1996, and from March of 1997 to his death in April, Larry bounced
around between living at homeless shelters, jail, and in apartments where he was constantly
evicted for not paying his rent. Mr. Gabcik stated that Larry constantly gambled whatever
money he could get his hands on. Mr. Gabcik stated that during the first month of Larry’s
gambling problem, he knew nothing about gambling as a compulsion. Mr. Gabcik stated that
by the time he realized that his son had a problem, he was so addicted that despite
counseling, religious guidance, and family, he could not stop gambling. Mr. Gabcik stated

4

 that whatever is being done about compulsive gambling is not nearly enough. Mr. Gabcik
urged the Board to make the public more aware of compulsive gambling.
Board Policy Items
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette Tamayo, stated that the Board previously authorized
First Notice filing of the proposed amendment to Board Rules 3000.100, 3000.271,
3000.650, and 3000.655. Ms. Tamayo stated that these rules deal with non-alterable storage
media. Ms. Tamayo stated that staff has proposed creating a definition for non-alterable
storage media and authorizing its use in Illinois and modifying the rules to allow
implementation of this technology. Ms. Tamayo stated that comments have been received
for nearly two years, all of which support the proposed change. Ms. Tamayo stated that the
Board recommended that staff submit the proposed rule changes to Gaming Laboratory
International, Inc. in February 2000 to obtain its assessment. Ms. Tamayo stated that the
response that staff received from GLI was very positive.
Member Higginbottom moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rules
3000.100, 3000.271, 3000.660 and 3000.665 for Second Notice Filing with the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and
publishing of the above-referenced rules, provided no material changes are made to
these rules during the Second Notice process.
Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Owner Licensee Items
HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – EXPANSION PROJECT – Chris Riley, Director of
Finance, was present on behalf of Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Mr. Riley presented the Board
with a slide presentation of Harrah’s barge construction project. Mr. Riley stated that all
Internal Control submissions for the transition phase, as well as the permanent changes have
been submitted, and Harrah’s is working closely with staff on it. Mr. Riley stated that the
project is on budget and on schedule for completion.
Chairman Jones asked Mr. Riley when the construction would be completed. Mr. Riley
stated that they are looking to complete construction by early October.
Member Higginbottom asked Mr. Riley if new positions would be added once the project is
completed. Mr. Riley stated that there would not be a need to add more and that they aren’t
going to require a Marine operation staff.

5

 Member Higginbottom asked if Harrah’s Casino Joliet had an Affirmative Action plan as it
relates to hiring and vendors that Harrah’s does business with. Mr. Riley stated that Harrah’s
has an affirmative action plan.
Member Mariano asked Mr. Riley if any of the retail space that Harrah’s is working on
would be set aside for local merchants or would all tenants be national. Mr. Riley stated that
there are some national tenants, however, he can’t say for sure who is on the list at this time
or whether it’s local or just national.
Mr. Mariano asked if there was an effort to ensure that someone from the Joliet area would
occupy one of the three spaces available for retail. Mr. Riley stated that he isn’t sure as of
yet, the details are still being worked out and no contracts have been set with any retail
vendors at this point.
Member Rogal asked if Harrah’s is working with the City of Joliet. Mr. Riley stated that
Harrah’s is working with the Joliet Chamber of Economic Development, who is doing the
marketing and selection of the retailers.
PLAYER’S CASINO – EXPANSION PROJECT – Mike Crider, Senior Vice President and
General Manager, was present on behalf of Players Casino. Mr. Crider gave the Board a
brief update and presented a film showing the status of Player’s expansion project. Mr.
Crider stated that Player’s anticipate opening the new boarding facilities with the restaurant
in mid August. Mr. Crider stated that in September, Player’s will introduce a new casino
vessel that is currently under renovation, which will offer approximately 30% more space
than the current facility offers.
Member Higginbottom asked if Player’s has an affirmative action program. Mr. Crider
stated that Player’s has an affirmative action program for its employees. Member
Higginbottom asked what percentage of the $42 million dollars in construction is going to
minorities. Mr. Crider apologized and stated that he does not have that information.
Member Mariano asked if the head count would be up, down, or remain the same after the
project is completed. Mr. Crider stated that Player’s expect an increase of about 10%.
Member Mariano asked if the 10% would be hired from within the area or would Player’s
move people from other areas. Mr. Crider stated that 95% or more would be hired from the
local communities.
Member Mariano asked if Player’s has a practice of promoting from within. Mr. Crider
stated that Player’s is in the practice of promoting within, and that he is involved in a process
for development of the staff within the organization. The amount of training provided and
the continued development of staff are critical components of our growth.
Member Mariano asked if Player’s encourage employees to continue on with their education.
Mr. Crider stated that that Player’s has a continued education program and a tuition
reimbursement program.
6

 Member Rogal asked what prompted the project. Mr. Crider stated that the acquisition of
Player’s by Harrah's was the major driving force. Mr. Crider stated that the acquisition by
Harrah’s last March and the evaluation of the facilities and the property and the potential for
the property were the major factors in driving the improvements necessary.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO – PROPOSED FACILITY RECONFIGURATION –Ed Pratt,
President of Hollywood Casino, was present on behalf of Hollywood to update the Board on
the status of its proposed facility reconfiguration. Mr. Pratt provided the Board with a slide
presentation. Mr. Pratt stated that the approximate cost of the project is $72 million dollars
and that the entire project is scheduled to be completed by June of next year.
Member Higginbottom asked Mr. Pratt about Hollywood’s affirmative action plan. Mr. Pratt
stated that in terms of employees, Hollywood has an affirmative action plan, however, in
terms of construction Hollywood has a general contractor, Wagman Construction, and that he
didn’t know the breakdown of minority workers but it is entirely built by local subcontractors.
Member Higginbottom stated that it seems to him that owners would encourage their general
contractors and people that they do business with to try to provide economic opportunities
for people who have missed economic opportunities in this state in the past. Mr. Pratt stated
that he agrees with Mr. Higginbottom 100% and that he thinks that is the case with Wagman
Construction. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood has always encouraged them to use local
labor, meaning directly out of Aurora and the surrounding cities and communities. Mr. Pratt
stated that he would be more than happy to provide the Board with the information that Mr.
Higginbottom is requesting.
Member Mariano asked Mr. Pratt questioned the number of positions today and asked what
would the number of positions be once the project is completed. Mr. Pratt stated that
Hollywood is currently at the maximum, 1200 positions, and that they would maintain that
number. The project allows Hollywood to have a more comfortable environment for its
customers. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood would have the same number of positions and
virtually almost twice the square footage. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood would have a
higher component of slot machines to gaming. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood’s gaming
positions are going down slightly and their number of slot machines is going up slightly.
Member Mariano asked Mr. Pratt what Hollywood’s procedures are to ensure that people
underage do not board the facility. Mr. Pratt stated that Hollywood has very strict underage
policies. Mr. Pratt stated that security is very tight in all entrances, and that if a person looks
remotely under the age of 26 security asks to see their identification.
CASINO QUEEN – LICENSE RENEWAL- Craig Travers, General Manager, was present
on behalf of Casino Queen to request license renewal.

7

 Administrator Acosta stated that staff did have some difficulty in getting some of the
information from some of the Key Persons. Administrator Acosta stated that staff has
discussed the issue with Mr. Travers and the other representatives of Casino Queen and staff
expects that in the future it would no longer be a problem. Administrator Acosta stated that
staff does recommend that the Board approve the renewal of Casino Queen’s license.
Mr. Travers stated that, Casino Queen addressed that issue during their final interview with
Mr. Acosta and staff. Mr. Travers stated that during Hollywood’s Board meeting, which
occurred three days later, they were very adamant with regards to ownership and getting
information supplied to not only Casino Queen, but to the Board in a more prompt manner.
Member Higginbottom stated that he understands from the staff’s report that Casino Queen
has been very aggressive in trying to provide economic opportunities in East St. Louis.
Member Higginbottom commended Mr. Travers and Casino Queen for its efforts. Member
Higginbottom stated that, economic opportunity is what we need because part of the Illinois
Gaming Board’s Act is about economic benefits. Mr. Travers stated that Casino Queen had
an agreement with the City of East St. Louis during their redevelopment project which
required a minimum of 25% minority participation in all construction phases and Casino
Queen exceeded that percentage.
Chairman Jones stated that another area that had been a problem is underage gambling,
however, Casino Queen has properly and aggressively addressed that issue. Chairman Jones
stated that he thinks Casino Queen cards far more in percentage of their visitors than any
other casino.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved
that the Board approve the Owner's License of the Casino Queen, Inc. for a term of 4
years expiring in July 2005.
Member Levine further moved that, based on the staff’s investigation and
recommendation the Board certify and approve the following positions and persons as
Key Persons of the Casino Queen, Inc.:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

President;
Directors of the Board;
Charles W. Bidwill;
Michael J. Gaughan;
Michael B. Growney;
Patrick B. Kenny;
James G. Koman;
William J. Koman, Sr.;
William J. Koman, Jr.;
Timothy J. Rand; and
Franklin Toti.

8

 Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
CASINO QUEEN – REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LEASE FINANCING
AGREEMENT – Craig Travers, General Manager, was present on behalf of Casino Queen to
request approval of its lease financing agreement.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigations and recommendation, Member Rogal moved
that the Board approve Casino Queen’s request to enter into a lease financing
agreement with Banc of America Leasing & Capital, LLC for an amount not to exceed
$3.5 Million and delegate to the Administrator, under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final
approval of the transaction upon execution of the appropriate documents. Member
Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
ARGOSY/EMPRESS ACQUISITION – Member Rogal stated that, based on the advice of
counsel, he is not voting or participating in the discussion on this issue, due to the fact that
his partner is a partner in a hotel in Springfield and has been for many years.
Mr. William Kunkle was present on behalf of Horseshoe Gaming Corp., and Mr. Don Malloy
was present on behalf of Argosy to request final approval of the Argosy/Empress acquisition.
Administrator Acosta stated that staff has undertaken a very thorough investigation regarding
the proposed transaction for a number of months. Administrator Acosta stated that there are
no concerns with respect to the financial aspect of the transaction, however, one area that is
of significant concern to staff is the relationship between Argosy Gaming and Nii-jii.
Administrator Acosta stated that Nii-jii is a company in which Argosy is involved with
respect to an Indian gaming facility in Wisconsin. Administrator Acosta stated that staff’s
concerns related to the lack of appropriate due-diligence on the part of Argosy Gaming prior
to entering into its contractual relationship with Nii-jii. Administrator Acosta stated that
there is an affirmative obligation on the part of our licensees and the Key Persons of our
licensees to check out other individuals prior to entering into business associations with
them. Administrator Acosta stated that it is staff’s opinion that in this particular case,
Argosy did not conduct an appropriate due-diligence investigation. Administrator Acosta
stated that staff has serious concerns about some of the business practices of Nii-jii, as well
as certain associations involving one of the principles of Niijii in terms of his past business
associations. Administrator Acosta stated that staff is recommending that the Board issue a
disciplinary complaint against Argosy Gaming for its failure to conduct an appropriate duediligence investigation of Nii-jii. Administrator Acosta stated that once staff became aware
of this issue and started investigating it, Argosy, and its management fully cooperated and
have readily conceded that more could have been done prior to them entering into the
business arrangement with Niijii. Administrator Acosta stated that staff appreciates Argosy’s
candor and their assistance during the course of the investigation. Therefore although staff is
recommending a disciplinary action, staff is, at the same time, recommending that the Board
approve the proposed transaction. Administrator Acosta stated that staff is recommending
9

 that the Board condition its approval to ensure that Argosy will disassociate itself from Niijii. Administrator Acosta stated that staff is also recommending that Argosy submit to the
Administrator within a short period of time, a comprehensive due-diligence plan to be
implemented by Argosy and its affiliates in Illinois with respect to any future business
dealings or proposed management contracts so that the problems that have arisen in this case
could be avoided in the future.
Member Mariano offered the following resolution:
Whereas, Argosy Gaming Company (hereafter “Argosy”) and Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation (hereafter “Empress”) have entered into an Agreement and Plan of
Merger, pursuant to which Empress will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Argosy,
("Acquisition"); and
Whereas, Argosy, through its subsidiaries, will be the holder of a one hundred percent
(100%) ownership interest in the Empress; and
Whereas, Argosy and Empress Casino Joliet Corporation consent to receive, and
commit not to appeal the issuance of, a restricted license for a term of one year expiring
in July 2002; and
Whereas, following the Acquisition, Argosy, through its subsidiaries, will own two
ownership interests under the Riverboat Gambling Act, 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq., (the
“Act”); and
Whereas, Public Act 91-40 deleted Section 7(a)(7) of the Act, which previously provided
that; “[a] person, firm or corporation is ineligible to receive an owner’s license if … the
person, firm or corporation owns more than a 10% ownership interest in an entity
holding an owner’s license issued under [the] act”; and
Whereas, because of a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of Public Act 91-40,
which became effective June 25, 1999, there is a possibility that Public Act 91-40 and/or
any single provision contained therein may be found to be invalid, and that Section
7(a)(7) of the Act, as it existed, may be reinstated; and
Whereas, the Board has received an agreement, executed by Argosy, providing that in
the event Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated, Argosy shall, within one day of such
determination, transfer its ownership interest in Empress to a trust; and
Whereas, the Board has also received an agreement executed by LaSalle Bank National
Association, wherein LaSalle Bank National Association agrees to hold the ownership
interest in Empress in trust in the event Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated; and

10

 Whereas, the Board has agreed that, if Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated into law
and Argosy transfers its ownership interest in Empress to a trustee, Argosy or a
subsidiary of Argosy may function as a manager of Empress under the terms of
Acquisition, attached to the Transfer of Ownership Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE,
Be it resolved, that, on this date, the Board approves the Acquisition.
Be it resolved, that the Board approves the request of Argosy Gaming Company for
additional financing of up to $475 Million in debt and delegates to the Administrator,
under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of
the appropriate documents.
Be it resolved, that the Board approves the renewal of the Owner's License of the
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation for a restricted term of one year expiring in July
2002, as provided in Section 14 of the Board's January 30, 2001 Empress Casino Joliet
Settlement Agreement.
Be it resolved, that the Board finds the initial finding of unsuitability contained in the
June 30, 2000 Notice of Denial issued against the Empress Casino Joliet Corporation
has no effect upon Argosy Gaming Company.
Be it resolved, that the Board approves the Trust Agreement and Transfer of
Ownership Agreement by and between Argosy, LaSalle Bank National Association and
this Board.
Be it further resolved, that the Board adopts the Management Agreement, as an
Exhibit to the Transfer of Ownership Agreement, to be executed pursuant to its terms.
Further, be it resolved that, in the event Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated and
Argosy transfers its ownership interest in Empress to a trust as set forth under the
Trust Agreement, executed as of this date, the Board, pursuant to Board Rule 3000.260,
waives application of the definition of Supplier under Board Rule 3000.100 for the
purpose of permitting Argosy to operate as the manager of Empress, pursuant to the
Management Agreement, provided, however, that Argosy maintains the eligibility and
suitability requirements of an Owner as set forth under Section 7 of the Act, exclusive
of Section 7(a)(7).

11

 Member Mariano moved that the Board adopt this Resolution and impose the following
conditions:
1.

Argosy Gaming Company and its affiliates shall immediately
undertake all steps necessary to economically disassociate
themselves with NII-JII Entertainment, LLC by no later than
October 1, 2001.

2.

Argosy Gaming Company shall, within 15 days, develop a
comprehensive due diligence plan, subject to the approval of the
Administrator, to ensure the integrity and accountability of those
persons or entities with whom it or its Illinois affiliates conducts
business and shall implement fully the approved plan within 15
days after approval by the Administrator.

Member Mariano further moved that, based on the staff’s investigation and
recommendation the Board certify and approve the following entity, positions and
persons as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Argosy Gaming Company
Directors of the Board of the Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation;
President of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation;
Chief Executive Officer of Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation;
Executive Director of Internal Audit of Empress Casino
Joliet Corporation;
William F. Cellini;
F. Lance Callis;
James B. Perry;
William John McEnery; and
James A. Gulbrandsen.

Member Mariano further moved that, pursuant to Section 6 of the Board's January 30,
2001 Empress Casino Joliet Settlement Agreement, the Board:
1.

Accept Mr. Jack Binion's request to withdraw his application as a
Key Person of the Empress Casino Joliet Corporation.

2.

Accept the request of the Empress Casino Joliet Corporation to
withdraw as moot that portion of its July 26, 2000 Verified Request
for Hearing that relates to Mr. Jack Binion; and

12

 3.

Determine that its initial finding of unsuitability, as to Mr. Jack
Binion only, has become moot and without legal or practical
significance for the purposes of licensing the Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation in Illinois.

Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion by a 4-0 vote.
Member Rogal recused himself from this vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – RECONFIGURATION – Donna More, Attorney, and Ron
Wicks, President of Casino Rock Island, were present on behalf of Casino Rock Island to
request approval of Rock Island’s proposed reconfiguration. Mr. Wicks stated that at the
last meeting Casino Rock Island submitted a plan to expand the current configuration of the
Ockerson Barge at the facility. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island would like to
increase the number of slot machines by 125 and place 45 additional devices from the current
casino. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island is currently under engineering design and
should have some final detailed drawings and specifications for Administrator Acosta to look
at upon approval of the Board. In response to an inquiry by Member Rogal at last month’s
meeting, Mr. Wicks stated that revenue impact to the State of Illinois due to the expansion is
$1.1 million dollars and approximately $500,000 dollars for the City of Rock Island.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved
that the Board authorize Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.("RIB") to proceed with its
proposed reconfiguration project. The approval of the reconfiguration project is
subject to RIB periodically, as directed by staff, updating the Board on the progress of
the project and confirming approval of its project from the State Fire Marshal and
other appropriate authorities. Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – SITE PROPOSAL – Donna More was present on behalf of
Casino Rock Island to request approval for Casino Rock Island’s site proposal. Ms More
stated that the Board requested the AG to issue an opinion as to whether or not the Board had
the authority to consider the issue of whether Casino Rock Island could make this intracommunity move. Ms. More stated that she received the Attorney General’s opinion right
before the Board met last month. Ms More stated that Casino Rock Island has had an
opportunity to review the AG opinion and she believes that the opinion doesn’t take into
account the implied authority that the Board has. Ms. More stated that she thinks that over
the past twelve years this Board has taken numerous actions pursuant to its implied authority,
and has done so because when the legislature passed the Riverboat Gambling Act, it could
not foresee every eventuality that a Board or an agency would have to consider. She further
stated that the administrative case law also recognized this authority and gives agencies, not
just the Gaming Board, all of its implied authorities that can be gathered from the enabling
act. Ms. More stated that one of the issues that specifically this Board had the authority to
take action on is safety of patrons. Ms. More stated that in this particular instance with
Casino Rock Island, if there is a location within the city of Rock Island that can afford even
greater safety to the patrons and it’s within the four corners of the Act, it seems that there
13

 would be no reason why this Board could not take an action that would allow greater patron
safety. Ms. More stated that the Attorney General’s opinion does not address patron safety at
all. Ms. More stated that the Attorney General’s opinion has a very short discussion about
economic development. Ms. More stated that in terms of economic development and
promoting tourism in the City of Rock Island, the casino as well as the city, and the Mayor,
have all said that the current location on the riverfront does not provide the ability to expand.
Ms. More stated that the Attorney General’s opinion discusses the whole concept of “on the
Mississippi” and that Casino Rock Island is one of the boats that is specified to be on the
Mississippi. Ms. More stated that Casino Rock Island has also addressed that issue in their
submissions to the Board and staff and reviewed legislative history. Ms. More stated that her
opinion of the review of legislative history is that what was intended was that Mississippi
towns would be revitalized by the passage of this Riverboat Gambling Act. Ms. More stated
that it was not the Mississippi River itself that needed an increase in river traffic, it was the
towns that were depressed along the river. Ms. More stated that the concern when this was
passed was that it was these towns that would continue to get the benefit of riverboat
gambling and in fact, Rock Island’s proposal keeps it within the City of Rock Island. Ms
More stated that it’s the same community that they propose to move within and it’s this
community, as well as the owners of Casino Rock Island, that think there is a better location
that meets the requirements of the Act. Ms. More stated that this new location is on
Mississippi waters. Ms. More stated that there is certainly nothing in the Act that says “on
the water” only applies to the boats in and around Cook County. Ms. More stated that based
on her review of the Act and the intent of the Act to have casinos contribute to tourism and
economic development, she thinks that this Board has the authority to allow an intracommunity move with the community in full support of it.
Administrator Acosta asked Ms. More if it’s Casino Rock Island’s position that its patrons
are in danger. Ms. More stated that it’s not Casino Rock Island’s position that its patrons are
in danger, but all boats along the Mississippi, because of traffic, have “potential” because of
where they are located. Ms. More stated that this Board, when it initially granted the license,
obviously looked at where the site was and approved the site and throughout the years when
there has been additional approvals, has approved different construction that the boat has
done. Ms. More stated that now that Casino Rock Island has the ability not to be on a
navigable waterway pursuant to the on the water provision, and with the idea of expanding to
promote economic development and tourism, she doesn’t feel that it’s prudent to expand at
the current location.
Administrator Acosta asked if the Coast Guard certifies, for purposes of Marine safety, the
current facility. Ms. More stated that that was correct.
Ms. More stated that at the end of last week, Rock Island filed a declaratory judgement
action. Ms. More introduced to the Board Mr. Tom Moffitt who is the lawyer handling the
lawsuit.

14

 Jeannette Tamayo stated that there is currently nothing that precludes the Board from taking
final action on Casino Rock Island’s request or addressing any of the safety concerns that
they have raised during their legal pleadings and in their presentation today. Ms. Tamayo
stated that staff has provided the Board with the Attorney General’s opinion and it is up to
the Board to determine, as matter of policy, whether to accept or not accept that opinion, and
secondly whether to take final action with regards to Casino Rock Island’s request.
Member Levine moved that the Board adopt the May 30, 2001, opinion issued by
Attorney General James E. Ryan as to the Board's authority to approve a relocation of
the riverboat gaming operation of the Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. Further, in reliance
upon that opinion, he moved that the Board deny the request of Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. to relocate its riverboat gaming operation from its authorized dock on
the Mississippi River to another location inland within the same community. Member
Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Moffitt asked the Board if Casino Rock Island would receive a Notice of Denial. Ms.
Tamayo stated that as a procedural matter, Casino Rock Island would receive a Notice of
Denial.
Mr. Moffitt asked when the notice would be issued. Ms. Tamayo stated that it would be
issued within the next few days.
Mr. Moffitt asked Ms. Tamayo when Casino Rock Island would be able to receive an
Administrative Hearing once the Notice of Denial is issued. Ms. Tamayo stated that it would
be up to him to determine what the legal recourse is at that point.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – PAM JONES, INTERNAL AUDITOR – LEVEL ONE –Donna
More was present on behalf of Pam Jones to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Mariano moved
that the Board approve Pam Jones as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – SYLVIA WICKS – KEY PERSON – Donna More was present
on behalf of Sylvia Wicks to request approval as a Key Person.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board certify and approve Sylvia Wicks as a Key Person of Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – MICHAEL ST. PIERRE, GENERAL MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Karen Wosnack was present on behalf of Michael St. Pierre to request
approval as a Level One.
15

 Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve Michael St. Pierre as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Casino Cruises Joliet.
Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
ALTON BELLE CASINO – EWIN KNEZEVICH, SECURITY – LEVEL ONE – Don
Malloy was present on behalf of Ewin Knezevich to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Mariano
moved that the Board approve Ewin Knezevich as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee
of Alton Gaming Company. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Suppliers Licensee Items
SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL – SHUFFLE MASTER, INC. –
LICENSE RENEWAL – Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member
Mariano moved the Board approve the Supplier’s license of Shuffle Master, Inc. for a
term of 4 years expiring 2005, and impose the following conditions:
1.

Notify the Board on a timely basis when changes in Key
Persons are made; and

2.

Install, within one year, video surveillance technology to monitor at
all times its storage facilities for E-PROMs, including but not
limited to, the current and proposed
E-PROMs storage room.

Member Mariano further moved that, based on the staff’s investigation and
recommendation, the Board to certify the following positions as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
President; and
2.
Chief Executive Officer.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

16

 Occupational Licensees
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve 123 applications for an Occupational License Level 2, and 466
applications for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Levine further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to the following six applicants for Level 2 and 3 licenses, each of
whom previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and did
not respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Reynaldo Berrios;
Christine M. Bungard;
Laura A. Danner;
Jennifer L. Hoffman;
Leroy Randell; and
Jackie Williams-Cotton.

Member Mariano seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
In re the Disciplinary Action of Elgin Riverboat Resorts d/b/a Grand Victoria
Based on the joint presentation by counsel and staff's recommendation, Member
Higginbottom moved that the Board accept the proposed settlement agreement and
delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such agreement. Further, he
moved that the Board authorize legal counsel to present the proposed settlement
agreement to Administrative Law Judge Jeffrey Shapiro for disposition of this matter
in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement. Member Mariano seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Disciplinary Complaint
For the reasons stated by staff, Member Mariano moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary
Complaint against the Argosy Gaming Company, a Key Person, for its failure to
comply with Board Rules 3000.110 and 3000.222 in not conducting appropriate and
reasonable due diligence regarding the contractors with which it and its affiliates
conduct business, and thus, not maintaining its suitability.

17

 Member Mariano further moved that the Board impose a fine of $100,000 on Argosy
Gaming Company, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee fails to file an Answer within that time
period.
Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion by a 4-0 vote.
Member Rogal recused himself from this vote.
At 4:15 Member Higginbottom moved to adjourn. Member Mariano seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

18

 