STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on December 15, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman of the Local Panel; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Local Panel; Richard Lewis,
Member of the Local Panel; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah
Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD ON NOVEMBER 17, 2015

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the November 17, 2015 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the report
and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. L-CA-13-059
Anthony Williams/Chicago Transit Authority

Chairman Gierut called the case. General Counsel Nelson noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Sanceda’s RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.

Case No. L-CA-16-006
Debra Larkins/Chicago Transit Authority

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(a) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended
that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to affirm the Executive
Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.

Case No. L-CB-15-038
Edward Brewer/International Brotherhood of Painters #4

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended
that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to affirm the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.

 4.

Case No. L-CB-15-042
Latricia Brazil/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended
that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to affirm the Executive
Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of January, 2016.

2

 