REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP)
Master Developer for the Purchase and Redevelopment
of the

Washington Park National Bank Building
6300 S. Cottage Grove, Chicago Illinois

Issued by: Cook County Land Bank Authority
Executive Director: Robert Rose
Minimum Bid Amount: $250,000
Due Date: October 31, 2018
Responses to be submitted in electronic format (Adobe PDF preferred) and
submitted to: info@CookCountyLandBank.org

CCLBA-2018

Page  1

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. GENERAL OVERVIEW

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Cook County Land Bank Authority
Project Overview
Location
Community Demographics
Corridor Development Initiative

B. PROJECT GOAL, DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY AND OBJECTIVES

1. Guiding Development Goals
2. Role of Master Developer
3. Description of Site
4. Zoning and Regulatory Ordinances
5. Public Transportation
6. Sustainability and Community Building
7. Environmental
8. Economy
9. Benefits of Historic Preservation
10. Social
11. Collaborations
C. INSTRUCTION TO PROPOSERS

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Definitions
RFP Process
Submission of Proposals
Significant Dates
Format and Content of Proposals

D. EVALUATION PROCESS AND CRITERIA

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Evaluation Committee
Evaluation of Submissions
Interviews and Oral Presentations
Negotiation with Selected Proposer
Presentation to Leadership
Evaluation Criteria

E. COUNTY ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

The Cook County Green Building Ordinance
The Cook County Green Construction Ordinance
Living Wage
Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises
Local Business Preference
Veteran’s Preferences and Incentives

F. SPECIAL CONDITIONS

CCLBA-2018

Page  2

 A.

GENERAL OVERVIEW
1. Cook County Land Bank Authority (CCLBA)
The CCLBA was established via Ordinance by the Cook County Board on
January 16, 2013. The CCLBA is the largest geographic land bank in the
country covering 946 square miles, encompassing 130 municipalities and
5.1 million people and is the first single purpose entity in Cook County to
focus solely on returning vacant and foreclosed property back to active and
productive use throughout the region. The CCLBA comprises a 15-member
governing board.
2. Project Overview
The Cook County Land Bank Authority (CCLBA) desires to select a development team
who will purchase and redevelop the Washington Park National Bank Building (the
Bank Building) in a manner which enhances the intersection central to the CTA’s 63rd &
Cottage Grove Green Line station, generates revenue for the County, and contributes
to a vibrant urban community context. The intersection of 63rd and Cottage Grove has
long been an important gateway to the Woodlawn community. In its heyday, 63rd street
was a thriving Woodlawn corridor on the South Side offering a range of retail and
entertainment options. Best known for Daley’s Restaurant and historic assets such as
the Grand Ballroom, the area has experienced new life in recent years with the
redevelopment of Grove Parc Plaza through the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development’s (HUD) Choice Neighborhoods Initiative and budding investment
sparked by the promise of nearby presidential center.
Note that at the north and southeast corners of the intersection, Preservation of
Affordable Housing (POAH) is leading a revitalization effort that includes construction of
Woodlawn Station, a mixed-use building with 15,00 sq. ft. of ground-level commercial
space and 55 residential units expected to be completed in the summer of 2018. POAH
also acquired a 22,000 sq. ft. commercial property across the street, which is slated for
future redevelopment. Central to the intersection is the Chicago Transit Authority’s
(CTA) 63rd & Cottage Grove Green Line station, which is the terminus of the eastern
branch of the Green Line. CTA will begin a $3 million project to upgrade the station in
2018.
The Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT) has also prioritized the intersection
for their Walk to Transit Program, a federally-funded initiative to improve pedestrian
safety and comfort for people walking within a ¼ mile of a transit station.
The Woodlawn community is simultaneously recovering from the foreclosure crisis
while also experiencing a boom. Multiple new, large-scale investments are occurring,
and Woodlawn is quickly becoming one of the hottest neighborhoods in the city.

3. Location
The project is the Washington Park National Bank Building which is located at 6300 S.
Cottage Grove, Chicago Illinois. The property is in the township of Hyde Park and in
the Woodlawn neighborhood.
The location of the project is eligible for the following tax incentives/investment zones.
Note that eligibility does not constitute approval. The winning bidder is solely
responsible for applying for these incentives and programs and approval is not
guaranteed:
CCLBA-2018

Page  3

 •

•

•

•

•

The Class 7b Incentive and its Benefits (See Exhibit H)
The Class 7b incentive of the Cook County Real Property Assessment
Classification Ordinance is intended to encourage, in areas determined to be “in
need of commercial development,” commercial projects with total development
cost, exclusive of land, over $2 million, which would not be economically
feasible without the incentive. The twelve-year incentive applies to all newly
constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are
situated; in reutilization of vacant structures abandoned for at least twenty-four
(24) months including the land upon which they are situated; or all buildings and
other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such
rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land related to the
rehabilitation.
The Class 7c Incentive and its Benefits (See Exhibit I)
The Class 7c incentive is the Commercial Urban Relief Eligibility (CURE) of the
Cook County Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance which is
intended to encourage commercial projects which would not be economically
feasible without assistance.
The Class 8 Incentive and its Benefits (See Exhibit J)
The Class 8 real estate tax incentive established by Cook County Real Property
Assessment Classification Ordinance is designed to encourage industrial and
commercial development in areas of the County which are experiencing severe
economic stagnation.
The Woodlawn Tax Increment Financing (TIF)
Tax Increment Financing is a special tool the City of Chicago can use to
generate money for economic development in a specific geographic area. TIFs
allow the City to re-invest all new property tax dollars in the neighborhood from
which they came for a 23-year period.
Opportunity Zone Qualified Census Tract (QCT)
The Opportunity Zones program was established by the Federal Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act of 2017. It encourages long-term investment and job creation within
under-invested areas by allowing investors to re-invest unrealized capital gains
in designated census tracts.

4. Community Demographics
The historic bank building is in the Woodlawn neighborhood. 63rd Street was
historically a vibrant commercial corridor, home to some of Chicago’s greatest jazz
clubs, but has experienced high vacancy and job loss over the past several decades in
part due to disinvestment and declining population. Over the last 60 years, Woodlawn
has lost over 50% population, falling to 24,150 in 2010. 85 percent of Woodlawn
residents are black or African American. In 2015, over 51% of Woodlawn households
earned less than $25,000 per year. The median purchase price of a home in
Woodlawn in 2010 was $162,392; the homeownership rate during the same year was
19 percent. Several hundred units of tax credit affordable housing have been
developed in the neighborhood recently.
Retail and Employment
Woodlawn has various types of retail structures. Fed Ex Office, Print & Ship Center,
University of Precise Consulting Services, LLC Tax Services, The University of Chicago
Booth School, University of Chicago Medical Center and various restaurants.
Woodlawn’s largest area of employment is the Health Care, Education and
Administration sector with 21% total Woodlawn employment in Health Care, followed by
CCLBA-2018

Page  4

 14% in Education and 9% individually in Administration, Accommodation, Food Service
as well as Retail.

5. Corridor Development Initiative
The CCLBA engaged the Metropolitan Planning Council (MPC) to conduct the Corridor
Development Initiative, a participatory planning process for community stakeholders.
The following summarizes the primary conclusions of the Woodlawn Corridor
Development Initiative.
a) The site should be developed as a commercial property with a mix of retail,
restaurants, professional services and nonprofit space.
b) Polling revealed the preferred height for the building should be consistent with the
existing structure and not exceed five stories.
c) Parking should be considered for only a portion of retail units.
d) Development should, to the extent possible, improve community health and safety.

B. PROJECT GOAL, DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY AND OBJECTIVES
1. Guiding Development Goals
The CCLBA recognizes that this assemblage of real estate in an attractive and growing
area represents a significant community-building opportunity, and one the CCLBA can
affect significant economic development. County leadership, through the President and
the Commissioners, is committed to achieving such through this solicitation. The
CCLBA’s focus with this Project is infusing high quality and much needed mixed-use
redevelopment to promote a vibrant neighborhood. Many opportunities exist to enhance
the community and create a new destination development due to the distinct qualities,
character and location of the building. With strong emphasis on ‘place making’ and
quality neighborhood environments, the urban and architectural design, in combination
with a create mix of program use, are critically important and will be a consideration in
the selection of the Developer.
To help guide the future redevelopment of 63rd street corridor the CCLBA has establish
the following primary objectives and parameters for the Project:
a) Redevelop the property with high quality, mixed-use development to serve the
Woodlawn and adjoining communities, and transform the property into an economic
and jobs generator with creativity in plan and program, excellence in architectural
design and long-term viability
b) Maximize the economic, social, historical, and ecological values of the property while
supplementing the offerings through new market rate development
c) Establish a new “signature marquee” development to serve as the gateway to the
Woodlawn community and linkage to surrounding stakeholders and neighborhoods.
d) Unlock the value of the property (63rd & Cottage Grove) / Washington Park National
Bank Building through reuse, renovation, redevelopment and/or replacement of the
structure.
e) Leverage the site’s key location within this rapidly expanding and evolving
neighborhood, proximity to downtown and accessibility to public transportation and
roadways
f) Attract a high-quality mix of uses, including but not limited to retail, commercial,
office, medical services and local and national tenants, that reflect the tastes,
incomes, and needs of the immediate neighborhood and broader communities, while
also serving to fill the critical demand for new services and retail offerings.
g) Feature quality urban design and architecture that is respectful of the surrounding
context, cognizant of the sites history and responsive to the opportunities, while also
integrating more modern and new development of the surrounding area.
CCLBA-2018

Page  5

 h) Restore the urban character and context, particularly along the 63rd Street corridor,
as lively, continuous community commercial streetscapes.
i) Establish an accessible pedestrian friendly environment that can serve the growing
elderly and disable population as a model of effect accessibility through quality
streetscape, architectural and open space design.

2. Role of the Master Developer
The anticipated role of the Master Developer shall include the purchase of the property
and detailed development of activities necessary to carry out the intent of the Master
Development Plan. The Master Developer shall assemble and lead a complete
development team of consultants/professionals. Contractors and sub-developers as
necessary for the successful advancement and execution of the Project. The Master
Developer will also assume responsibility for the overall development process, including
entitlements, zoning approvals, market leasing and sales, financial assistance, and
overall capitalization. The Master Developer will retain the obligation to meet any all
performance criteria throughout the entire redevelopment process regardless of any
partnership.
3. Description of Site
The CCLBA owns the bank building site, which includes the vacant building. The
Washington Park National Bank Building was constructed in 1924, adjacent to the
Cottage Grove Green Line station which was built in 1893. This property is located at
the southwest corner of 63rd and Cottage Grove Ave. This is a solid commercial location
along a major thoroughfare. The surrounding improvements are a mix of commercial
and residential buildings. The site is approximately 10-miles southeast of downtown
Chicago.
The site contains
12,500-square feet
or 0.2870-ares,
with 100+ feet of
frontage along the
west side of South
Cottage Grove
Ave. and 122.25+
feet of frontage
along the south
side of East 63rd
Street. Improved
with a four-story,
49,000-square
foot, masonry,
concrete and limestone-constructed, Office/Retail building. The improvements could
take on multiple of commercial uses that include but are not limited to office, retail,
education or other. The building and site improvements completed construction
sometime around 1924 and therefore have a chronological age of 94 years. The
building improvement, for its age, is in extremely poor condition and has been vacant for
the past several years.
The site has only street parking available and a land to building ration of 0.26:1 based on
the gross building area (GBA) building area. This is within the market norm for buildings
of this type in Woodlawn.
CCLBA-2018

Page  6

 4. Zoning and Regulatory Ordinance
The property is zoned B3-3: Community Shopping Center, Community Shopping District,
and the current use is legal and conforming.
5. Public Transportation
The current CTA el station opened after renovation in 1994 and serves about 1,174 daily
users. Ridership at the station has fallen by about 17 percent over the past 15 years.
The public space around the station will receive lighting and pedestrian upgrades over
the next several years thanks to the Chicago Department of Transportation’s Walk to
Transit capital investment.
Developer should leverage the centrality of the Green Line station, as well as its
proximity to buses, as part of the development of the bank building site and to capture
business from commuters and visitors who will be drawn to the neighborhood due to the
incoming Obama Presidential Center.

6. Sustainability and Community Building
The CCLBA expects that all Proposals will employ, to the greatest practical extent,
sustainable methodologies to create the most viable development possible. The CCLBA
believes that Sustainability should be considered across three primary categories:
Environmental, Economy, and Social. To be truly sustainable means to be positively
generative in all three aspects, not just LEED and environmental ecologies. The CCLBA
believes that to be sustainable is to generate economic productivity, social collaboration
and community and positive ecological progress.
7. Environmental
The CCLBA encourages the practice of techniques that will lessen the environmental
impact of the Project and result in a development that will be efficient to operate, require
fewer resources to build and maintain, and that will protect building occupants’ health
and well-being. This may include a wide range of issues, including LEED certification,
sustainable building materials and practices, adaptive reuse of existing buildings, and
other methods. One goal of the Project is to be ecologically generative by employing
environmentally responsible strategies and innovations.
8. Economy
This project offers an important opportunity to generate positive economic growth for
Cook County by creating development that has the potential to continue growing the
area into a vibrant urban district. The CCLBA understands that growth cannot be
confined to the development site but will be best achieved through development that
encourages growth throughout the local communities. Collaboration with the Chicago
Transit Authority (CTA), the City of Chicago and the Woodlawn community present
ample opportunity to improve the overall 63rd & Cottage intersection.
9. Benefits of Historic Preservation
The CCLBA also recognizes the sustainability benefits of adaptive reuse and historic
preservation which in many cases provide the most comprehensive method of
sustainable development – provided they also serve to achieve the economic
development, community building and revenue generating objective of the CCLBA –
without compromising or constraining the best redevelopment solutions.

CCLBA-2018

Page  7

 10. Social
The CCLBA views this tenet of sustainability to be synonymous with “community
building.” Social generation is a strong indicator of the success of a project, in that it
shows a strong desire by the public to inhabit the places created. Currently the greatest
impediment to sustain growth in the community is the public perception that the area is
not safe. The community has identified a need to bring more energy, amenities and
activity back to this corridor to draw more people to this intersection, improve people’s
perception of safety and to help disrupt negative activities currently taking place.
Creating retail corridors on 63rd street has the potential to drive collaboration and build
community by creating interstitial places that promote interaction between
neighborhoods. This redevelopment has the potential to vastly increase the number of
people visiting the site, bringing a vibrancy to the underutilized real estate that does not
exist today.
11. Collaborations
Key government partners in the redevelopment of the site will include:
a) Department of Transportation – will fund pedestrian safety improvements at the 63rd
and Cottage intersections. Beginning in Fall 2018, priorities will include side-walk
improvements, enhanced ADA accessibility, signage and traffic signal
improvements.
b) Chicago Transit Authority – has plans to upgrade the Cottage Grove Green Line
station, which is scheduled for completion at the end of 2018. As part of this
upgrade, CTA will replace all existing lighting, repaint, and make repairs to the
stairs, elevators and other elements to ensure they are in a state of good repair.

C. INSTRUCTION TO PROPOSERS
1. Definitions
“CCLBA” shall mean the Cook County Land Bank Authority.
“Contract Compliance Director” means CANDO Corporation.
“Developer or Master Developer” means the Proposer which enters into a
contract pursuant to this RFP.
“Proposal” shall mean the complete proposal submitted by the Proposer to
purchase and redevelop the Washington Park National Bank Building.
“Proposer” shall mean the individual or business submitting the Proposal.

2. The RFP Process
Requirements and procedures for providing submittals in response to this RFP
are described herein. RFP documents are available for downloading at the
CCLBA website at http://www.cookcountylandbank.org/resources/biddocuments/. Copies of all documents are also available for review at 69 W
Washington St, Suite 2938, Chicago, IL 60602.
If it becomes necessary to revise or amend any part of this document, the
CCLBA will issue a revision by written addendum on its website and notify
CCLBA-2018

Page  8

 Proposers that have downloaded the documents. It will be the responsibility of
the Proposer to obtain all such addenda and to acknowledge receipt of all
addenda that have been issued in connection with the RFP.
3. Submission of Proposal
a. The CCLBA will accept questions in writing via e-mail and will respond
throughout the pre-submittal period. All questions must be received no later
than October 8, 2018.
b. All submittals are due no later than 5:00 pm central time, October 31, 2018.
Interested parties must submit an electronic copy of the submittal saved in
PDF format and emailed to info@cookcountylandbank.org. Facsimile or
written copies will not be accepted.
c. A timeline showing key dates for the RFP process is attached as Exhibit G.
d. The responsibility for submitting a response to this RFP on or before the
stated time and date will solely and strictly that of the Proposer. The CCLBA
will no way be responsible for delays caused by internet outage or by any
other entity or occurrence.
e. By submitting a Proposal, Proposer agrees to accept and abide by the terms
of this RFP. The CCLBA reserves the right to reject any or all submittals, to
waive any informality or irregularity, and to accept any submittals which it may
deem to be in the best interest of Cook County. Only submittals from those
complying with the provisions of the RFP will be considered.
f. Submittals will be considered incomplete if they do not bear the signature of
an agent of the Proposer who is able to contractually bind the Proposer. The
submittals can be withdrawn at any time, if requested in writing, until the
deadline date at which time it will be considered final.
4. Significant Dates
The Cook County Land Bank Authority intends to undertake the following:
a. Conduct a pre-proposal / outreach conference (September 18, 2018)
b. Walk-thru for Proposers (Week of September 24-28, 2018)
c. Proposals submitted by (October 31, 2018)
d. Evaluate the submittals received by (November 20, 2018)
e. Schedule oral presentations / interviews of Proposers during the week of (Dec. 3,
2018.) CCLBA reserves the right to conduct interviews with the Proposers.
f. Conduct contract negotiations with the top Proposers
g. Provide evaluation summary to the CCLBA board by (December 13, 2018)
Once the evaluation summary is presented and approval of the award is made by the Cook
County Land Bank Authority Board of Directors, the final agreement will be executed.

CCLBA-2018

Page  9

 5. Format and Contents of Proposal
The Proposers are to provide a thorough submittal using the guidelines presented herein.
Submittals should provide straight forward and concise description of the Proposer’s ability
to meet the requirements of the RFP.
Emphasis should be on conforming to the RFP instructions, responsiveness to the RFP
requirements, and the completeness and clarity of content. The following provides an
outline of the information to be included in the submittal. This outline is not all-inclusive, and
Proposers may add information as they deem appropriate. In addition to the information
outlined below, all Proposers are required to submit (Forms listed in Exhibit A).
a. Table of Contents
1) A table of contents identifying, at a minimum, all sections below and page numbers
b. Cover Letter
1) A cover letter, not to exceed two pages in length, signed by an authorized
representative of the Proposer that confirms the Proposer’s understanding of the
scope, opportunities, preliminary approach and the related development team’s
experience and unique expertise to complete the Project for the CCLBA.
c. Development Team, Experience and Qualifications
The development team consist of different partners including but not limited to the
Proposer, sub developers, architects and engineers, legal representation, marketing and
leasing agents (if applicable), and general contractors (if known). Provide a narrative of
the development team including but not limited to the following:
1) Descriptions of the members (firms and key individuals) of the development team,
identification of the individuals from each firm that will have Project responsibility,
their years of experience, their experience on similar projects, and their pertinent
qualifications. Include current resumes for the team members of each firm that will
have Project responsibility. Please identify Proposer’s key contact personnel for
communications, including communicating with CCLBA on all development related
matters and also communicating with stakeholders and with the community and
public. Members of the development team having equity ownership in the Project
should list the ownership structure of each entity, its principal owners and its officers’
responsibilities of the team members and, to the extent feasible, individuals
constituting Key Personnel.
2) The role in the team of each team member and key individuals assigned must be
stated, and the experience and qualifications presented for each team member and
individual must support the role proposed for such team member and individual.
3) Please provide a listing and description of at least three projects completed in the
previous ten years that demonstrate the Proposer’s experience in developing land
opportunities for improvements, renovations and/or new construction and their
relevance to the CCLBA’s opportunity. Please note any real estate development
experience in areas including: mixed use retail, hospitality, convention/conference
meeting space, restaurants and food service, residential housing, entertainment, and
professional office space. Please note any relevant experience working with the
County or similar entities and specifically cite any prior experience with
Redevelopment Agreements (RDA) initiatives with public or institutional entities. List
the projects in order of priority with the most relevant project listed first indicating: (1)
project name, location, year completed and description (2) project size (gross SF)
CCLBA-2018

P a g e   10

 and final total development cost, (30 names of all affiliate firms that comprise the
Proposer’s project team including architecture, design, engineering, construction,
brokerage, financial and marketing firms and (4) references and current contact
information for the owner’s representatives for each project listed. Please not
Proposer’s philosophy and approach toward, prior experience with and utilization of
union labor organizations to complete development projects.
4) Disclose any contractual or employee relationship which requires registering under
the Cook County Lobbyist Registration Ordinance.
5) Proposers must demonstrate strong expertise, financial capacity and experience in
related developments and the ability to quickly bring proposed developments to
market completion in reasonable time without unnecessary delay. If the entity that is
to undertake the development has been, or will be, specially formed to carry out the
proposed development will exist between its sponsors or participants, particularly as
they relate to guarantees of performance.
d. Preliminary Project Approach, Conceptual Plan, and Program
Include (1) a narrative indicating an understanding of the scope of the Project as
proposed by the Proposer, (2) an overview of the intended approach to achieve the
development objectives including the Proposer’s vision for the Project, (3) preliminary
concept package – drawings, sketches or graphic materials to properly illustrate the
Proposer’s initial approach and vision (not final drawings), and (4) preliminary program
and mix of desired uses, tenants and amenities.
e. Project Ownership Structure
Include a description of the ownership structure (i.e. corporation, LLC, LP, etc.) of the
proposed Project, including all entities and individuals, and responsibilities and
percentages of ownership of the parties comprising each entity. Please note ownership
disclosures required in the Economic Disclosure Statement. Include an ownership
structure chart that illustrates the description of the ownership structure and delineates
lines of responsibility. Members of the Development team having equity ownership in
the Project should list the ownership structure of each entity, its principal owners and its
officers and executive management.

f.

Commitment to MBE/WBE /VBE Goals
A Bidder or Proposer shall document its commitment to meeting the Contract specific MBE
and WBE participation goals by submitting a Utilization Plan (Exhibit D) with the Bid or
Proposal. The Utilization Plan shall include (1) one or more Letter(s) of Intent from the
relevant MBE and WBE firms; and (2) current Letters of Certification as an MBE or WBE.
Alternatively, the Bidder or Proposer shall submit (1) a written Petition for
Reduction/Waiver with the Bid, Quotation or Proposal, which documents its preceding
Good Faith Efforts and an explanation of its inability to meet the goals for MBE and WBE
participation. The Utilization Plan shall be submitted at the time that the proposal is due.
Failure to include a Utilization Plan will render the submission not Responsive and
shall be cause to reject the Proposal.
MBE/WBE Utilization Plan
Each Proposal shall include a complete Utilization Plan, as set forth on Form 1 of the
M/WBE Compliance Forms. The Utilization Plan shall include the name(s), mailing
address, email address, and telephone number of the principal contact person of the

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   11

 relevant MBE and WBE firms. If the Proposer submits a Proposal, and any of their
subcontractors, suppliers or consultants, are certified MBE or WBE firms, they shall be
identified as an MBE or WBE within the Utilization Plan.
1.

Letter(s) of Intent

Except as set forth below, a Proposal shall include, as part of the Utilization Plan, one or
more Letter(s) of Intent, as set forth on the M/WBE Compliance Forms, executed by each
MBE and WBE and the Proposer. The Letter(s) of Intent will be used to confirm that each
MBE and WBE shall perform work as a subcontractor, supplier, joint venture, or consultant
on the Contract. Each Letter of Intent shall indicate whether and the degree to which the
MBE or WBE will provide goods or services directly or indirectly during the term of the
Contract. The box for direct participation shall be marked if the proposed MBE or WBE will
provide goods or services directly related to the scope of the Contract. The box for Indirect
participation shall be marked if the proposed MBE or WBE will not be directly involved in
the Contract but will be utilized by the Bidder or Proposer for other services not related to
the Contract. Indirect Participation shall not be counted toward the participation goal. Each
Letter of Intent shall accurately detail the work to be performed by the relevant MBE or
WBE firm, the agreed dollar amount, the percentage of work, and the terms of payment.
Failure to include Letter(s) of Intent will render the submission not Responsive and
shall be cause to reject the Proposal.
All Proposals must conform to the commitments made in the corresponding Letter(s) of
Intent, as may be amended through change orders.
The Contract Compliance Director may at any time request supplemental information
regarding Letter(s) of Intent, and such information shall be furnished if the corresponding
Proposal is to be deemed responsive.
2.

Letter(s) of Certification

Only current Letter(s) of Certification from one of the following entities may be accepted
as proof of certification for MBE/WBE status, provided that Cook County’s requirements
for certification are met:
•

County of Cook

•

City of Chicago

Persons that are currently certified by the City of Chicago in any area other than
Construction/Public Works shall also complete and submit a MBE/WBE Reciprocal
Certification Affidavit along with a current letter of certification from the City of Chicago.
This Affidavit form can be downloaded from www.cookcountyil.gov/contractcompliance.
The Contract Compliance Director may reject the certification of any MBE or WBE on the
grounds that it does not meet the requirements of the Ordinance, or the policies and rules
promulgated thereunder.
3.

Joint Venture Affidavit

In the event a Proposal achieves MBE and/or WBE participation through a Joint Venture,
the Proposal shall include the required Joint Venture Affidavit, which can be downloaded
from www.cookcountyil.gov/contractcompliance. The Joint Venture Affidavit shall be
submitted with the Proposal, along with current Letter(s) of Certification.

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   12

 Petition for Reduction/Waiver
In the event a Proposal does not meet the Contract specific goals for MBE and WBE
participation, the Proposal shall include a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, as set forth on
Form 3. The Petition for Reduction/Waiver shall be supported by sufficient evidence and
documentation to demonstrate the Proposer’s Good Faith Efforts in attempting to achieve
the applicable MBE and WBE goals, and its inability to do so despite its Good Faith Efforts.
Failure to include Petition for Reduction/Waiver will render the submission not
Responsive and shall be cause to reject the Bid or Proposal.

REDUCTION/WAIVER OF MBE/WBE GOALS
Granting or Denying a Reduction/Waiver Request.
1.

The adequacy of the Good Faith Efforts to utilize MBE and WBE firms in a
Proposal will be evaluated by the CCD under such conditions as are set
forth in the Ordinance, the policies and rules promulgated thereunder, and
in the “Petition for Reduction/Waiver of MBE/WBE Participation Goals” –
Form 3 of the M/WBE Compliance Forms.

2.

With respect to a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, the sufficiency or
insufficiency of a Proposer’s Good Faith Efforts shall be evaluated by the
CCD as of the date upon which the corresponding Proposal was due.

3.

The Contract Compliance Director or his or her duly authorized Waiver
Committee may grant or deny the Petition for Reduction/Waiver based
upon factors including but not limited to: (a) whether sufficient qualified
MBE and WBE firms are unavailable despite good faith efforts on the part
of the Bidder or Proposer; (b) the degree to which specifications and the
reasonable and necessary requirements for performing the Contract make
it impossible or economically infeasible to divide the Contract into
sufficiently small tasks or quantities so as to enable the Bidder or Proposer
to utilize MBE and WBE firms in accordance with the applicable goals; (c)
the degree to which the prices or prices required by any potential MBE or
WBE are more that 10% above competitive levels; and (d) such other
factors as are determined relevant by the Contract Compliance Director or
the duly authorized Waiver Committee.

4.

If the Contract Compliance Director or the duly authorized Waiver
Committee determines that the Proposer has not demonstrated sufficient
Good Faith Efforts to meet the applicable MBE and WBE goals, the
Contract Compliance Director or the duly authorized Waiver Committee
may deny a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, declare the Proposal nonresponsive, and recommend rejection of the Proposal.

g. Financial, Bonding and Insurance Capacity
Proposers must submit evidence of their financial capacity, bonding capacity, and
insurance coverage to undertake a development project of this size, scale, and
complexity from inception, development, implementation and operation: (1) Provide
sufficient documentary evidence of the Proposer’s financial capacity to complete the
development Project, including a description of the size, scope and cost of current
pending projects. (2) Provide evidence of bonding capacity and certificates of insurance
CCLBA-2018

P a g e   13

 evidencing of binding Proposer’s coverage for commercial, general and professional
liability.
h. Preliminary Outline of Compensation to the Cook County Land Bank Authority
Proposer should describe its strategy for funding and financing to achieve a financially
viable Project, and what special incentives or unique approaches will be employed to
achieve the Project. The CCLBA does not anticipate any direct financial subsidy to the
Developer however, will cooperate and collaborate on creative means to achieve the
CCLBA’s redevelopment goals as forth in this RFP.
i.

Proposed Schedule and Phasing
Provide an initial proposed time frame and proposed phasing for the Project. Time
frames be by ranges, and should be presented not as actual dates, but in periods to
achieve milestones.

j.

Legal Actions, Inquires, and Investigations
Please list case numbers for and provide a brief description of all legal actions, and final
disposition if applicable, of any matters within the past ten (10) years wherein any of the
following entities or people involved:
1) The Proposer
2) Any officer or director of the Proposer
3) Any entity that owns more than 25% of the Proposer
4) Any individual proposed as Key Personnel who the Proposer
5) Any person that can be attributed with an ownership interest or more than 25% of the
Proposer (including any person holding a beneficial interest in an entity that holds
any ownership interest in the Proposer)
Or in which the Proposer or any of the foregoing entities or people is or has been
involved within the past ten (10) years:
1) In default on any loan or financing agreement at any time
2) Debtor in bankruptcy at any time
3) Defendant in any foreclosure action at any time
4) Defendant in any lawsuit or administrative action, including, specifically any action for
deficient performance under a contract
5) Defendant in any criminal action at any time
6) Defendant in any action at any time relating to financial matters of deficient
contractual performance
7) The subject of any government agency inquiry, investigation or legal enforcement
action
Or to which the Proposer or any of the foregoing entities or people are currently subject
to:
1) Any liens
2) Any unpaid judgements
3) Payments under any order, decree or agreement with any federal, state or local
entity
By submitting a proposal, if selected the Proposer agrees to permit the CCLBA to perform
such background checks as deem reasonable.

k. Special Considerations
This section is for the Proposer to describe any special situation, conditions and/or
circumstances that would be relevant to the proposed Project, or to the financial condition
of the Respondent or the Respondents’ management team or leadership by has not been
included in the Proposal so far because it did not fall under a category under the Proposals
Contents section of this RFP.
CCLBA-2018

P a g e   14

 l.

Economic Disclosure and Execution Document
The RFP submission bus include an executed Economic Disclosure Statement document
in the form attached as (Exhibit B).

m. RFP Addendum Acknowledgement (if any)
Proposers should acknowledge any Addendum issued by the CCLBA by signing and
including them as part of their proposal.

D. EVALUATION PROCESS AND CRITERIA
1. Evaluation Committee
Responsive submissions will be reviewed and evaluated by an RFP Review and
Evaluation Committee (the “Evaluation Committee” or the “EC”) The members of the EC
are prohibited from discussing the submissions, the Proposals and the RFP process
outside of the deliberations of the EC, are required to maintain the confidentiality of all
submissions, proposals and oral interviews, clarifications and presentations. The EC
may determine at each step that one or more submissions will not result in a contract
and may eliminate such submissions or proposals. The CCLBA shall be under no
obligation to solicit additional information or pricing from Proposers before eliminating
their submissions or proposals.
2. Evaluation Submissions
Submissions will initially be evaluated for responsiveness to the requirement of the RFP.
Non-responsive submissions may be eliminated from consideration. Responsive
submissions will be evaluated in accordance with the evaluation criteria. Proposers may
be asked to provide clarifications, revisions and additional information as part of the
evaluation process, either in writing or in person.
3. Interviews and Oral Presentations
The Evaluation Committee may, but is not required to, conduct one or more formal
presentations, team interviews, or clarification sessions with any or all Proposers. Each
Proposer must identify firms and individuals who constitute “Key Personnel” and those
persons and representatives of those firms must be present to answer questions.
CCLBA acknowledges that all Key Personnel may not be identified. The cost of
attending any presentation or demonstration is solely the Proposer’s responsibility.

4. Negotiation with Selected Proposer
The CCLBA may elect to enter into negotiation the sale with a Redevelopment
Agreement with the selected Proposer. As part of these negotiations, the selected
Proposal may be mended or revised to reflect a “best and final offer” that best aligns with
the CCLBA’s objectives for the Project.
5. Presentation to Leadership
The CCLBA reserves the right to require the selected Proposer to present its proposal to
non-EC members. In such event, if requested by either the Developer or the CCLBA’s
representatives, the parties involved in such presentation will sign the Confidentiality
Agreement to prevent disclosure of information prior to approval by the Cook County
Land Bank Authority Board of Directors.

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   15

 6. Evaluation Criteria
Submissions will be evaluate based upon the following criteria. This competitive RFP
process is intended to result in the section of a Developer that demonstrates the
capacity and qualifications and presents a proposed Project that best meets the
CCLBA’s goals. Revenue, though an important factor, will not be the sole or primary
factor in selection. The criteria below are characterized as important, very important, or
critical, and are weighted accordingly.
a) Professional Qualifications, Experience and Capacity of Master Developer and
Team (treated as “critical” in the evaluation process)
i.
The Developer demonstrates the composition, depth and qualifications in prior
successful roles as master developer in similar urban mixed-use development
projects, including historic preservation and adaptive reuse if applicable.
ii.
Quality and amount of experience of team and individual team members in
planning, designing, developing and constructing projects of similar size,
complexity and use mix to that proposed by the Proposer
iii.
Demonstrated team dynamics conducive to a successful development and a
successful relationship with the CCLBA. This may include prior government or
major institution experience, but such experience is not required.
iv.
Experience and success in long-term operation and management of projects of
similar size and use mix to that proposed
v.
Lead planning and architectural team demonstrates experience in planning and
designing urban mixed-use redevelopment, including the uses proposed, which
may include retail, dining, office and compatible land uses as identified in the
proposal.
vi.
The Key Personnel assigned to this Project demonstrate the qualifications and
experience necessary to fulfill their respective roles and responsibilities
vii.
Accountability and commitment of Master Developer to the Project
b) Conceptual Development and Approach (treated as “critical” in the evaluation
process)
i.
The extent to which the proposed mix of uses contributes to a vibrant urban
environment, works in synergy with the 63rd street Woodlawn corridor
development plan and takes advantage of the markets presented by the
surrounding area
ii.
Understanding, embracing and achieving the CCLBA’s objectives, as
demonstrated in the submission and interviews
iii.
Creativity and quality of Proposer’s preliminary concepts, ideas, program, urban
and architectural design

c) Financial Capacity (treated as “very important” in the evaluation process)
i.
Proven ability, based on current capacity in addition to past performance, to
secure necessary funding for urban, mixed use projects of similar size, scale
and scope
ii.
The Master Development Team demonstrates financial success as a prime
developer on developments of similar size, scale and scope
d) Adaptive Reuse of the Bank Building (Whether or not the Bank building will be
preserved in whole or in part and the method or approach to doing so is considered
as “very important” in the evaluation process.)
CCLBA-2018

P a g e   16

 i.
ii.

Whether or not the Proposer will utilize the old Bank building and, if so, the
quality of the plan to so utilize the building
The degree to which the historic importance of the Bank building is
acknowledged or incorporated into the proposed development

e) MBE/WBE & Local Hiring and Job Creation (treated as “important” in the
evaluation process)
i.
Commitment to meet Ordinance-based goals
ii.
Quality and completeness and creativity of utilization plans (Exhibit D)
iii.
Creativity and extent of plan to create jobs and build workforce
iv.
Extent to which Proposer maximizes employment, business and training
opportunities for community
f)

Sustainability and Community Building (treated as “important” in the evaluation
process)
i.
The degree to which the Proposer’s Project will employ sustainable
methodologies across the three categories described (Environmental, Economy
and Social)
ii.
The Proposer’s strategy for enhancing the economic health of the community
through the development of the Project
iii.
The Proposer’s approach to environmental sustainability, and use of techniques
to lessen the environmental impact of the Project, both during and after
construction, including compliance with the Cook County Green Buildings
Ordinance and Green Construction Ordinance
iv.
The impact of the Project on the Woodlawn community and the surrounding
neighborhoods, and the extent of collaboration with the other stakeholders

g) Oral Presentations (if applicable) (Oral interviews are at the CCLBA’s discretion.
To the extent applicable, oral interview will be treated as “important” in the evaluation
process)
i.
Demonstrate the likelihood that the Proposer’s team dynamics will ensure
successful delivery of the Project as an integrated team
ii.
Demonstrate an approach to the Project that integrates technical and creative
(including planning, programming, design, construction, leasing, operation and
maintenance) and financial approaches in a manner that will optimize Project
objectives and outcomes.
iii.
Demonstrate an approach to the Project that assures ongoing outreach and
effective communication to the community, the stakeholders and the public
h) Commitment to Pay Minimum Bid Amount (treated as “important” in the evaluation
process)
i.
Demonstrate the ability and willingness to pay the minimum bid amount
i)

Legal Actions (treated as “pass fail” in the evaluation process)
i.
Demonstrates that no pending or threatened legal actions, inquires or
investigations affecting or alleged to affect the Developer would negatively
impact the implementation of the Project.

E. COUNTY ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS

1. The Cook County Green Building Ordinance
The Cook County Green Building Ordinance (Cook County Code, Chapter 2,
Section 2-6). Applies to construction and renovation projects undertaken by the
CCLBA-2018

P a g e   17

 County. Proposers should familiarize themselves with such ordinance and with the
U.S> Green Building Council’s “LEED” Green Building Rating Systems. The
Developer is encouraged to comply with the Ordinance and incorporate LEED
principles into the design of the Project at least to the extent required by the
Ordinance. Incorporation of these principles, along with any other “sustainability”
efforts proposed by the Proposer, will be considered in the evaluation of the
Submissions and Proposals, as set forth in Article 9. The Ordinance provides that
the Cook County shall refer to the most current version of the LEED when
beginning a new building construction permit project or renovation. While the
Ordinance states LEED 2.0 certification Silver LEED for New Construction
certification. The Developer will ensure that any building achieving LEED
certification include utility meters and a building automation system to comply with
the U.S. Green Building Council’s mandatory annual reporting requirements.
Contractors shall use the most current U.S. Green Building Council’s definitions.

2. The Cook County Green Construction Ordinance
The Cook County Green Construction Ordinance (Cook County Code, Chapter 30,
Section 30-950, et seq.) sets forth requirements regarding diesel emissions relating
to County construction projects. Though this project is not a County Construction
project, consideration should be given to the benefits of this approach and will be
considered in the evaluation process as a “sustainability” initiative.

3. Living Wage
All CCLBA Purchases shall comply with the requirements set forth in
Section 34-160 (Living Wage) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

4. Recycled Products
All CCLBA Purchases shall comply with Section 34-215 through 34-222 (Recycled
Products) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

5. Predatory Lenders
All CCLBA Purchases shall comply with Section 2-407 (Predatory Lender
Ordinance) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. Each proposal or response
submitted by a financial institution shall contain the certification set forth in Section
34-192 (Predatory Lenders) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

6. Compliance with Child Support Orders
All CCLBA Purchases shall comply with Section 34-369 (Child Support Payment) of
the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

7. Local Business Preference
As provided in Section 34-230 the Cook County Code of Ordinance, the Executive
Director shall recommend award of the Procurement to the lowest Responsible and
Responsive Proposer which is a Local Business, so long as the Proposal of such
Proposer does not exceed the Proposal of the lowest Responsive and Responsible
Proposer by more than 2%.

8. Veteran’s Preference and Incentives
All CCLBA Purchases shall comply with Section 34-2237 through Section 239
(Veteran Preference and Incentives) of the Cook County Code of Ordinance.

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   18

 9. Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises / Workforce Goals
A.

It is the policy of the County of Cook to prevent discrimination in the award of or
participation in County Contracts and to eliminate arbitrary barriers for participation
in such Contracts by local businesses certified as a Minority Business Enterprise
(MBE) and Women-owned Business Enterprise (WBE) as both prime and subcontractors. In furtherance of this policy, the Cook County Board of Commissioners
has adopted a Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance (the
"Ordinance") which establishes annual goals for MBE and WBE participation as
outlined below:
Contract Type

Goals
MBE

WBE

Goods and Services

25%

10%

Construction

24%

10%

Professional Services

35% Overall

B.

The MBE/WBE participation goal for professional services performed under
this contract is 35% overall of the total dollar amount related to professional
services. The MBE/WBE participation goal for construction-related services
performed under this contract is 24% MBE and 10% WBE of the total dollar
amount related to construction services. A Proposal shall be rejected if the
County determines that it fails to comply with this General Condition in any way,
including but not limited to: (i) failing to state an enforceable commitment to
achieve for this contract the identified MBE/WBE Contract goals; or (ii) failing to
include a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, which states that the goals for MBE/WBE
participation are not attainable despite the Bidder or Proposer Good Faith Efforts,
and explains why. If a Bid, Quotation, or Proposal is rejected, then a new Bid,
Quotation, or Proposal may be solicited if the public interest is served thereby.

C.

To the extent the Proposal includes a Petition for Reduction/Waiver that is
approved by the Office of Contract Compliance, the Contract specific MBE and
WBE participation goals may be achieved by the proposed Proposer’s status as
an MBE or WBE; by the Proposer’s enforceable joint-venture agreement with one
or more MBEs and/or WBEs; by the Proposer entering into one or more
enforceable subcontracting agreements with one or more MBE and WBE; by the
Proposer establishing and carrying out an enforceable mentor/protégé agreement
with one or more MBE and WBE; by the Bidder or Proposer actively engaging the
Indirect Participation of one or more MBE and WBE in other aspects of its
business; or by any combination of the foregoing, so long as the Utilization Plan
evidences a commitment to meet the MBE and WBE Contract goals set forth in
(B) above, as approved by the Office of Contract Compliance.

D.

A single Person, as defined in the Procurement Code, may not be utilized as both
an MBE and a WBE on the same Contract, whether as a contractor, subcontractor
or supplier.

E.

Unless specifically waived in the Proposal Documents, this General Condition, the
Ordinance; and the policies and procedures promulgated thereunder shall govern.

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   19

 F.

A Contractor’s failure to carry out its commitment regarding MBE and WBE
participation in the course of the Contract’s performance may constitute a material
breach of the Contract. If such breach is not appropriately cured, it may result in
withholding of payments under the Contract, contractual penalties, disqualification
and any other remedy provided for in Division 4 of the Procurement Code at law
or in equity.

LOCAL HIRING AND COMMUNITY RESIDENT WORKFORCE GOALS
A.

Community Hiring (Public Works/Construction)
1.

The County promotes local hiring by establishing a goal of 50% of the total
hours worked in aggregate by employees of the contractor(s) and
subcontractors on the relevant project shall be performed by residents of
the County.

2.

The County seeks to promote employment for residents of the project
community area by establishing a goal of 7.5% of the total hours worked in
aggregate by employees of the contractor(s) and sub-contractors shall be
performed by residents of the project community.
a. The project community area is comprised of the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th,
and 20th wards as shown in the Local Area Impact Maps, in the
Resource Materials (Exhibit E)
b. The project community area includes Woodlawn /South Shore /
Chatham / Avalon Park / Greater Grand Crossing / Grand
Boulevard / Washington Park. (Exhibit E)

3.

The Proposer shall maintain adequate employee and other records to
document and regularly report on the achievement of the hiring goals
during the redevelopment phase.

OUTREACH
The County seeks a commitment from Proposers as to how they will collaborate with
community organizations, particular community representatives, using Agencies, and the
CCLBA Executive Director to meet the goals set forth in the RFP. In this regard proposers
should identify the specific means of such collaboration, and the community organization
and community representatives with whom they anticipate collaborating.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Compliance with MBE and WBE requirements will not diminish or supplant other legal
Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights requirements that relate to contractor and
subcontractor obligations.

CCLBA-2018

P a g e   20

 