MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 14, 2001
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on September 14, 2001, in
Room 9-040 in the James R. Thompson Center at 100 W. Randolph, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
In recognition of the Presidential decree designating Friday, September 14, 2001 as a
National Day of Prayer and Remembrance, the Open Session of the Regular Meeting of the
Illinois Gaming Board was for the sole purpose of considering the appointment of Deputy
Administrator Thomas F. Swoik as Interim Administrator to replace outgoing Administrator
Sergio E. Acosta.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory C. Jones and Members
Robert Mariano and Elzie Higginbottom. Member Ira Rogal was present telephonically.
Member Stuart P. Levine was not present for the meeting.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan S. McDonald, Thomas Swoik, James W. Wagner, and Deputy Chief Legal
Counsel Jeannette P. Tamayo, as well as other members of the staff.

The Board did not meet in Closed Session. The Board convened its Open Session at 2:10
P.M.
Chairman Jones stated that due to the tragic events of the week, the Illinois Gaming
Board is observing the National Day of Prayer and Remembrance and has canceled
consideration of the Regular September meeting agenda items, which would be deferred
until the October meeting. Chairman Jones stated that on Tuesday, September 11, 2001,
at 4:00 P.M., the Gaming Board closed the casinos in honor of the tragic events.
Chairman Jones stated that the casinos have resumed operation.
Chairman Jones announced that Administrator Acosta has resigned to return to his former
place of employment, the U.S. Attorney’s Office, and that his resignation will go into
effect on September 15, 2001. Chairman Jones stated that the Board needs someone to
exercise the powers of the Administrator, which is the sole purpose of today’s meeting.
Chairman Jones stated that a motion would be made to appoint Thomas F. Swoik, Deputy
Administrator, as Interim Administrator until the position could be filled. Chairman
Jones stated that the Board is very lucky to have Mr. Swoik, who is willing to take the
position. Chairman Jones stated that Tom resides in Springfield and has been Deputy
Administrator for the Gaming Board for seven years. Chairman Jones stated that Mr.

 Swoik would be traveling to Chicago 3 to 4 days a week. Chairman Jones stated that
aside from being Deputy Administrator for the Gaming Board for the last seven years,
Mr. Swoik was also Deputy Director for DCFS for three years, and served in a variety of
positions in Government service for over sixteen years with the Illinois Board of
Education. Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Swoik is a career government employee.
Chairman Jones stated that Mr. Swoik has a degree in Business Administration from
Murray State and a MBA [Masters of Education Administration] from the University of
Illinois. Chairman Jones stated that with all of Mr. Swoik’s qualifications, he would be
an outstanding person to serve in this capacity.
Member Mariano moved that Thomas F. Swoik be appointed as the Interim
Administrator of the Illinois Gaming Board, effective September 15, 2001, and
receive compensation in the amount of $11,670.00 per month plus expenses.
Member Higginbottom seconded. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Chairman Jones announced that effective 12:01 A.M. Mr. Swoik would be the
Administrator of the Illinois Gaming Board.
Chairman Jones stated that due to the very solemn occasion he feels that it is appropriate
to reserve his comments on Mr. Acosta and the appreciation that the Board and staff has
for him until the next Board meeting.
At 2:20 Member Mariano made a motion to adjourn. Member Higginbottom seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

2

 