Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
April 21, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Friday, April 21, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 1st floor at the Wyndham Hotel in Springfield, Illinois immediately following its
Regular Meeting - Riverboat. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre, Steve Dolins and Thomas Dunn. Member Robinson participated via
telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its
Regular Meeting of March 23, 2017. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR'S REPORT
Administrator Ostrowski stated that video gaming continues to expand.
locations along with 26,350 video gaming machines that are operational.

There are 6,019

PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Bob Willenborg – J&J Ventures Gaming, LLC – Player Rewards Presentation
Konami Gaming, Inc. – Jay Barch – Player Rewards Presentation
Donna More – Fox Rothschild, LLP – Statutory Interpretation of the Video Gaming Act.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS


Presentation by Caleb Melamed

Member Dunn moved to amend the Video Gaming Rules by making technical changes and
deleting unnecessary or duplicative language by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for
First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the
Administrator. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by
roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Terminal Operator License – Lucky Day LLC
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the Terminal Operator License
application of Lucky Day LLC, as the applicant has demonstrated its qualifications and

 suitability for licensure. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously
by roll call vote.
License Renewals
Member Dolins moved to renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a term of
one year, expiring in April 2018:













Advantage Gaming, LLC
Da Route LLC
Grand River Jackpot, LLC
Great Lakes Vending Corporation
Illinois Operators, Inc.
Lucky Lincoln Gaming, LLC
Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC
Schaffner Gaming LLC
Sinbad's Castle Arcade, Ltd.
Stellar Gaming LLC
T's Gaming, LLC
Velasquez Gaming, LLC

In addition, Member Dolins moved to renew the Terminal Operator License of Abraham
Gaming, LLC for a term of one year, retroactive to March 2017 and expiring in March
2018. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passes unanimously by roll call
vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Terminal Handler and Technician Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve 32 Terminal Handler Licenses valid for a
period of one year expiring in April 2018, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:
1. Scott Northcutt
2. George Washington III
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Dunn moved to approve the renewal of the licenses of Technicians and Terminal
Handlers who were licensed or renewed in April 2016, and who have properly updated
their applications, timely paid their annual fees and otherwise remained in compliance with
the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Video Gaming Location Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 111 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for a period
of one year, expiring in April 2018, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to:










Main Street Bar and Grill LLP d/b/a Main Street Bar & Grill
Jason Lacy d/b/a Jay Lay Sport's Bar
100 Proof Gaming LLC d/b/a The Hot Spot
Gxander LLC d/b/a Taqueria Mi Tierra
Chalkey's Tavern, Inc. d/b/a Chalkey's Tavern
Julia L Reaves d/b/a Ed & Millies Tavern
A&A Gas Inc. d/b/a A&A Gas & Food
Team Coleman L.L.C. d/b/a Uptown Bar & Grill
2001 N. Mannheim Corporation d/b/a J's Sports Bar & Grill in Melrose

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Locations (second motion)
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve the renewal of licenses held by Retail
Establishments, Truck Stops, Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or
renewed in April 2016, that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their
annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the
Board's Rules, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Non-Renewal to:




Waterfront Tavern LLC d/b/a Waterfront Tavern LLC
K & T Behm Inc. d/b/a Big Behms Sports Bar & Grill
Mazzarisi Gaming Inc. d/b/a Maria's Gaming Lounge

Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the Requests for Hearing submitted by
Karzelle, Inc. d/b/a One Eye Jack's #1, as they have failed to establish a prima facie case
for hearing. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.

3

 Member Dunn moved that the Board grant Taco Stan's LLC and The Dead Tree Tavern,
Inc. leave to reapply for an Establishment License. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Failure to Properly Monitor VGTs
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment licenses of:




Galesburg Properties, LLC d/b/a Best Western Prairie Inn;
Road Ranger, L.L.C. d/b/a Road Ranger (License No. 121004155) and
Pete's Pub Inc. d/b/a Sunset Lanes

for failing to properly monitor VGTs, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless a fine of $5,000 is paid or an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Underage Access to VGTs and Obstructing Board Agents
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Stellas – Plaza Westlake, LLC d/b/a Stella's Place for permitting
underage gambling and obstructing Board Agents, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless a fine of $10,000 is paid or an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Operating VGTs Without a Valid Liquor License
Member Dunn moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of D's Bistro Inc. d/b/a D's Bistro Inc. due to operating VGTs for a
period of 4 months without a valid liquor license, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet the Minimum Qualifications for Licensure
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Schmoe's Inc. d/b/a Schmoe's Inc for having an active tax liability and for failing to
maintain the minimum qualifications for licensure, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.

4

 Undisclosed PSIC
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license B&R Just One More, LLC d/b/a Just One More for failing to timely
disclose a Person of Significant Influence or Control, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless a fine of $5,000 is paid or an Answer is properly
filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Undisclosed PSIC, Active Tax Liability and Failure to Meet Minimum Qualifications for
Licensure
Member Dunn moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Bruce D. Hertz d/b/a Town Pump Bowl & Lounge and OAD
Management, Inc. d/b/a Mt. Olive Bowl due to active tax liabilities, undisclosed Persons of
Significant Influence or Control and failure to meet minimum qualifications for licensure,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service unless an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Undisclosed PSIC, Misrepresenting Information to the Board and Failure to Meet Minimum
Qualifications for Licensure
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Nancy L. Derubeis d/b/a Steve and Nancy's Boardwalk due to the
criminal history of a Person of Significant Influence or Control and the failure to properly
disclose the criminal history, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Criminal Activities and Associations
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Las Adelitas Mexican Restaurant, Inc. d/b/a Las Adelitas Mexican
Restaurant, due to criminal activity at the establishment, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Member Dunn moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Sapphyre, Inc. d/b/a Sapphyre, Inc., as the license was issued in
error, and the establishment is not suitable for licensure since it is located in a video
gaming mall, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint,
unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 Settlements of Disciplinary Complaints
Member Dolins moved that, based on Staff's recommendation and information provided
by Michael B. Stillman, the Board rescind its March 2017 Order directing Gold Rush
Amusements, Inc. to economically disassociate from Michael B. Stillman and MB Stillman
Group, LLC. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Alejandre moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to enter into
settlement agreements with, and to administratively dismiss the complaints against the
following licensees or to provide the settlement agreements to the administrative law judge
for disposition:



Dennis Strader d/b/a Champ's
Joken Inc. d/b/a Kens Viaduct Lounge

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:21 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 