MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JANUARY 20, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on January 20, 1998 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’
B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:33 a.m. Member Browder moved
that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1),
(4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 1:25 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the December 1 and 2, 1997 regular meeting and the open and
closed sessions of the December 16, 1997 special meeting. Member Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
The Chairman noted two additions to the agenda. Under the Owner Licensee section
of the agenda, Harrah’s request for a preventive maintenance cruising waiver was
inadvertently left off the agenda and will be placed under items for initial consideration.
Under the Board Policy section of the agenda, Outside Counsel, William O’Connor, will
give a preliminary report regarding a review he has undertaken and his proposed policy
recommendations.
The Chairman stated that Harrah’s Entertainment announced a definitive agreement to
purchase Showboat, Inc. -- the majority owner of a property in East Chicago, Indiana.
The Chairman directed the Administrator to meet with Harrah’s officials to discuss the
Board’s concerns for Harrah’s-Joliet continuing to be competitive with all gaming
operations in its market area, including the Showboat property in East Chicago.
The Chairman reported that Circus Circus, the ultimate holder of a 50 percent interest
in the Elgin Riverboat Resort, has announced the resignation of company Chairman
and CEO, Clyde Turner. The Circus Circus Board has elected Michael Ensign as
successor to Mr. Turner.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance;
and, Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported that:
•

Staff has met with officials from Harrah’s and had a preliminary discussion
regarding the Showboat acquisition and competitiveness between Illinois and
Indiana.
• On January 5, 1998, Greate Bay Hotel and Casino filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy. The bankruptcy does not directly affect HCC or HCA. The
bankruptcy action could eventually lead to some changes in the supplier
license relationship between HCA/HCC and Greate Bay Casino
Corporation/PRT.
• As previously stated, the Missouri Supreme Court issued a ruling that
potentially affects the (legal) operating status of six of Missouri’s 11 riverboat
casinos. The lawsuit that initiated this issue has been withdrawn in response
to a decision by the Missouri Gaming Commission (“MGC”) to take
disciplinary action against the six “boat in a moat” operations. Several
operators have now filed Court action to challenge the MGC’s right to institute
disciplinary procedures.
• The panel hearing the issue of the “fair market value” of the Baise/Lucas
contracts has scheduled open hearing sessions for February 12, 1998 and
February 16, 1998, as needed. The proceedings are open to the public.
Owner Licensee Items

2

 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES (“SIRCC”) - Michael Ficaro
and Patrick Madamba, representing SIRCC and Player’s International, Inc., requested
initial consideration for $100 million of follow-on notes (the “Tac-on-Notes”) to its
existing $150 million of 10 7/8% Senior Notes due 2005 (the “original notes”). Mr.
Madamba stated that the underwriter for the transaction is Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Securities Corporation.
Chairman Johnson requested that Mr. Madamba produce any documents reflecting
significant changes well before the February Board meeting so the Board has time to
analyze the information.
As a second matter, Mr. Madamba requested renewal of SIRCC’s Owner’s license.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) - Donna More, representing PGC,
requested renewal of its Owner’s license. William Boyd introduced staff of PGC and
Boyd Gaming. Mr. Boyd also introduced Jay Thompson the Director of Public Affairs of
East Peoria.
Mr. Boyd discussed the five conditions set forth in 1996 as a condition of PGC’s
renewal. He informed the Board that: 1) Employees of both PGC and Boyd Gaming are
fully aware that they must be in compliance with the terms of the Act and Board rules
and that training programs have been developed to insure compliance. 2) Boyd
Gaming has acquired the remaining 85 percent interest of the Treasure Chest Casino in
Kenner, Louisiana. Boyd Gaming is now the sole owner of that property. 3) PGC
participated in the patron survey completed in June, 1997. 4) PGC will continue to
promote East Peoria and Peoria as tourist destinations. To meet this requirement,
PGC has developed marketing programs directed at out-of-state patrons. PGC also
works directly with both communities to promote tourism. For the period, November 1,
1996 through October 31, 1997 PGC’s advertising and expenditures were
approximately $2 million. Of this amount approximately $800,000 was directed to
advertising in states other than Illinois. Mr. Boyd reported that overnight stays of nonIllinois residents have increased. For 1997 more than 22 percent of the approximately
55,000 room nights sold by the Par-A-Dice Hotel were purchased by out-of-state
residents. 5) PGC has continued to patronize local and in-state vendors in the
purchase of goods and services at levels comparable to the 1996 levels.
Maunty Collins, Senior VP and Director of Operations for Boyd Gaming, reviewed in
detail the changes and improvements that took place at PGC and plans for the coming
year. Mr. Collins stated that in 1997 PGC spent in excess of $2 million in maintenance
and capital expenditures which included the recently completed $500,000 renovation of
the pavilion interior. Additionally, for 1998 PGC has approved in excess of $4 million in
capital expenditures including $2.5 million for improvements on the boat including new
slot stands, stools, wall coverings and carpeting. Plans for Spring, 1998 include a
redesign of the exterior pavilion to make it consistent with the hotel design and color
scheme.

3

 Mr. Collins stated that PGC has made many financial contributions over the last year,
including donations to Bradley University in Peoria, to the Economic Development
Council for the Peoria area and to the Filipi Foundation, Inc. (the charitable arm
responsible for organizing and operating the East Peoria Festival of Lights). In August
1996 PGC contributed $178,000 to the East Side Center, a multi-purpose sports and
recreational center operated jointly by the City of East Peoria and the East Peoria Park
District.
Member Vickrey asked about the average hotel occupancy rate. Mr. Collins stated that
the hotel runs in the mid-70 percent range. Member Vickrey asked if PGC has plans to
bury or re-route the electrical lines that run along the front of its property. Mr. Collins
stated that a study has been done on this issue and PGC decided not to move the lines
at this time as it would cost in excess of $1 million to do so.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Jay Thompson to discuss the riverboat revenues and what
the City of East Peoria does with the revenues as they come in. Mr. Thompson stated
that the revenues have allowed the city to assist in a couple of projects, such as, the
multi-purpose sports park and the East Port Marina. The marina is a multi-million dollar
project built north of the riverboat docksite. Also, $1-2 million in city infrastructure
improvements have been made. In response to Member Vickrey, Mr. Thompson stated
that the marina is two miles from the riverboat.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Collins if the marina is used as a marketing opportunity. Mr.
Collins stated that the marina brings in people from the Chicago and St. Louis areas
and some marketing has been done. Mr. Thompson also stated that PGC and the city
are exploring opportunities for joint promotions.
Chairman Johnson asked what the effect has been on other hotel properties (besides
the Par-A-Dice Hotel) in the Peoria metropolitan area. Mr. Collins stated that the
Hampton Inn, adjacent to the casino site, was operating at 93-94 percent prior to the
Par-A-Dice Hotel opening. It dipped into the 70 percent range but has since returned to
the high 80 percent range. There are two other hotels in East Peoria undergoing
extensive remodeling to recapture a piece of the market. They are concentrating in
different areas than the Peoria Hotel.
Member Vickrey asked if revenues are shared with the City of Peoria. Mr. Thompson
stated that the hotel revenue is not but the casino taxes are shared 50-50.
On a second agenda item, Mr. David Daley, representing PGC, requested approval for
a preventive maintenance cruising waiver.
Mr. Daley stated that the main
engines/generators need overhaul work. The work was scheduled for completion in
January/February 1998 when the boat is typically iced in. Mr. Daley further requested a
waiver of the two meeting rule to approve the request.
Chairman Johnson clarified the intent of the Board regarding preventive maintenance
requests. He stated that the Board would like to see “preventive” maintenance

4

 scheduled, planned and presented to the Board in a timely manner. Chairman Johnson
further encouraged the Board to waive the two meeting rule for all five licensees
requesting preventive maintenance on today’s agenda.
Administrator Belletire clarified that the request for a waiver of the two meeting rule was
from Hollywood Casino Aurora, Par-A-Dice Gaming Company and Alton Gaming
Company. All three licensees cooperated by submitting alternate dates.
Member Browder moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule to consider the
preventive maintenance plans submitted by Alton Gaming Company, Hollywood
Casino Aurora, Par-A-Dice Gaming Company, Elgin Riverboat Resort, Casino
Rock Island and Harrah’s Casino. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Johnson requested that Casino Queen’s request for preventive maintenance
be included in the all inclusive waiver motion.
Member Pyatt moved that, pursuant to the Board resolution adopted in July of
1996, the Board approve the requests for a waiver of Board Rule 3000.510
submitted by the Alton Gaming Company, Hollywood Casino Aurora, Par-A-Dice
Gaming Company, Elgin Riverboat Resort, Casino Rock Island, Harrah’s Casino
and Casino Queen to permit the conduct of gaming while remaining dockside
while preventive maintenance is conducted on the riverboats. In granting this
waiver the Board has considered the following:
1. The work plans and the time requested by each licensee;
2. Evidence that the riverboats must remain dockside for the planned
maintenance to be completed;
3. Evidence of the licensee’s inability to postpone the repairs; and
4. Efforts made by the licensees to perform the planned maintenance during
times when the riverboat is normally docked due to inclement weather.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Administrator Belletire clarified for the Board the current Coast Guard policy with regard
to hull inspections. The Coast Guard, through its Washington headquarters, provided
clarifying directives indicating it is likely that a new Coast Guard policy will show that the
dry docking requirements will not be eliminated for vessels but that a special set of
circumstances will be considered when certain factors are present. Boats on the inland waterways that are not in very deep water will be subject to a different approach to
inspecting their hulls rather than dry docking. A form of underwater examination, ultrasound testing and special examination of the parts of the hull that are most vulnerable

5

 to wear will be undertaken. A 30 month extension could be granted if the licensee
passes all tests.
CASINO QUEEN, INC. - John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, requested approval
of Roy D. Ligon as Director of Management Information Systems.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Roy D. Ligon as Level 1 Occupational
Licensee of Casino Queen, Inc. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
PLAYERS/SIRCC - Michael Ficaro, representing SIRCC, requested approval of
Lawrence Cohen as an Outside Director.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Lawrence Cohen as a Key Person
of Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS CASINO JOLIET - Michael Hansen, representing Empress, requested
approval of Nelida Faccio-Robert as Chief of Security.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Nelida Faccio-Robert as Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation. Member Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO JOLIET - Tom O’Donnell, representing Harrah’s, requested
approval of Timothy J. Wilmott as a Key Person.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Timothy J. Wilmott as a Key
Person of Harrah’s Casino Corporation. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licenses
MIKOHN GAMING CORP.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Seamus M. McGill and Donald W.
Stevens as Key Persons of Mikohn Gaming Corporation. Member Pyatt seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
GDC, INC.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Roy W. Houston and Kenneth J.
Lambe as Key Persons of GDC, Inc. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve 111 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 270 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and
deny 3 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2 and 7 applications for

6

 an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Browder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Having reviewed the staff’s report, Member Browder moved that the Board issue a
complaint for disciplinary action against Bobbie Smith and revoke her license.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Board Policy Items
AGENCY RULES - Mareile’ Cusack, Chief Legal Counsel, reported that on January 14,
1998 JCAR issued a “No Objection Certificate” to the proposed rules. Ms. Cusack
asked the Board to authorize staff to submit these rules and definitions for final
publishing with the Secretary of State. Once published the rules will become part of the
final adopted rules.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the final publishing and adoption of
the proposed definitions and rules presented by staff at this meeting and
delegate to the Administrator the authority to make technical non-substantive
changes in order to effectuate the final adoption of the definitions and rules.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Administrator stated that with the adoption of the new rules, staff has resolved the
outstanding issues related to HP, Inc. and its filing in Circuit Court.
SPECIAL INVESTIGATION REPORT - William O’Connor, outside counsel for the
Board, gave a report on possible inappropriate Gaming Board staff contact with certain
applicants or potential applicants related to the East St. Louis license. Mr. O’Connor
reported that on May 31, 1997 Senator Denny Jacobs introduced Senate Resolution 91
calling for “an investigation into allegations of collusion and conflicts of interest affecting
the membership of the Illinois Gaming Board and the staff of the Board”. In response to
the filing of that Resolution the Board commenced its own inquiry into the facts
surrounding the questions raised in the Resolution. Mr. O’Connor stated that he will
submit a final report at the February, 1998 Board meeting.
Specifically, in his final report, he will report to the Board his factual conclusions
regarding the Casino Queen licensing matter as they were raised in Resolution 91. He
will cover the factual basis for the formulation of the Casino Queen investor group; the
facts relating to the Gaming Board’s role in site selection; and, a discussion of any
Board communications with third parties regarding the licensing process. Mr. O’Connor
also stated that he will give his recommendations regarding Board and staff licensing of
Owner licensees.
Mr. O’Connor reported that his initial conclusion in this matter does not suggest any
wrongdoing on the part of any Board or staff member in the East St. Louis licensing

7

 matter. Mr. O’Connor stated that he has verified questionable communications
between a member of the staff and potential investors. He observed that the
questionable communications have to be viewed in light of the facts and circumstances
which apply at the time that they were made.
Mr. O’Connor proposed that the Board consider uniform handling of communications
and advisory information regarding the application process and the subsequent award
of an Owner’s license. Mr. O’Connor outlined several potential changes he will
encourage the Board to consider.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY - Rev. Tom Grey addressed three issues of concern. Rev.
Grey stated that the Jo Daviess County Board passed a resolution at its last Board
meeting to authorize the County as a site for an Owner’s license. Rev. Grey stated that
the people of Jo Daviess County have not been asked whether they would support this
action. He also reported that the $3.1 million infrastructure that HP, Inc. put in has
been sold for $1.00 to the city of East Dubuque.
Rev. Grey noted that Owner licensees are complaining about the increase in taxes and
are concerned that the tax increase is unfair, due to competition from neighboring
states. Rev. Grey stated that his research shows that the competition is minimal. He
suggested that if the Owners cannot afford their employees and expansion projects that
the licensees should relinquish their license and let someone else try. Rev. Grey
further noted that Indiana’s Governor has called for a study to be completed to show
the impact gambling has on the number of suicides and bankruptcies. The study is to
be completed within the next year and he (Grey) looks forward to the results. He further
asked that the Board look into pathological gamblers and the casinos that produce
them.
Rev. Grey brought up the issue of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REIT”) and has
heard that the movement now is for Owner licensees to use REIT’s so they won’t have
to pay Federal taxes. Rev. Grey feels the Owner licensees will disperse income to its
stockholders under REIT.
Rev. Grey concluded by complimenting the Board for its continued good work in
regulating the gaming industry.
KEY PERSONS
The Administrator requested that the Board consider additional policy regarding a
change of the scope of the Key Person definition and related Key Person
investigations. He proposed that the Board limit the definition of a Key Person to
individuals who have a direct relationship to an Illinois operation. This could reduce by
as much as one-third, the number of Key Person applicants. He also proposed the
Board intensify the background investigations currently done on Level 1 occupational
licensee.
CODE OF CONDUCT

8

 Ms. Cusack stated that staff recommend that the Board consider extending the Code of
Conduct to include under the Post IGB Affiliation all state employees employed in the
service of the Board. Ms. Cusack also asked that some clarifying language be added
under the Application Section of the Code to further define and clarify what is meant by
employees of the Board.
Member Browder moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue to all
personnel an updated version of the Code of Conduct (“Code”) and to
incorporate in that revised version of the Code, changes which clarify the
definition of employees of the Board to include all state employees in the service
of the Board and extend the post-employment affiliation prohibition to all
employees of the agency. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
NEW GAME REQUEST
The Administrator reported that the Casino Rock Island (“CRI”) requested approval of
the game of “War”. The game will be offered under the trademark name Casino War™.
The Administrator noted some staff confusion about the “house advantage” for this
game. He stated that the game is marketed as having a house advantage of between
2.4 and 2.9 percent and that staff had some questions concerning this. The Chairman
asked CRI to explain the percentages to the Board.
C.J. Graham, representing CRI, stated that a theoretical advantage is, in part,
dependent upon the play of the player. Mr. Graham stated that there is a 1-2 payout
once the player is at war the first time which creates the primary advantage for the
house.
Pursuant to Board rule 3000.605, Member Vickrey moved that the Board authorize
“War” as an approved game.
I further move that the Board direct the
Administrator to include this game and the definition of this game on the list of
Board-approved games and that this game not become authorized until reviewed
by the Administrator. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:52 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

9

 