AMENDED
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 17 and 18, 2007
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, December 17, 2007 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday, December 17, 2007 at 10:20 a.m. the following Board Members were present:
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
At 10:20 a.m. on Monday, December 17, 2007 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:45 a.m. and recessed until
10:40 a.m. on December 18, 2007. The Board went into open session at 1:10 p.m.
Roll call was taken at the start of the open session with Chairman Jaffe, Members Gardner,
Winkler, Sullivan and Moore present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of December 3, 2007, and the open session minutes of the Special Board meeting of
December 3, 2007. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS – no motion
The Chairman remarked about due diligence regarding employees because the casinos have not
done their job in screening their applicants. The Board expects the casinos to screen more
thoroughly and if not, fines will be issued to the casinos.

 The Chairman commented on legislation for casino expansion; he went on to state how the
present Board had revoked Emerald’s license and caught up on all the backlog of the licensees’
applications awaiting approval. The Board is now set to seek an investment banker for the
Emerald license. The Chairman stated that this present Board has stabilized the process within
the last 3 years. If the legislature wanted to do the right thing in Illinois, just give the IGB the
staff that it needs and fund this Board the way it should be funded.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – no motion
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS – no motion
Member Winkler commented on the recent question concerning the promotions on the riverboats
that were referred to as a lottery by a member of the public. The elements of gambling,
consideration, chance and prize are the same elements that comprise the definition of lottery.
Our staff is very diligent in processing these promotions. 399 submissions were processed in the
year of 2006, and Member Winkler moved that the Board waive the attorney client privilege
between the Gaming Board and Mr. Fries, and make the document that Mr. Fries
authored available to the public. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY – Alex Yarborough
Mr. Yarborough addressed the Board; he is president of the Illinois Council on Problem
Gambling (ICPG). The organization supports the Illinois Gaming Board. The ICPG just
completed a 12 month study of examining their core process; we thank the Gaming Board for its
support of the Council. ICPG has a dedicated Board of Directors and its staff is very efficient in
implementing policy and goals.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Items for Initial Consideration –
●

Penn National Gaming – Acquisition of Penn National Gaming by Fortress Investment
Group LLC and Centerbridge Partners

Martha Sabol addressed the Board.
Tom Auriemma Vice President and CCO – Penn National
A merger agreement was entered into with Fortress Investment and Centerbridge Partners. The
Company will be a private company; this transaction will not alter or modify the way the
company operates. Peter Carlino will remain with the company, senior management will remain
with the company, no layoffs will take place and management level at all the properties will
remain the same. All necessary documents were filed in August to have this merger approved by
the Gaming Board. Penn National operates 19 different facilities in 15 different jurisdictions.

2

 This transaction will not result in any operational changes. We operate 3 facilities in Illinois.
The Ohio Racing Commission has approved the merger and the New Jersey Racing Commission
will consider the merger at their February, 2008 meeting.
Bill Doniger – Managing Director of Fortress Investment
Fortress was formed in May, 1998. 700 employees are located within our main office in New
York. Offices are spread throughout the United States and in Europe. We manage large pension
funds and endowments which consist of hedge funds investing and trading in liquid markets,
with private equity businesses investing in companies.
Steven Price – Senior Managing Director of Centerbridge
We are a younger and smaller version of Fortress – less than 2 years old. We focus on traditional
private equity and distressed company investing to ensure flexibility in different market
environments.
Frank Schrek – Regulatory Counsel
All of the entities and individuals who represent 100% of the control and management of Penn
National after the transaction have filed Personal Disclosure Forms with the Illinois Gaming
Board. Mr. Schrek went on to explain the table that was distributed in a handout to all the Board
members and Senior Staff. The licensing structure is similar to that approved by the Illinois
Gaming Board and numerous other jurisdictions in the Harrah’s transaction.
When creating this structure 8 or 9 years ago from a regulatory standpoint this is advantageous
and has tremendous benefits. With public shareholders you basically never know who they are.
In the term of limited partners you know exactly who they are. With public investors you never
know the source of funds. With private investors you certainly know the source of the funds
through large pension funds. Ownership structure is different; a person who owns common
stock has a voting right. Limited partners have no voting right; only an ownership interest in the
fund. No direct or ownership interest. Private equity stays the same throughout the life of the
fund, they do not change. Public shareholders, 70% change annually.
Member Gardner asked several questions to which Mr. Schrek responded.
•

MGM – Corporate Restructuring

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
approve MGM Mirage’s request to merge Goldstrike Investments, Incorporated and Last
Chance Investments, Incorporated into M.S.E. Investments Incorporated so that following
the merger, Nevada Landing Partnership will be owned 15% by Diamond Gold Inc. and
85% by M.S.E. Investments Incorporated. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Hollywood Casino – Robert Saucedo, Director of Surveillance – Level One

3

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
approve Robert Saucedo as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of Director of
Surveillance at Hollywood Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Empress Casino – Jose Flores, Director of Facility Operations – Level One

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
approve Jose Flores as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of Director of
Facility Operations at Empress Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Par-A-Dice Casino – Chris Corrado, General Manager, Level One

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
approve Chris Corrado as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of General
Manager at Par-A-Dice Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 24 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 102 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Christie Lee Lozano
Thomas A. Koehler
Erick R. Walker
William Clanton
Eric E. Chapman
Elizabeth D. Barnett, and
Sheila Diane Kemp

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

4

 PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS •

Brandi M. Harris, Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Brandi M. Harris, an occupational licensee, based
on her admission that she stole money from Harrah’s Metropolis while working as a bank
cashier.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Brandi M. Harris’ occupational
license. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Jacklin Younan, Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Jacklin Younan, an occupational licensee, based on
her admission that she stole money from Grand Victoria Casino while working as a valet
cashier.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Jacklin Younan’s occupational
license. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Dennis Armstrong, Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dennis Armstrong, an occupational licensee, for
failing to disclose material changes in information to the Board regarding his February 24,
2007 arrest and October 1, 2007 conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Dennis Armstrong’s, occupational
license for 5 days without pay. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the
date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Gardner stated that future violations pertaining to the above will no longer be
acceptable via suspension, and any change of status not reported to the employer or the IGB is
not acceptable. Future violations could result in more severe suspensions or perhaps revocations.

5

 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS •

Carmelita Y. Cotton – Request for Hearing

Based on a review of Carmelita Y. Cotton’s request for hearing, Member Gardner moved to
deny the request due to her failure to set forth facts that establish a prima facie case i.e.,
that she did not confess, in writing, to stealing from her previous employer and that she did
not disclose her October 22, 2007 arrest. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Courtland Wilson – Request for Hearing

Based on a review of Courtland Wilson’s request for hearing, Member Gardner moved to deny
the request due to his failure to set forth facts that establish a prima facie case i.e., that he
failed to disclose an October 28, 1989 arrest and a February 2, 2001 arrest. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADJOURNMENT At 2:05 p.m. Member Gardner motioned for adjournment while Member Winkler seconded the
motion.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 