STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on January 12, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—100 West Randolph Street, 4th Floor, Room 200, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members participated via
video conference from the Board’s Springfield office.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD ON DECEMBER 15, 2015

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the December 15, 2015 meeting. Member Lewis moved to
approve the minutes. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. L-CA-16-005
Kenneth Sawyer/City of Chicago (Streets and Sanitation)

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General
Counsel Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent
violated Section 10(a) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal and Respondent filed a response. After
her presentation, General Counsel Nelson offered options for the Board’s consideration of the Charging Party’s
appeal and recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Chairman
Gierut moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal based on Charging Party’s appeal was untimely.
Member Anderson seconded the motion. Chairman Gierut and Member Anderson passed the motion by a voice
vote. Member Lewis opposed, contending that although Charging Party’s appeal is meritless, he would have
granted a variance as to the timeliness of the appeal. He concurred with the Executive Director’s Dismissal.
2.

Case No. L-CA-16-018
Kenneth Sawyer/City of Chicago (Streets and Sanitation)

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board.
General Counsel Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the
Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal and Respondent filed a
response. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board affirm the Executive
Director’s dismissal based on the fact that Charging Party’s appeal was untimely. After discussion, Member Lewis
moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of February, 2016.

2

 