STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 9, 2006

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the
Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; Letitia Taylor, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director and staff members. General Counsel Jacalyn J. Zimmerman was absent.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 11, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the April 11, 2006 meeting. Member Piper
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Taylor seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the administrative actions for April 1 to
April 30, 2006. Executive Director Brosnan distributed his report to the Board. After the Board
examined the report, the Executive Director explained why in two recent elections, there was a significant
lag in time between the date the petition was filed and the date the election was conducted.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
S-RC-05-184
Knox County Board/Knox County Nursing Home/AFSCME, Council 31, AFL-CIO

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the question presented was whether the
persons employed in the Employer's Licensed Practical Nurse Supervisor title were supervisors within the
meaning of Section 3(r) of the Act. The Administrative Law Judge concluded that the employees at issue
were not statutory supervisors. The Board engaged in a general discussion of the Administrative Law
Judge's decision, and the facts and evidence presented in the case. At the conclusion thereof, Member
Piper made a motion to accept the Administrative Law Judge's Recommended Decision and Order.
Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
S-RC-06-067
PACE Heritage Division/International Brotherhood of Teamsters/ATU, Local 241
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting that the Executive Director’s Order
Dismissing Objections to the Election issued on March 7, 2006, and the ATU appealed therefrom. The
questions presented were whether Petitioner, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, by its distribution
of gifts to bargaining unit employees, and whether the Employer, by its failure to provide a complete
Excelsior list, engaged in conduct such that there should be a hearing to determine whether the election
should be overturned. In his order, the Executive Director concluded that the evidence was insufficient to

 warrant a hearing. Member Piper moved that the Board accept the Executive Director’s order. Member
Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
S-RC-06-153
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County/International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
Local 714/AFSCME, Council 31, AFL-CIO
Chairman Gallagher explained that the Petitioner had filed a motion with the Board, seeking to hold in
abeyance, the scheduled hearing on its election objections, until after the Board reviews and rules on
Petitioner's appeal of the Executive Director's dismissal of the remainder of its objections. Executive
Director Brosnan briefly explained that American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
had filed twenty-four objections to the conduct of the election, nineteen of which he dismissed and the
remaining five, he set for hearing. He advised the Board that Administrative Law Judge Clifford
scheduled a hearing on the five objections for May 16 and 17, 2006, and that AFSCME also filed an
appeal to the Board regarding the nineteen objections he dismissed. He also noted that herein, AFSCME
is petitioning to postpone ALJ Clifford's hearing until after the next Board meeting, to hold the hearing on
all objections at the same time. Executive Director Brosnan further noted that the Petitioner, International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 714, opposes AFSCME's motion. Member Piper moved that the Board
accept the Petitioner’s motion to hold the scheduled hearing in abeyance until after the next scheduled
Board meeting. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed the most current fiscal report prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Chairman also presented the legislative update, including the outlook for the Board’s budget.
Member Hade made a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss personnel matters. Member Taylor
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

The Board voted to return to open session. Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member
Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Hade seconded the motion. The Board adjourned
the meeting.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of June, 2006.

2

 