MINUTES OF TELEPHONIC MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 1, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on March 1, 2004 to
allow the final three bidders for the Emerald Casino, Inc. license to provide a presentation to
the Board. The Board first met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the
3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, William Dugan, Gary Peterlin and William Fanning.
The Board convened its Open session at 9:30 A.M. in the in the lower level auditorium of the
James R. Thompson Center, located at 100 W. Randolph, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that Midwest Gaming and Entertainment LLC would
present at 9:30 A.M., followed by Isle of Capri at 12:30 P.M., and Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. at 3:00 P.M.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that each presenter will have a two-hour timeslot to
address the Board and answer any questions that the Board has. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that each presenter has been asked to publicly address financing, the proposed
casino facility, and economic development.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there would be a meeting on Thursday, March
4, 2004 at 9:30 A.M. for the Board to hear public comments on the three proposals. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board continues to accept written comments at all
times.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that on Friday, March 5, 2004, the Board would
select a leading proposal.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that on Wednesday, March 10, 2004, the offices
of Kirkland and Ellis would be conducting an auction of the Emerald Casino, Inc. license at
9:30 A.M. and that it would be open to the public.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board would announce its finalist on March
15, 2004.

 MIDWEST GAMING AND ENTERTAINMENT LLC
Neil G. Bluhm, Chairman, was present on behalf of Midwest Gaming. Mr. Bluhm thanked
the Board and Staff for the opportunity to appear before the Board and for the hard work the
Board and Staff has put forth in selecting a final entity to acquire the 10th license.
Also in attendance on behalf of Midwest Gaming were Greg Carlin, President of Midwest
Gaming; Anthony Arredia, Mayor of the City of Des Plaines; David Wiltse, City Attorney
for the City of Des Plaines; Leslie Bluhm, daughter of Neil Bluhm and partner; Terry
Dougall, President of Dougall Design Associates and designer of the project; Dennis Dee,
Director of Merrill Lynch; Steven Rittvo, President of the Innovation Group; and Charles
Sklarsky, General Counsel for Jenner & Block.
Mr. Bluhm stated that Midwest Gaming was thrilled to have been selected as one of the three
finalist. Mr. Bluhm stated that he is very pleased to have this opportunity to brief the Board
on Midwest’s plan. Mr. Bluhm stated that he is confident that the Board would find that
Midwest’s proposed development would be the best casino project, not only in the State of
Illinois, but in the entire midwest.
Midwest Gaming representatives provided the Board with a presentation that provided
information such as the location of Midwest’s plan; Midwest’s experience in the casino
industry; the casino design program and plan; revenue and tax projections; revenue sharing;
the Midwest charitable foundation; ownership structure; and financing.
At 11:30 the Board retired to Closed session. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11),
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member
Peterlin moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Clark seconded the motion.
At 12:15 P.M. the Board reconvened into Open session.
ISLE OF CAPRI CASINO, INC.
Bernard Goldstein, Chairman and CEO of Isle of Capri Casino, Inc., was present on behalf of
Isle of Capri.

2

 Mr. Goldstein briefed the Board on his history and how he became involved in riverboat
gaming.
Also in attendance on behalf of Isle of Capri Casino, Inc were Tim Hinkley, President; Allan
Soloman, Executive Vice President; Rexford Yeisley, Senior Vice President of Finance and
Chief Financial Officer; Greg Guida, Senior Vice President of Development and Legal
Counsel; Less McMacken, Senior Vice President of Marketing; Dick Meister, Vice President
of Construction and Design; Robert Boone, Vice President of Human Resources; Dean
Decker, Managing Director with CIBC Worldwide; Don Storino, West Central Municipal
Group; and Peter Rosenthal, attorney for the Village of Rosemont.
Isle of Capri representatives provided the Board with a presentation that provided
information such as historical facts regarding Isle of Capri; how Isle of Capri operates with
respect to customer service, consistency, internal controls, and loyalty to its customers; Isle
of Capri’s management team and team members; community and charitable involvement; the
development of the project; and Isle of Capri’s expectations of the project.
HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC.
Alan Ludwig, partner in S-L Harrah’s Waukegan, was present on behalf of Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. Mr. Ludwig thanked the Board and Staff for the opportunity to appear
before the Board.
Mr. Ludwig provided the Board with history on how the project evolved.
Also present on behalf of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. were Gary Loveman, President and
CEO of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.; Jan Jones, Senior Vice President of Corporate
Communications & Government Relations; Jerry Boone, Senior Vice President of Human
Resources; J. Carlos Tolosa, Eastern Division President; Richard Hyde, Mayor of Waukegan;
Phil Enquist, Skidmore, Owings and Merrill Lakefront Redevelopment; and Charles Atwood,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. provided the Board with a presentation that provided
information such as the history of Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.; the location of the proposed
project; the economic need of the proposed location; ownership structure; statistics regarding
the City of Waukegan reflecting that it is an economically depressed area; statistics reflecting
how a casino in the City of Waukegan would benefit other communities and the State of
Illinois; Harrah’s Code of commitment and Diversity Statement; and Harrah’s expectations
of the project.

3

 At 4:45 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board adjorn. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

4

 