STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 16, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD April 1, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the November 18, 2014 meeting. Member Besson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-14-007
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 73/ Village of Elburn

General Counsel Post called the case, noted that Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Sarah R. Kerley issued a
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) with no exceptions filed and asked whether the Board wished to review
the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-RC-15-023
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Robbins
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-09-192
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee/ City of Clinton
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-14-142
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
General Counsel Post called the case. He then stated that an Executive Director deferral to arbitration issued on
September 26, 2014. The charge alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations
Act. He then discussed the appeal and responses that were filed. After his discussion he recommended that the Board
affirm the Executive Director’s deferral to arbitration. After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the
Executive Director’s deferral. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.

 5.
Case No. S-CB-14-033
City of Rockford/ Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association
General Counsel Post called the case. He then asked Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss
the issues of the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on October 21, 2014 the
Executive Director dismissed a charge filed by the Charging Party against the Respondent alleging violation of
Sections 10(b)(1) and (2) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act). She then discussed the appeal and
responses that were filed. After her presentation she recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After
discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Besson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of January, 2015.

2

 