MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
June 21, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, June 21, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois at 10:26 A.M. Present
were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of May 17, 2012. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

MGM Resorts International – Request to Refinance
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, and pursuant to Section
230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Gould moved to approve MGM Resorts
International’s request to make Nevada Landing Partnership a Subsidiary
Guarantor of the principal amount of $1 billion of MGM Resorts International’s
7.75% Senior Notes due 2022, which were sold by MGM Resorts International in
March 2012 to qualified institutional buyers. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – Nicholas A.
Tornow, Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Nicholas A. Tornow as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Internal Auditor for Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice
Hotel Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Hollywood Casino-Aurora, Inc. – Toni K. Johnson, Vice President – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve Toni K. Johnson as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the

 position of Vice President for Hollywood Casino-Aurora, Inc. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino –
Chad L. Clatterbuck, Surveillance Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve Chad L. Clatterbuck as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Surveillance Manager for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises,
Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Charles Moran,
President & Chief Operating Officer – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Charles Moran as a Key Person of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel in his position as President and Chief Operating
Officer of Delaware North Companies, Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Licensure and Denial, Levels 2 and 3
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board find suitable and approve 60 applications for Occupational Licenses,
Level 2 and 150 applications for Occupational Licenses, Level 3. Further, the Board
moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the following individuals:
Darryl W. Abrams;
Orlando D. Allen;
Kenya S. Bryant;
Tina A. Cohen;
Jared R. Liljenberg;
Ashley N. Marrow;
Brandon C. Milo; and
Javier O. Solis.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

2

 PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Donald M. Austin – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Donald M. Austin for failing to
disclose all material changes in information to the Board and that the Board revoke
his occupational license, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the Complaint unless he files an Answer to the Complaint or pays a
$500.00 fine within that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Marquis A. Davenport – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Marquis A. Davenport for failing to
disclose all material changes in information to the Board and that the Board revoke
his occupational license, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the Complaint unless he files an Answer to the Complaint or pays a
$250.00 fine within that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Tiera L. Dudley – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Tiera L. Dudley for her admission
of stealing currency from Rivers Casino – Des Plaines. Further, Member Vander
Weele moved that the Board revoke Tiera L. Dudley’s Occupational License, said
action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the Complaint
unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gould seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Jonathan M. Horkey – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Jonathan M. Horkey for
inappropriate behavior as a patron at the Hollywood Casino Joliet and the Harrah’s
Joliet Casino. Further, Member Holewinski moved that the Board revoke Jonathan
M. Horkey’s Occupational License, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days
from the date of service of the Complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within
that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING –
●

Request for Hearing – Yao J. Aoussi

Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Holewinski moved that Yao J. Aoussi’s request for a hearing be denied based
on the fact that he has offered no facts that establish a prima facie case.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:44 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 