MINUTES OF TELEPHONIC MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
May 26 -27, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Revised
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on May 26, 2004. The
Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Violet Clark and Gary Peterlin. Member William Dugan was present telephonically.
The meeting convened at 8:35 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member
Peterlin moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personnel matters.

Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 11:35 A.M.

Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Emerald Casino, Inc., DC-01-05 and
In Re The Matter of the Denial of the Renewal of the Owner’s License of Emerald
Casino, Inc., GL-01-01-Modifications to the IGB Letter Agreement to Reflect
Amendments to Emerald’s Plan of Reorganization. –
James Sprayegen was present on behalf of Kirkland & Ellis to brief the Board on the
confirmed reorganization plan for Emerald Casino, Inc. Mr. Sprayegan stated that the plan is
substantially the same as the plan that the Board reviewed and found acceptable in
December, 2003, as a basis for activating a fair, open and competitive sales process for
Emerald Casino, Inc.
Mr. Sprayegen provided the Board with handouts that outlined the reorganization plan. Mr.
Sprayegen discussed the difference between the revised plan and the plan that was approved

 by the Board in December 2003. Mr. Sprayegen discussed the features of the revised plan,
interest and Attorney’s fees, treatment of identified investors, and, as he stated, the “false
information” that has been spread about the confirmed plan and the sale of Emerald Casino,
Inc.
Mr. Sprayegen stated that the plan fully protects the Illinois Gaming Board’s regulatory
authority and its ability to preserve the integrity of gaming in Illinois.

Member Clark asked what happens to Mr. McQuaid’s claim if the Board does not
approve the revised plain.
Mr. Sprayegen stated that Mr. McQuaid does not recover on the $375,000 claim.
Member Peterlin stated that the bankruptcy court would ultimately have to decide if the
revocation hearings could proceed and questioned why the issue is being delayed.
Mr. Sprayegen stated that Kirkland and Ellis’ view is that the delay is unnecessary at this
point. Mr. Sprayegen stated that the revised plan is constructed so that the intersection of
regulatory State law and Federal Bankruptcy law separate and not interfere with each
other. Mr. Sprayegen stated that Kirkland and Ellis’ plan does not require, at least right
now, the bankruptcy judge to make that determination. Mr. Sprayegen stated that the
view of Kirkland and Ellis is whether the administrative proceedings proceed or not. Mr.
Sprayegen stated that the Board has previously determined that the sales process was
appropriate, which in Kirkland and Ellis’ view is the functional equivalent of the
application of any remedies that would ultimately be recommended out of the
administrative proceeding. Mr. Sprayegen stated that the license is not going to stay with
Emerald under any circumstances. Mr. Sprayegen stated that the license is going to
either be sold and moved to Isle of Capri or moved to one of the other two bidders if the
sales process proceeds.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board was waiting for the confirmation of the
reorganization plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that once the reorganization plan
was confirmed, the Board would be in a position to take an application from an applicant
for the transfer of the license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board needs to deliberate and review the changes
that were made to the plan. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would also like
to hear the opinion of the Attorney General as to if the Board should not receive an
application from the Isle of Capri or if the Board should receive the application from the
Isle of Capri and move forward to the suitability phase.

2

 Chairman Higginbottom stated that the sales process provides that should the winning
bidder not be found suitable, then one of the other two finalists could be selected to move
forward with a transfer of the license.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that he realizes that time is very important and the Board
will move forward to give Mr. Sprayegen an answer as it relates to the revised plan as
quickly as possible. Chairman Higginbottom stated that some of the changes in the
reorganization plan that was approved were not issues by the Board, some of those issues
that the Illinois Attorney General has and the Board can’t speak for her. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the Board has been notified by the Attorney General that she
does plan to return to the Administrative Hearing.
Owner Licensee Items
• Penn National Gaming Inc. – Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule and Request for
Relaxation of Financial Debt Covenants - Paul Jensen, Attorney, was present on behalf
of Penn National to request a waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board waive the two meeting requirement of Board
Rule 3000.105(e) and permit Penn National Gaming Inc. to present for Board approval
its request for Relaxation of Financial Debt Covenants. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Penn National Gaming Inc.’s request for relaxation of financial
debt covenants consistent with the terms and conditions proposed in its April 30 and
May 11, 2004 correspondence to Gaming Board staff members. Further, Member
Peterlin moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator, under Board Rule
3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of the appropriate
documentation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 12:15 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board recess to Closed session until May 27,
2004 at 8:30 A.M. Member Dugan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 8:41 A.M., the Board reconvened its Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) on May 27, 2004. The Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board
Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Violet Clark. Members Gary Peterlin and William Dugan were present telephonically.

3

 At 10:21 A.M. Member Clark moved that the Board adjourn. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

4

 