STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 6, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.— at One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Spfld

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the
State Panel; Keith Snyder, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of the State Panel (participated
by telephone-conference); Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah
Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel (participated by telephoneconference); and staff.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD SEPTEMBER 9, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the September 9, 2015, meeting. Member Coli moved to
approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s reports. She presented the
reports and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case Nos. S-CA-13-197 and S-CB-13-047
City of Park Ridge/International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present a brief recommendation of remedies
for the Board to consider. General Counsel Nelson stated that the Board heard oral arguments on this case and had
briefly discussed the issues that were presented to them. She then presented and discussed several alternative remedy
options for the Board to consider. After discussion, Member Coli moved to offset the amount of reimbursement to
employees for health insurance payments against what the Employer pays in increased wages. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Case Nos. S-CA-10-092 and S-CB-10-024
Brian Trygg/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/General
Teamsters/Professional and Technical Employees, Local Union 916

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the case to the Board. General
Counsel Nelson stated that Charging Party filed charges alleging that the employer and union, violated Sections
10(a)(1) and 10(b)(1) of the Act by failing to safeguard his right of non-association as a religious objector under
Section 6(g) of the Act. The Acting-Executive Director dismissed the charges. The Board affirmed the dismissals.
The Charging Party appealed the Board's finding to the appellate court. The court remanded the case and the Board
issued complaints. After a hearing, the ALJ concluded that the union and employer violated Sections 10(b)(1) and
10(a)(1) of the Act, and that Charging Party was a religious objector. General Counsel Nelson discussed several
alternative options for the Board to consider. After discussion, Member Coli moved to seek oral arguments at next
month’s meeting and to decide the case only after oral argument. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it by a vote of 4-1.

 3.

Case No. S-CA-15-033
Tri-State Professional Firefighters Union, Local 3165, International Association of
Firefighters/Tri-State Protection District

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the case to the Board.
General Counsel Nelson stated that on July 23, 2015, the Executive Director dismissed a charge that alleged that
Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and the Respondent’s
response. After her presentation, she recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After discussion, Member
Coli moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, Member Coli made a motion to
leave open session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss litigation matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1).
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the
end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Samolis seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open
session. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 17th day of November, 2015.

2

 