MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JANUARY 23, 1996
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on January 23, 1996 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Thomas Swoik and Kevin Lockhart, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile'
Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. The Board by unanimous
consent adjourned to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14)
and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matter:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at
12:20 p.m.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed
sessions of the regular meeting held on December 4 and December 5, 1995. Member
Browder seconded the motion.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire reported that Adjusted Gross Receipts ("AGR") for December
were approximately $96.3 million -- a 2.2 percent decrease from November 1995 but a 9.6
percent increase from comparable figures for December 1994. The Elgin Grand Victoria
attained the highest monthly AGR followed by Empress and Harrah's.
The Administrator referenced various monthly reports. He reported that both Harrah's
and Metropolis had low cancellation/disruption rates. Most of the non-cruising situations for all
licensees were attributable to the weather. He reported that licensees continue to be
aggressive in requesting identification verification. He further reported that a number of minor
changes to owner-licensee Internal Controls were approved by the Administrator in December.
The changes were technical and routine in nature.

1

 The Administrator stated that the Illinois riverboat licensees, operating through the
Riverboat Gaming Association, announced an industry-funded initiative to curb underage
gambling and to publicize and operate a 1-800 service to aid those seeking help with
compulsive gambling problems.
The Administrator stated that the Governor's State of the State message delivered on
January 10 reaffirmed his support for reform of the gaming tax structure. He further stated
that the biennial Auditor General's report had been completed on the Gaming Board and the
draft report showed no material findings. This report covers the two year period ending June
30, 1995.
The Administrator stated that two individuals, Reynaldo Punzalan and Baltazar
Argamaso, were banned from riverboats in Illinois on January 3, 1996.
Lastly, the Administrator informed the Board that staff from the Audit, Finance and
Enforcement Divisions conducted an in-house training seminar on the manner in which the
Illinois gaming tax is calculated.
At the request of Chairman Johnson, Andrian Levatino informed the Board of the
progress being made by the gaming industry related to compulsive gambling. She stated that
education and awareness components, public service announcements, training of providers
and operation of the 1-800 line would start on February 1. Ms. Levatino also stated that the
Department of Alcohol and Substance Abuse has been apprised on the initiatives and will be
kept informed of developments.
Member Browder inquired as to the total amount of funding thus far. Ms. Levatino stated that
the initial estimate of the budget is $500,000 but that they are ready to pledge more if it is
needed.
The next order of business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
Joseph Walsh, a Partner with the law firm of Winston & Strawn, representing the
Argosy Gaming Corporation requested approval of an alternative financing proposal to one
previously approved at the October 24, 1995 Board meeting. Mr. Walsh explained that Mr.
Uram and Mr. Long of Argosy Gaming Corporation had attempted to be at this meeting, but
bad weather caused disruption of their airline connection.
Mr. Johnson asked what the total estimated investment in the Lawrenceburg, Indiana
project would be. Mr. Walsh stated that the cost is estimated at $210 million of which Argosy
is to fund 60%.
Member Browder moved to waive the two meeting rule. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

2

 Member Browder moved that the Board set aside its motion of October 24, 1995
approving Argosy Gaming's refinancing and, in lieu thereof, approve Argosy Gaming's
refinancing proposal substantially in the form as described in the Registration Statement on
Form S-3 submitted by Argosy to the Illinois Gaming Board on January 10, 1996. This
authorization is subject to approval by the Administrator upon his review of the final
Registration Statement filed by Argosy with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
financing transaction described therein. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Dennis Gallagher, General Counsel representing Harrah's Entertainment Riverboat
Division, requested that Ms. Susan Clark-Jackson be approved as a Board Member of
Harrah's Entertainment Riverboat Division.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Susan Clark-Jackson as a member of
the Board of Directors of Harrah's Illinois Corporation (sic). Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
John A. Janicik, representing Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation, requested as first notice
to the Board, renewal in February 1996 of the corporation's owner license.
Administrator Belletire recommended that the Board consider a resolution extending
and clarifying the licensure dates for all owner's and supplier's licensed before March 1994.
Member Pyatt moved the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREAS, the Board periodically considers the renewal of owner's licenses
and supplier's licenses, and,
WHEREAS, the Board undertakes licensure renewal action on a specific date
during a specific month, and,
WHEREAS, the specific date of a Board meeting for a given month may change
from year to year, and,
WHEREAS, the Board desires to maintain licensure continuity,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
The Board affirms that Board action approving the renewal of a supplier's license
or an owner's license shall be construed for all purposes pursuant to the Act as in force
through the end of the month specified in the applicable renewal resolution.
And, be it further resolved that Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation's license, which
was renewed in February of 1995, is affirmed as in force through the end of February,
1996; and that Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruise' license, which was issued in
February of 1993, is affirmed as in force through the end of February of 1996.

3

 And, further resolves that the supplier's licenses for U.S. Playing Card Company,
Inc., GDC (Green Duck Co.) and Progressive Games, Inc., all of which were renewed in
February of 1995, are affirmed as in force through the end of February, 1996.
Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Mr. Janicik introduced Mr. Lee Kisner the President and Chief Operating Officer of ParA-Dice Gaming Corporation who replaced Mark Sterbens, effective the beginning of this year.
Michael Ficaro, representing Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. ("SIRCC"),
requested initial consideration of the renewal of SIRCC's owners license. Mr. Steven Perskie,
General Counsel and Vice President of Player's, gave an overview of the key points to be
presented.
Mr. David Fishman, Vice Chairman of Player's International narrated a video portraying
SIRCC from inception to date. The video depicted the impact SIRCC has had on Metropolis
and the surrounding communities and indicated that the unemployment rate had been
reduced, businesses are reinvesting in the community, the crime rate had dropped and
economic development had been stimulated. It further indicated that SIRCC supports local
community and civic events.
Bill Kommer, Mayor of Metropolis, stated that the City Council passed a resolution on
January 8, 1996 in full support of SIRCC to operate a riverboat in Metropolis. Mayor Kommer
spoke on the history of Metropolis and indicated that the governmental revenues generated by
SIRCC have helped create many new services for the city and expand and upgrade other
services.
Member Vickrey, after asking about other industrial businesses in the area, encouraged
the Mayor to use tax revenues generated by SIRCC to increase other jobs by attracting other
industries to the area.
Gary Kidd, past President of the Chamber of Commerce, spoke on the positive impact
SIRCC has had on the development of the city of Metropolis and the entire community. He
stated that they are actively searching for an Executive Director for the Chamber of
Commerce. Member Vickrey encouraged the Chamber of Commerce to look for an individual
with an industrial background.
Kevin Scronce, Illinois Department of Natural Resources, spoke on the cooperative and
financial support that SIRCC gives the community.
Pat Rogers, General Manager, stated that SIRCC is an entertainment company and
stressed that SIRCC will continue to make Metropolis a tourist destination and not just a
gaming site. Mr. Rogers introduced senior staff members and discussed the future plans for

4

 Players': a new restaurant facility and a new meeting facility with 9,000 - 10,000 square feet to
be completed by late summer or early fall.
Member Vickrey asked about the competitive challenges that arise as a result of the
new Evansville Aztar riverboat casino operation. Mr. Rogers responded, indicating various
ways by which Player's was addressing this competing operation. He noted that the new and
larger Player's riverboat recently put into service was brought on line in anticipation of the
Aztar opening. He pointed, also, to recent and proposed dockside capital improvements at
SIRCC. He noted increased marketing efforts the company was making. He stated that
SIRCC considers the Evansville area as a second market target. Member Vickrey indicated
that he would like to take a tour of Metropolis and Member Johnson stated that the Board
would consider a tour of the southern facilities at a future date. Member Pyatt asked how
much development had been done on land in comparison to barges. Mr. Rogers stated that
most of the developments have been on land (70- 80 percent). Mr. Rogers stressed Player's
commitment to Metropolis.
Mr. Perskie returned to request that the SIRCC's license be renewed at the next regular
meeting of the Board.
John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, Inc. requested initial consideration for a new
game, "Let it Ride" -- a game developed by Shuffle Master. Mr. Janicik described how the
game is played. Chairman Johnson asked what the appeal of this game is in comparison to
Caribbean Stud Poker. Craig Travers, General Manager of Casino Queen, Inc. explained that
"Let it Ride" is easier to play because the player only handles three cards.
Kevin Larson, President of Empress River Casino Corporation, requested initial
consideration to enable the Empress River Casino Corporation to provide its corporate
guarantee to its Indiana affiliate Lake Michigan Charters, Ltd. Mr. Larson stated that the
guarantee will be in support of a $50 million credit facility tentatively approved by the Bank of
America for the proposed funding of Lake Michigan Charter's gaming development in
Hammond, Indiana.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensure.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendation and approve the
applications for Occupational License, Level 1 for: Richard Stone, Lawrence Darnell and
Charles Natoli. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and approve 151
applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 291 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 3, and deny 3 application for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 11
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports.

5

 Member Browder moved that:
WHEREAS, as a result of Anthony Cosentino no longer being employed
in Illinois by a licensed riverboat casino owner, he is ineligible under Illinois
Gaming Board Rules to be licensed;
WHEREAS, Anthony Cosentino's Application lacked adequate detail in
relation to his role in the Stardust investigation to satisfy the disclosure
requirements of the Board; and
WHEREAS, a withdrawal of Mr. Cosentino's Application would mean that
no denial exists and that he could reapply for employment with a licensed Illinois
riverboat casino should an employment position become available in the future,
whereupon the Board would consider his suitability to be licensed at that time
based upon the entire record on that date;
THEREFORE, I hereby move that the Board:
approve Anthony
Cosentino's request to withdraw his Request for Hearing on his denial of an
Occupational Level 1 license pursuant to Board Rule 3000.405(d); approve
Anthony Cosentino's request for reconsideration of the Board's denial of license;
and approve Anthony Cosentino's request to withdraw his Application for an
Occupational Level 1 license.
Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and suspend the license of Susan Ruggeberg for ninety days and
require restitution to Harrah's in the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars to be paid.
Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and revoke the license of William Quigley. Member Cudmore
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of Steven Camp. Member Cudmore
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the

6

 Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of Joseph Saganes. Member Cudmore
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of Jerry Borrego. Member Cudmore
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and grant the application of Keith Vaughn. Member Cudmore
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Complaints and Disciplinary Actions.
Member Cudmore moved that the complaint for disciplinary action
against Keith Secrest be issued and that Mr. Secrest's license be revoked. The complaint
involves Mr. Secrest's ineligibility to possess an occupational license due to his criminal
background. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously
by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board Policy/Discussion Items.
Daryl D. Barklow, President of the East Dubuque Area Economic Development
Corporation addressed the Board regarding the closure of the Silver Eagle in East Dubuque.
He spoke about the improvements to the area (e.g. infrastructure around Frentress Lake,
upgrades to existing public service departments and grants to other life safety projects) due to
the license granted to HP, Inc. Mr. Barklow stated that the primary affect on the county of the
Silver Eagle shutdown has been the loss of 350 jobs. The ripple affect has been on the
vendors, the motels, the restaurants, and the service stations of the area. He stated that the
public officials of Jo Daviess County support maintaining this license in the East Dubuque
area. Mr. Barklow stated that he has had discussion with a small market operator who is
willing to operate the Silver Eagle on a lease/management contract with HP, Inc. and asked
the Board for guidance.
Judith Gratton, Chairperson of the Jo Daviess County Board stated that the County
Board at its January 9, 1996 meeting voted unanimously to encourage the immediate
resumption of gaming operations in the county and to strongly support a local entity's
management of those operations. She stated that the County Board will do whatever is
necessary to help retain the East Dubuque license.
Randy Lansing, City Manager of the City of East Dubuque spoke on behalf of the city of
East Dubuque to show support for the retention of the Jo Daviess County riverboat gaming
license. Mr. Lansing asked the Board for their support and backing to keep the gaming
license in Jo Daviess County.

7

 Sandra Berryman, Mayor of East Dubuque spoke on behalf of her constituents. Ms.
Berryman supports maintaining a license in Jo Daviess County.
Chairman Johnson suggested that Mr. Barklow may wish to put together a specific
package for presentation at the March meeting. Member Pyatt asked the speakers to specify
the types of support that were given to the Silver Eagle as competition from Iowa became
more fierce. Mayor Berryman indicated that several meetings were held regarding possible
legislative changes. Member Vickrey stated that he hopes that the building of an industrial
park pays off for the people of East Dubuque.
The next order of business concerned Board Rules and Regulations.
Administrator Belletire asked the Board to entertain the third draft of the proposed
Supplier's License rule which would allow Supplier's to have an initial one year renewal with a
four year renewal thereafter. This draft rule also makes provisions for restrictive licenses,
allowing the Board to renew for one year periods or to restrict a four year license if problems
should arise.
Mareile' Cusack, Chief Legal Counsel gave an overview of staff proposed revisions and
technical changes made to existing rules. Ms. Cusack stated that the changes would make
the rules more accurate and/or more consistent with current practices. Ms. Cusack asked that
the Board consider approving the initial submission of the rules to the Secretary of State.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to submit as an initial
filing with the Secretary of State, the proposed Rules presented to the Board at this meeting.
Member Pyatt further moved that the Administrator, upon written notification to all
members of the Board, may make editing or continuity changes in these proposed rules and
may also make adjustments to these proposed rules to reflect specific commentary and
concerns expressed by members of the Board or other effected parties. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Cusack further informed the Board that the initial comment period for rules
3000.230 and 3000.236 ended on December 28, 1995. One requested change to rule
3000.230 was in reference to the threshold for the acquisition and disposition of assets being
raised from $1 million (as provided in the proposed rule), to $5 million. Staff did not make that
change because of the Resolution that was adopted by the Board in September, 1995 which
delegates to the Administrator anything below $5 million. In addition, changes to Rule
3000.236 were suggested to clarify the intent of the Rule. Many of the suggestions were
incorporated in order to simplify and clarify the renewal process for owner licensees. Ms.
Cusack asked that the Board consider approving the second submission of Rules 3000.230
and 3000.236 to the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve the proposed Rules 3000.230 and
3000.236 for submission as a second filing with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

8

 The next order of business concerned the approval processes for authorized games.
Administrator Belletire stated that Board Members at the December Board meeting,
requested a clearer understanding of the requirements, procedures and decisions involved in
the approval of casino games. Mr. Belletire asked that the Board consider approving a
resolution that would clarify the approval process.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the following resolution:
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board
must authorize gambling games to be conducted by the owner licensees;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5(c) of the Act, the Board has jurisdiction over
and supervises all gambling operations governed by the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5(c)(2) of the Act, the Board has the power and
authority to delegate the execution of any of its power under this Act for the purpose of
administering and enforcing this Act and its rules and regulations hereunder.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
The Board delegates authority to the Administrator to maintain a list of Board
approved games, to develop and maintain definitions of approved games and to
implement a system to ensure that the rules of the approved games and the licensees'
corresponding Internal Controls are properly reviewed and operationalized. And,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT:
The Board hereby authorizes the following games, previously approved by the
Board or otherwise authorized under the Act, to be on the Administrator's list of Board
approved games:
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Single-Position Reel-Type Electronic Gaming Devices;
Single-Position Single-Game Video Electronic Gaming
Devices;
Single-Position Multi-Game Video Electronic Gaming
Devices;
Baccarat;
Mini Baccarat;
Give-Aways;
Big Six;
Blackjack or 21;
Caribbean Stud Poker;
Craps;
Multi-action Blackjack;

9

 .
.
.
.

Red Dog;
Roulette;
Sic Bo; and,
Twenty-One Super Bucks.

and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT:
Subsequent to this Resolution, no games other than those specifically named by
this Resolution or those approved in subsequent Board resolutions, shall be considered
Board approved games, and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT:
Subject to the Rules adopted by the Board, the Administrator is authorized to
approve Tournaments, Enhanced Payouts and specific elements or types of Give-Away
games.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice
vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 2:58 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

10

 