Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
June 13, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on June 12,
2018, in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a quorum
was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Legal Counsel Daniel Gerber, Legal Counsel Jared Smith (who arrived towards the end of the
meeting), Acting Legal Counsel Richard Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott
Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Audit and Financial
Analysis Staff Member Tammy Compton, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Office Manager
and Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Deputy Administrator-Enforcement Frank
Spizzirri and Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 11:04 AM. The Board Secretary verified that no
one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.
At 11:05 AM, Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the
Board discussed matters referenced in the closed session agenda.
At 11:38 AM, Member Robinson moved to adjourn the open meeting to Wednesday June 13,
2018, at 9:00 AM. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
At 11:39 AM, the Board moved to withdraw the above referenced motion to adjourn the open
meeting to Wednesday June 13, 2018. Member Dolins then moved to adjourn the Riverboat
closed session meeting and return to open session. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 11:40 AM, Member Robinson moved to adjourn the open meeting to Wednesday June 13,
2018, at 9:00 AM. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.

 The Board reconvened in Open Session on Wednesday, June 13, 2018 at 9:03 AM on the 5th
floor of the Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the
following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins, and Hector Alejandre.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of May 24, 2018. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS
September Board meeting was rescheduled to September 13 & 14, 2018.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration:
•

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – Courtney R.
Moritz – Junior Internal Auditor – Level 1

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Courtney R. Moritz as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Junior Internal Auditor for Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a
Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino. Member Alejandre second the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial/Final Consideration:
•

Global Payments Gaming Services, Inc. – Renewal of Supplier License

Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Global Payments
Gaming Services, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in June 2022, and find the following
business entities suitable as Key Persons:




Global Payments Direct, Inc.
Global Payments, Inc. and
Global Payments Check Services, Inc.

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials

2

 Member Dolins moved that the Board find suitable and approve 20 Level 2 occupational licenses
and 67 Level 3 occupational licenses. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
ADJOURN
Member Dolins moved to adjourn. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista, Office Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board.

3

 