Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
February 9, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on
February 8, 2018. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board
conference room: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Steve Dolins, Hector Alejandre, Dee
Robinson and Michael Hansen.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General
Counsel Agostino Lorenzini, Deputy General Counsel James Pellum, Deputy General Counsel
Sheera Hobfoll, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit
and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Finance Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator
Robert Burke, Office Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project
Manager Mark Stevens, and Deputy Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri. Legislative
Liaison Caleb Melamed attended via telephone.
At 11:02 AM, the meeting was called to order. Member Dolins moved that the Board retire to
closed session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), (15) and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the items listed on the
closed session agenda relating to personnel, staff recommendations, closed session minutes,
investigations concerning applicants and licensees, and probable or imminent disciplinary
complaints and litigation. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 11:44 AM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn the closed session and return to open session
the next day, Friday February 9, 2018, at 9:00 AM. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
On Friday, February 9, 2018, the Board reconvened the Regular Meeting – Riverboat – of the
Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) on the 5th floor of the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago.
Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Steve Dolins, Hector Alejandre,
Dee Robinson, and Michael Hansen.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of January 9, 2018. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed by a
voice vote of 4/0. Member Hansen abstained from voting.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
•

March 2018 Board Meeting:
Wednesday, March 7th

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration:
•

Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton, HC
Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora and HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood
Casino Joliet – Request for Initial Consideration of Refinancing Transaction

•

Boyd Gaming Corporation – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation – Request for Initial
Consideration of Refinancing Transaction

Final Consideration:
•

Casino Queen, Inc. / Casino Queen Holding Company Inc.
Transaction

– Refinancing

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the request submitted by Casino Queen
Holding Company Inc. to enter into a $55 million Term Loan Facility and a $5 million
Revolving Credit Facility, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Casino Queen, Inc., subject
to the final documentation being provided to the Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and
subject to revocation of this approval if the Administrator determines that the terms and
conditions are not materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Robison
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel,
and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino – Kimberly K. Ward – Vice President of Internal Audit – Key Person

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Kimberly K. Ward suitable as a Key Person in her
position as Caesar's Enterprise Services LLC’s Vice President of Internal Audit for both Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, and Southern
Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the identified 36 Level 2 Occupational
Licensees and 66 Level 3 Occupational Licenses, and authorized the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to:
•
•
•

Ja’Nerra Carson-Slaughter
Kristina J. Riddle
Donald A. Raimondi

2

 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Tracie Ramona Williams
Myesha Birts-Randle
Kiara J. Gaiter
Alvin B. Muse
Sheila K. Day
Veronica I. Vest
Oscar Eduardo Flores
Shaquile M. Reed
Alexander X. Vuong
Felice Wagner
Hubert Reyes

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Alejandre moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Tarachel Vauters
for failing to inform the Board of her arrest in March 2017; this action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed
within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Kyle R. Gutierrez
who was terminated for misconduct while on duty, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that
time frame. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Steven L. Villarreal
who was terminated by Hollywood Casino Joliet for misconduct while on duty, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is properly filed within that time frame. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Victoria Lashawn
Jones for her October 2017 theft conviction; said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time
frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of Thomas William
Kraft for his gross misconduct and his subsequent arrest for disorderly conduct, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is properly filed within that time frame. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.

3

 Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Konami
Gaming, Inc., fining it $5,000 for failing to submit its 2018 Annual Update Submission on time,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to
the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Southern Illinois
Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino fining it $25,000 for permitting
an individual on the Self Exclusion Program to cash a check at a Casino cage and play on the
Casino floor, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
At 9:32 AM, Member Dolins motioned to adjourn. Member Robinson seconded the motion. All
members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Board

4

 