STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 10, 2010

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 13, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the July 13, 2010 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from July 1 through July 31, 2010. He distributed the report to the
Board, and the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-144
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Bell's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board adopt the result determined by the ALJ. Member Washington moved to
accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion, and after
discussion, the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-09-007
Oak Lawn Professional Fire Fighters Association, International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 3405/Village of Oak Lawn
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and recommended that the Board affirm the ALJ's decision. Member
Washington moved to adopt General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-09-038
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-RC-09-060
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO, on remand from the Illinois Appellate Court, and recommended
that the Board uphold the ALJ's decision. Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's decision. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.

Case Nos. S-CA-06-089, S-CA-07-039, S-CA-07-113,
S-CA-08-075, and S-CA-08-077
American Federation of Professionals Union/Harvey Park District
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-08-225, S-CA-08-247, and S-CA-08-249
American Federation of Professionals Union/City of Calumet City
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-04-099
Jeffrey D. Cambora/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO,
and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to
do so.
7.
Case No. S-RC-10-158
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
8.
Case No. S-RC-10-160
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Bell's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

2

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports. After a short discussion regarding
whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was not necessary at this
time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of September, 2010.

3

 