MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
NOVEMBER 30, 1998 & DECEMBER 1, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board convened in regular session on Monday, November 30, 1998 at the
La Luce Restaurant, 1393 W. Lake Street in Chicago. The Board and its senior staff dined
together prior to the meeting.
At 7:55 p.m., Chairman Johnson convened the meeting with all members in attendance.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The closed session meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.
The Board reconvened its meeting on December 1, 1998 in the State of Illinois Building, 160
N. LaSalle Street, C500, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and Members
William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Terry A. Scrogum and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators Joseph C.
Haughey, Allan S. McDonald and Thomas F. Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack,
other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Browder moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:

 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:38 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed sessions
of the October 20, 1998 regular meeting. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Johnson reported that Board members gathered on November 30 for a social event.
Board members, spouses and several of the staff dined together at a local restaurant. The
Board did convene a formal meeting, retiring to closed session for approximately 30 minutes.
No formal public action was taken. The Chairman stated that Board members and staff
informally discussed the 1999 Board meeting schedule, possible projects for the upcoming
year, and the latest potential legislation in Springfield.
The Chairman further reported that Governor Edgar nominated Gayl Pyatt for appointment to
the University of Illinois Board of Trustees. He stated that Gayl has harbored a desire, for
years, to serve her alma mater as a Trustee. Gayl has received awards for her service and
dedication to the University of Illinois and more generally to higher education. The Chairman
noted that Gayl is known for her tireless work on the Board of the University of Illinois
Foundation. The Board thanked Gayl for her many years of service.
Member Pyatt stated that she has been very proud to serve on the Illinois Gaming Board and
appreciates the dedicated and hard working staff of the Board, her fellow Board members and
the licensees.
The Chairman further reported that:
• The Governor has acted to fill the Board vacancy that will be created when the
Senate confirms Gayl’s appointment. The Governor has nominated Joseph Tecson, a
well-known attorney and public servant to fill this position.
• Joe Tecson and his wife joined the Board for dinner last evening.

2

 • The Administrator requested an additional discussion item be added to the policy
section of the Agenda. The Administrator will give a brief report regarding requests
received to authorize new games to be approved for use in Illinois.
• Mikohn Gaming, Inc. listed on the agenda under Supplier Licensees will be taken up
in conjunction with a proposed Board action on a pending complaint involving PGI,
which has been acquired by Mikohn.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following October monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance; and
Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator noted that the November figures were not calculated in time for the meeting
but once the figures are finalized the distinguishing feature will be the remarkable monthly
total registered by Empress. Empress will likely finish the month with a $16-plus million AGR
-- between 20 and 25 percent above their “post-Indiana” average. The noteworthy element of
this increase by Empress is the fact that it results from a mistake -- one that is very costly to
Empress, though profitable to the State.
The Administrator also reported that:
• He authored for the Board background information on current and projected Board
priorities, concerns and projects.
• Effective November 1, Allan McDonald was appointed as Deputy Administrator of
the Audit and Financial Analysis Bureau of the agency. Al has served in this
capacity on an acting basis since April, 1998.
• Staff met with General Managers and discussed the development of a uniform
employment application. Staff is refining the form and hopes to present it to the
Board at the January meeting.
The Chairman asked if a column could be added to the monthly revenue comparison data
reflecting state tax share. The Administrator stated that the additional information would be
included on the reports in the future.
Owner Licensee Items
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) – David Daley, representing PGC, requested
initial consideration for a waiver of Board rule 3000.510. PGC intends to remain dockside to
perform “top-end” overhauls on its generators and to perform its dry dock inspection
examination. The overhaul work is tentatively scheduled for late January/early February and
the hull inspection is scheduled to begin in early March.

3

 ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“AGC”) – Brenda Bauer, representing AGC, requested
approval of James Perry as a Key Person.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve James B. Perry as a Key Person of Argosy
Gaming Company. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORTS (“ERR”) – Donna More, representing ERR, requested
approval of Nicholas Pritzker as a Key Person.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Nicholas J. Pritzker as a Key Person of
Elgin Riverboat Resorts. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licenses
PRATT MANAGEMENT LP (“PMLP”) – Edward Pratt, III, representing PMLP, requested
renewal of PMLP’s supplier license. Mr. Pratt described recent efforts by Hollywood Casino
Corporation (“HCC”) to acquire or improve its control over the limited partnership interests of
PMLP. The opportunity for HCC to gain an improved position is the result of the on-going
bankruptcy proceedings involving various “Sands-related” subsidiaries of the Greate Bay
Casino Corporation. Mr. Pratt provided a brief summary of the details of a complex set of
inter-company financial negotiations. He indicated a continued commitment to meet the
Board’s objective of ending the need for PMLP to hold a supplier’s license.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Pratt questions about the nature and structure of the management
agreement between the Atlantic City Sands casino and the subsidiaries of Greate Bay Casino
Corporation. Mr. Pratt and John Hull, Chairman of Greate Bay, described the differences
between the Sands management agreement and the PMLP-HCC agreement.
Member Browder moved:
WHEREAS, since December of 1995 the Board has repeatedly communicated to
Hollywood Casino Aurora (“HCA”) and Pratt Management, LP (“PMLP”) its concerns
regarding the percentage-based fee charged by PMLP to HCA; and,
WHEREAS, the PMLP management fee provides credit support for certain notes issued
by a subsidiary of Greate Bay Casino Corporation; and,
WHEREAS, due to the existence of such notes, PMLP was previously not able to
eliminate the percentage-based fee until the stated maturity of the notes in the year 2004;
and,

4

 WHEREAS, such notes are in default as a result of the recent bankruptcy of the Sands
Hotel and the restructuring of these notes may provide Hollywood Casino Corporation
with the future opportunity to eliminate the PMLP management fee; and,
WHEREAS, the Board is deeply concerned with the continued distribution of HCA’s
revenue to the benefit of persons not involved in the company’s ownership or
management.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board moves to renew PMLP's
Supplier’s license for a period of one year, expiring December of 1999. In renewing this
license, the Board orders PMLP to show cause prior to the next renewal as to why the
Board should continue to renew PMLP’s Supplier’s license.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve 128 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 264 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Having reviewed the staff report, Member Scrogum moved that the Board deny Cassandra
Cooper’s hearing request due to her failure to comply with Board rule 3000.405(c).
He further moved that, pursuant to Board rule 3000.245(f), the Board grant Cheryl
Helfrich’s request to reapply for an occupational license. Member Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Vickrey moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Gloria
Rodriguez and revoke her occupational license. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 PROGRESSIVE GAMES, INC (“PGI”)/MIKOHN – Administrator Belletire stated that in July
of 1998 a complaint was issued totaling $30,000 in fines against PGI for violating the previous
Board order regarding marketing of new games in Illinois. After the complaint was entered
Mikohn Gaming acquired PGI. Mikohn requested a hearing and asked to settle the case. Staff
recommend that an alternate complaint be issued and a $10,000 fine be substituted for the
$30,000 fine. The Administrator clarified that it was not Mikohn who was in charge at the time
that the complaint occurred. He further stated that Mikohn would now like to do business in
Illinois marketing products previously owned by PGI.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve PGI’s request to withdraw its supplier’s
license, contingent upon PGI’s payment of the fine associated with complaint number 9813.
I further move to approve Mikohn’s request to amend its product list to include
Caribbean Stud Poker on the list of supplies Mikohn is authorized to provide to Illinois
owner licensees.
Further, I move to clarify that Mikohn is not subject to the restrictions imposed on PGI
by the Board on February 17, 1998.
Moreover, I move to direct Mikohn to work with the Administrator to seek approval of
any other products or games Mikohn wishes to distribute to Illinois owner licensees.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Pyatt moved to amend disciplinary complaint number 98-13 issued against
Progressive Games, Inc. (“PGI”). The amended complaint reflects one violation by PGI
with a total fine of $10,000 for PGI’s violation of the Board’s February 1998 order
regarding PGI’s marketing of new games to Illinois owner licensees. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND
Member Vickrey moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Casino Rock
Island and fine the licensee in the amount of $5,000.00. The complaint involves Casino
Rock Island’s violation of its Internal Controls regarding repayment of credit and failure
to comply with the Board’s rules regarding computer monitoring of electronic gaming
devices. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Items

6

 NEW GAMES REQUEST – Administrator Belletire stated that he received a request from
AGC for the approval of two new games -- Spanish 21 and Three Card Poker. Staff is
reviewing the request and will be prepared at the January meeting to support approval of these
two games.
The Administrator further stated that the Board may need to clarify its policies in order for
these two new games to be played in Illinois. The Administrator asked the Board for guidance
on what licensure treatment is to be given to firms or individuals that hold the rights or patent
to a game. For both of these games the entities with the patent rights desire to enter a royalty
payment agreement -- a contract with owner licensees. The patent holder would not supply the
actual gaming device (table layouts). Instead, the entities will work through a separate
contractual agreement authorizing existing Illinois licensed suppliers to provide the layouts for
these games.
The Administrator noted two issues of concern. First, the Board should know something about
the background of the individual or entity benefiting from the royalty payments. Second, staff
has concerns about an entity’s efforts to evade the supplier license fees and integrity and
liability safeguards.
Chairman Johnson asked how the compensation stream to the patent holders would be
structured. The Administrator stated the compensation would be based on a flat fee for the
rights to the game.
The Chairman asked who would make the payment, the licensee or the supplier. The
Administrator stated that there would be a “rights agreement” signed by the owner licensee and
the holder of the royalty/licensing rights for a set of terms. He noted that this would be a
contract with someone who is not a licensed supplier. The Administrator clarified for the
Board that it is a gaming related contract but it does not involve a gaming device. The layout
would have to be purchased from a licensed supplier and the supplier might have a separate
relationship with the patent holder.
Chairman Johnson asked if there are any existing suppliers making royalty payments. The
Administrator stated that there are two or three -- one being a pending applicant for a supplier’s
license.
RULES - The Administrator reported that staff received a request from owner licensees to
modify the Board rules regarding the use of special chips for table games, tournaments and
specialized computer microchips for use in EGD tournaments. The current rules do not allow
for the use of these chips. The Administrator advised the Board that staff will meet with
representatives of owner licensees to discuss the rules and regulatory implications. Staff will
update the Board at the January, 1999 meeting.

7

 The Chairman moved for consideration of the proposed 1999 Board meeting schedule.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the following Board meeting dates for the
1999 calendar year: January 19, February 16, March 16, April 27, May 18, June 15, July
20, August 10, September 7, October 26, and December 7. Member Scrogum seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Scrogum moved that the
Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

8

 