STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 3, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Springfield, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel, and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 13, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the May 13, 2014 meeting. Member Brennwald noted an
error in the minutes. Member Washington moved to approve the minutes with the correction. Member Besson
seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-CA-12-057 and S-RC-10-133
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/ County of McHenry and McHenry County Health
Department

Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tarver’s
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own
motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-RD-14-003
Theresa Kyriazes/ Park Ridge Park District/ Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-CB-14-012
3.
John Blomenkamp/ Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Deputy General Counsel Kerley to present the issues of the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley stated that an
Executive Director dismissal issued on a charge filed by the Charging Party alleging the Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act. She then presented and discussed Charging Party’s appeal. After her presentation, Deputy General
Counsel Kerley recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to
accept the dismissal. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-CB-14-014
Steven Burrows/ Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then
asked Deputy General Counsel Kerley to present the issues of the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley
stated that an Executive Director dismissal issued on a charge filed by the Charging Party alleging the Respondent
violated Section 10(b) of the Act. She then presented and discussed Charging Party’s appeal. After her presentation,
Deputy General Counsel Kerley recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion, Member Besson
moved to accept the dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
5.
Case Nos. S-CB-14-017 and S-CB-13-041
Mary Levy/ Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that the
Executive Director dismissed the charge filed by the Charging Party, alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act. General Counsel Post, with the aid of Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal’s memo, presented
and discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and Respondent’s response. After discussion, General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. Member Brennwald made a motion to affirm the dismissal with a
modification. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of July, 2014.

2

 