Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: April 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
For the Department
Fikirte Wagaw, 1st Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: April 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:03 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: The March 2018 minutes were unanimously.
Commissioner’s Update: Fikirte Wagaw, 1st Deputy Commissioner reported the following on
behalf of Commissioner Morita:
• Synthetic Cannabinoids. CDPH is taking every precaution to limit the impact of an outbreak of
synthetic cannabinoids, sometimes called ‘K2’ or ‘spice’. Synthetic cannabinoid products are
unsafe and the health effects of using synthetic cannabinoids can be unpredictable and harmfuleven life-threatening. Over the last month, there have been over 100 patients hospitalized
across the state (30 in Chicago), with three associated deaths (one in Chicago), and other cases
seen in emergency departments. CDPH is teaming up with IDPH and law enforcement to
investigate synthetic cannabinoid cases, to prevent future use and death and have also
partnered with the media to instruct residents to seek medical care immediately. We continue
to monitor this situation.
• LGBT Health Report. The first-ever report describing the health status of lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender Chicago residents was released on March 26th, 2018. The report looks at
LGBT persons across various life stages, providing population estimates and demographics for
the approximately 146,000 adult Chicagoans who identify as LGBT, representing about 7.5%
of Chicago’s population. This report builds on the larger goals of Healthy Chicago 2.0.
• Westside Heroin Epidemic. On April 4th, 2018, CDPH Office of Violence Prevention and
Behavioral Health, Community Engagement and Commissioner Morita joined State
Representative Ford and Lt. Governor Sanguinetti at “Fighting the West Side’s Heroin
Epidemic.”, commemorating 50 years since the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Commissioner highlighted the city’s investments combat addiction, going from 1.5 million in
2015 to over $3 million in 2018, with all new dollars going towards the opioid crisis. This
includes $500,000 in new funding to support 500 more residents through medication-assisted
treatment and recovery homes.
• Black Women’s Expo. CDPH promoted its work around increased access to health resources
and information at the Chicago Black Women's Expo from April 6-8, 2018 at McCormick
Place. This work included community engagement work, LGBTQ initiatives, teen and
adolescent programs as well as sexual health.
• Community Investments. We will launch a new wave of Requests for Proposals this month,
seeking applications from community-based partners for a variety of public health initiatives.
Specifically, WIC and nutrition services, tuberculous response, lead prevention, violence
prevention and our healthy families program, which assist through home visiting services.
Combined, we will invest around $5.1 million in communities, which are part of the 50+ RFPs
our agency will issue this year.
• Chicago Ryan White Resource Hub. CDPH announced the launch of the Chicago Ryan White
Resource Hub, an online resource that serves as a central, virtual collection of quality
management resources produced or promoted by CDPH and PHIMC for building or improving
Ryan White Part A quality management (QM) programs and activities. CDPH has collaborated
with PHIMC to provide QM technical assistance and capacity building, identifying areas for
improvement and developing resources and trainings to improve Ryan White Part A services in
this jurisdiction. These activities and resources support 44 sub-recipient agencies providing
HIV care and essential supportive services to Ryan White eligible, HIV positive clients in the
Chicago EMA.
2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: April 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed all the students and a member of the
public. Dr. Lopez provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory
role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health. Dr. Lopez
mentioned, for today’s presentation, we will have an opportunity to hear and get to know two of
our BOH members.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava reported on the Policy Update:
• Tobacco ordinance. Today the City Council is voting on a measure that we and Mayor
Emanuel introduced to put health warning signs on the doors of all stores that sell tobacco. The
warning signs will contain factual information about health risks, countering decades of nonfactual marketing from Big Tobacco. These warning signs will be the first of their kind in the
country, making Chicago a national leader on this issue. The ordinance also bans all tobacco
samples that are free or of nominal price. Federal regulations already ban most sampling but
this ordinance closes all loopholes. The ordinance passed out of committee last week and we
expect it to pass the full City Council today.
• Manganese. I mentioned last time that the Mayor introduced an ordinance to ban any
expansion of operations that use manganese in Chicago. That ordinance passed. So there can
be no additional operations, or extensions of existing ones, that are crushing, screening,
transporting, storing, or handling material that bears manganese. There will also be a setback of
150 feet from the public way.
• ACA. The Trump administration has promulgated a rule that will let states water down
requirements for plans sold on the ACA marketplace. The 10 essential health benefits
established by the ACA—such as for maternity care and mental health services—can have
lower benchmarks, like covering fewer drugs or doctor visits. States will also be able to let
insurers spend less of their revenue on patient health care and quality improvement. Today,
insurers have to pay 80% of profits on such things. These changes do come on the heels of
sharp premium increases in 2017 and 2018 after efforts that the Trump administration
acknowledged were designed to undermine the law.
• Public aid. President Trump signed an executive order directing all cabinet departments to
produce plans that put more work requirements on able-bodied recipients of food assistance,
Medicaid, and low-income housing subsidies. HHS had already started giving waivers to
governors to who want tougher work requirements on Medicaid recipients, so this executive
order builds on an ongoing approach to public aid. The executive order does not call for work
requirements for people benefiting from the mortgage interest deduction, yacht tax deduction,
or the reduced tax rate on capital gains, among other things.
Presentation: “Chicago Board of Health Members” Victor M. Gonzalez J.D., and Steven
Rothschild, M.D.
Old Business:
Dr. Lopez mentioned the BOH retreat update is still pending.
New Business:
• BOH member, Juan Calderon provided a brief report on his trip to Puerto Rico with the
delegation and will provide a more comprehensive report in June.
• Dr. Lopez reminded BOH members to complete and submit the Economic Interest Form by
May 31, 2018.
3

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: April 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Public Comment:
A mental health advisory member in the audience mentioned, new psychiatric services will start
through the County.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:27 a.m.

Next Board Meeting: May 16, 2018, 9:00 a.m.

4

 