Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
November 16, 2017
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting - Riverboat on November
15, 2017. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conference
room: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Steve Dolins, Thomas Dunn, Hector Alejandre and Dee
Robinson.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General
Counsel Agostino Lorenzini, Deputy General Counsel James Pellum, Deputy General Counsel
Sheera Hobfoll, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit
and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Office Manager and
Acting Secretary to the Board Lucy Bautista, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, and Deputy
Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Lieutenant Ruben Flores.
At 11:06 AM, the meeting was called to order. Member Dolins moved that the Board retire to
closed session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), (15) and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the items listed on the
closed session agenda relating to personnel, investigations concerning applicants and licensees,
litigation and hearing requests, Staff recommendations and closed session minutes. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 12:25 PM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn the closed session and return to open session the
next day, Thursday, November 16, 2017, at approximately 9:00 AM. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
On Thursday, November 16, 2017 the Board reconvened the Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the
Illinois Gaming Board on the 5th floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois at
9:08 AM. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Steve
Dolins and Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of September 21, 2017. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
•

Board Meeting Dates for 2018:
o Monday, January 8 and Tuesday, January 9
o Thursday, February 8 and Friday, February 9
o Wednesday, April 11 and Thursday, April 12
o Wednesday, May 23 and Thursday, May 24 – Springfield

 o
o
o
o
o

Tuesday, June 12 and Wednesday, June 13
Wednesday, August 1 and Thursday, August 2
Monday, September 17 and Tuesday, September 18
Thursday, November 1 and Friday, November 2 – Springfield
Tuesday, December 11 and Wednesday, December 12

OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
•

(Board Action / Vote Required)

CEOC, LLC – Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino
& Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino – Request for Initial Consideration of Refinancing Transaction, Request for
Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule, and Request for Final Consideration of Amendment of
Refinancing Transaction

Scrivener’s Error: Member Dolins moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule and approve
the request by CEOC, LLC to amend the Board’s September 21, 2017 approval of CEOC’s
refinancing request by increasing the incremental term loan from $260 to $265 million resulting
in a total credit facility amount not to exceed $1.7 billion rather than $1.65 billion, including
subsidiary guarantee of debt by Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's
Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, LLC d/b/a Harrah's
Metropolis Casino, subject to the final executed documents being provided to the Illinois
consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote. However, the original total credit was $1.695
billion not $1.65 billion as stated at the meeting.
•

James W. Houser – Key Person of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers
Casino & Hotel – Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Delaware
North Companies, Inc.

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find James W. Houser suitable as a Key Person for The
Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel in his position as Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of Delaware North Companies, Inc. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Iris Yvonne Carruthers – Level One of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers
Casino and Hotel – Internal Auditor

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Iris Yvonne Carruthers as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as Internal Auditor for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 •

Brady J. Ranek – Level 1 of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino &
Hotel – Director of Operations

•
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Brady J. Ranek as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in his position as Director of Information Technology for Casino Queen, Inc. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
•

(Board Action / Vote Required)

Everi Games Inc. – License Renewal

Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Everi Games Inc. for a
period of four years, expiring in November 2021, and find the following individual and entities
suitable as Key Persons of the licensee:
• Michael D. Rumbolz;
• Everi Games Holding Inc.; and
• Everi Holdings Inc.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the identified 82 Level 2 Occupational
Licensees and 160 Level 3 Occupational Licensees, and authorized the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to:
• Jack H. Watson II
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson motioned to revoke the Occupational Licenses of:
• James Victor McNeil;
• Christopher Joey Siglar;
• Jamar Christopher Woodard; and
• Rheonna L. Yancey
for misconduct while employed at a licensed casino for which they were terminated, said actions
to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers to the

3

 Complaints are properly filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:43 AM, Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Secretary to the Administrator/Board

4

 