MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MARCH 17, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on March 17, 1998 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and Members
William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Kevin Lockhart, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack, other
members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Browder moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:10 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed sessions
of the February 17, 1998 regular meeting and that the Closed Session minutes of the Illinois
Gaming Board from July, 1997 through January, 1998, for which the need for
confidentiality no longer exists, be made available for public inspection as required by the
Open Meetings Act. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
The Chairman announced the April Board meeting would not be held on Tuesday, April 21. The
meeting date has been rescheduled to Wednesday, April 22.
The Chairman reported that a new hearing officer has been appointed in the matter of the license
renewal for HP, Inc. The new hearing officer, Royal Martin, is a Chicago attorney. Mr. Martin is
in contact with the parties to begin the hearing process.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted Gross
Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance; and, Internal
Control System changes. The Administrator advised the Board that the Par-A-Dice riverboat was
docked by the U.S. Coast Guard for at least 30 days due to potential damage to the hull. During a
routine examination a crease (but not a leak) was found in the hull and work is being done to
ascertain the amount of damage. The riverboat has been allowed to continue gambling while the
vessel is docked.
The Administrator also reported that:
• Nancy Mohr Kennedy, Executive Director of the National Gambling Impact Study
Commission has written to acknowledge a letter sent on behalf of the Board regarding
the Commission’s May 20 & 21 meeting here in Chicago.
• The Lake County group that made a presentation to the Board in February and was
denied an owner’s license did not request a hearing.
• The Illinois Casino Gaming Association, along with Bensinger DuPont & Associates
has requested to make a presentation at the April Board meeting.
The Administrator announced that Kevin Lockhart, Deputy Administrator of Audit, has accepted
employment with a private sector firm. Mr. Belletire thanked Kevin for his dedication and hard
work. The Administrator stated that an interim appointment will be made by the end of March to
assume Kevin’s duties. In addition to the interim appointment, Doug Bybee a member of the
Springfield staff, will assume a position where he will work on in-house financial analysis. Staff
is currently in the process of soliciting for outside financial analysis assistance to help staff on
large scale financial work.
The Administrator also stated that nine firms have responded to a solicitation for compliance audit
work. This work is completed quarterly by outside audit firms under contract to the Board paid
for by licensees.
The Chairman thanked Mr. Lockhart for his service to the Board and wished him well in his
future career.

2

 Owner Licensee Items
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT (“ERR”) - Donna More, representing ERR, requested approval
to transfer holdings of the Jay Arthur Trust, a limited partnership interest in the RBG, LP, to three
newly created trusts to benefit three of his children. Ms. More further requested a waiver of the
two meeting rule.
Administrator Belletire reported that staff has reviewed the partnership agreement and reported
that adequate safeguards are in place to assure limitations on any involvement of individuals that
are found unacceptable by the Gaming Board. The Administrator stated that staff has requested a
Form 1 be completed by the trustee. Ms. More stated that the trustee is in the process of
completing the requisite application.
Chairman Johnson asked Ms. More to reiterate the reason for immediate consideration of this
transfer. Ms. More stated that due to Mr. Pritzker’s advancing age and health problems he feels it
is a good time to put his affairs in order.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule to consider the proposed
RBG, LP transfer of ownership interest. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the transfer of 20 percent of the limited
partnership interest in RBG, LP currently owned by the Jay A. Pritzker Trust to the three
newly-created Hoinfad Trusts, Numbers 1, 2 and 3. This approval is subject to the Board’s
approval of any new Key Persons resulting from this transfer of ownership. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY - Don Malloy, representing Alton, requested initial consideration
for a private placement financing at the parent company level, Argosy Gaming Company. The
terms are currently being negotiated and preliminary terms have been sent to staff for review. The
purchaser of the private placement will be one to five institutional investors.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) and SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT
CASINO CRUISES (“SIRCC”) - Dave Daley, representing PGC, and Mike Ficaro, representing
SIRCC, requested approval for a waiver under Board rule 3000.260 from the requirement to
license hotel employees. Mr. Ficaro asked for a waiver of the rule and stated that none of the
employees from the Players hotel are employed at the riverboat facility. Mr. Daley stated that
PGC’s request is for a waiver of employees who perform activities that are unrelated to the
gaming business and who are physically separate from the gaming operation.
Administrator Belletire stated that staff looked at several issues in evaluating this request. Staff
evaluated whether employees traveled back and forth between the gaming operation and the hotel;
whether or not there was any potential for questionable figures to be allowed to have some degree
3

 of influence or involvement with gaming related operations; and, the conditions of payments were
looked at to insure that they were arms length transactions.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Daley if PGC had any employees at the hotel who work at the casino.
Mr. Daley stated no but reported PGC has asked to license some hotel employees so that there can
be cross over. Currently the cross over is from the pavilion to the hotel, not vice versa.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the proposed resolution submitted by staff
at this March meeting on behalf of Par-A-Dice and Players and waive the occupational
licensing requirements for those hotel employees specified in the resolution. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. (Resolution
Attached)
EMPRESS CASINO JOLIET - Mike Hansen, representing Empress, requested a waiver of rule
3000.510 to overhaul the number two generator on Empress I and to conduct an underwater hull
survey. Mr. Hansen stated that Empress has been attempting to obtain a waiver from the US
Coast Guard in Washington to avoid doing an underwater hull survey. The Coast Guard has not
waived the requirement so Empress has contracted with Specialty Diving of Louisiana to
commence with the referenced work.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Empress’ request for a waiver of Board rule
3000.510 to allow Empress to conduct gaming and remain dockside while Empress is
conducting an underwater hull inspection and an overhaul of the starboard second
generator set. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY - Don Malloy, representing Alton, requested approval of Larry
Doiron as Director of Surveillance.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Larry Doiron as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee of Alton Gaming Company. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT (“ERR”) - Donna More, representing ERR, requested approval
of Pedro Dominguez as Casino Manager.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Pedro Dominguez as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee of Elgin Riverboat Resort. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES (“SIRCC”) - Mike Ficaro,
representing SIRCC, requested approval of James Stevens as Chief of Surveillance.
4

 Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve James D. Stevens as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee of Players Island Casino. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licenses
ATRONIC CASINO TECHNOLOGY, INC. (“Atronic”) - Rick Trachok, representing Atronic,
requested approval of its supplier’s license.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Atronic Casino Technology, Inc.’s
application for renewal of its supplier’s license. This license is issued for a period of four
years, expiring March, 2002. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTING OF NEVADA, INC. (“Universal”) - Donna More, representing
Universal, requested approval of Hiroshi Fujisawa as a Key Person.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Hiroshi Fujisawa as a Key Person of
Universal Distributing of Nevada, Inc. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve 46 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 2, and 173 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 1 application
for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 4 applications for an Occupational License, Level
3. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Administrator Belletire reported on the findings of the three member panel that investigated the
issue of the “fair market value” of the Baise/Lucas contracts. The Administrator read from the
Panel Findings the following conclusion:
Based upon relevant facts, circumstances and information before the
Panel and relevant business and industry methodologies, practices
and customs, the Panel finds that the value of the consideration
provided in the agreements between the Owners and Lucas and
Baise is within a range of commercial reasonableness and therefore,
not in excess of fair market value of services provided.
The Administrator further stated that the report provided by the Panel includes expert opinions
provided by parties to the agreement. He further stated that all parties involved cooperated and
5

 agreed to be bound by the outcome of the Panel. Staff recommend that the report be adopted by
the Board.
The Administrator further reported that in the fall of 1996, the Board approved and staff
submitted to the Governor’s Office and subsequently to the General Assembly, legislation that
covered what to do with circumstances such as the above. In the draft legislation, that has never
gone beyond a committee in the General Assembly, provisions drafted would have prevented the
issue from arising. There would have been authority for the Board to nullify agreements of a
business nature that tie into ownership interests or implications. There were also provisions in the
pending legislation that would have made it improper for the parties to have entered into this
agreement without prior notification to the Board.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board accept the findings and conclusions reached by the
three person hearing panel concerning the fair market value of the contracts between
certain shareholders of Casino Queen, Inc., and Gregory Baise and Lawrence Lucas.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Brian Henryson’s Level 2 Occupational
License nunc pro tunc to January 17, 1995. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
KEY PERSON POLICY CHANGE
The Administrator recommended that the Board consider policy changes which refocus and
restructure the approach of regulating those currently classified as Key Persons of owner and
supplier licenses. The Administrator proposed that the Board:
• Reduce the number of individuals classified as Key Person, focusing attention on those
exercising substantial control or ownership;
• Codify, in rule and regulations, various Key Person policies, requirements and
procedures;
• Maintain and clarify the Board’s ability to obtain personal disclosure information and
conduct background investigations on other than Key Persons;
• Strengthen the Board’s enforcement requirements for those isolated instances where a
Key Person or shareholder should be required to disassociate from a licensee or, in the
case of a Key Person, be subject to fines as a disciplinary measure.
The current definition of “Key Person” utilized by the Board has lead to more than 250
individuals and business entities holding this status. Many of these individuals do not exert
meaningful control or influence, directly or indirectly, over the integrity or conduct of riverboat

6

 gambling in Illinois. Individuals with substantive involvement or ties to Illinois licensees remain
subject to the comprehensive personal disclosure and investigation requirements imposed upon all
Key Persons. Staff estimates that upwards of half of the current complement of licensee Key
Persons are individuals for whom less rigorous oversight is warranted.
Chairman Johnson stated that he would like to walk through some “what if” scenarios with the
Administrator before he makes a decision. The Chairman stated that he is concerned that a
company may restructure its organization to get around the regulatory requirement.
The Administrator responded that a discrete series of “decision rules” would be in place to head
off possibilities of avoiding the rules. A Key Person “catch all” rule was also written that states
“All other individuals or business entities that, upon review of the applicant or licensee’s Table of
Organization, Ownership and Control ... the Board determines hold a position or a level of
ownership, control or influence that is material to the regulatory concerns and obligations of the
Board ...”.
The Chairman also commented on the trustee relationships and the clarification the proposed rules
provide.
Member Pyatt complemented the Administrator and staff who worked on the proposed Key
Person rules. She stated that the rules are flexible and allow the Board to exert authority as
needed without regulating in an over-broad manner. Member Vickrey concurred with Member
Pyatt but expressed concern with reducing the number of individuals the Board will investigate.
The Administrator explained the “optional” application and how it would apply. He gave further
guidance and stated that any member of a Board of Directors of a licensee would be required to
file; anyone who is in management and who is on a Board of Directors of a parent company would
be considered a Key Person; any member of a Board of Directors of a parent company that is a 5
percent or more shareholder; and, any individual who held 10 percent or more of shares of a
parent company, irrespective of whether or not they were on the Board of Directors, was
presumed to be able to exert substantial influence. Staff tried to create concepts so that the Board
could use its flexibility and discretion.

7

 RULES
The Administrator requested approval of the initial filing and public comment of various rules.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the initial filing with the Secretary of State
of the following proposed definitions and rules:
• The revised definition of “Junketeers”, and the added definitions of the terms “Parent
Company”, “Person” and “Substantial Owner”;
• Proposed Board rule 3000.105, and
• The Proposed revisions to Board rules 3000.200, 3000.210, 3000.245, 3000.660, and
3000.800.
I further move that the Board direct the Administrator to distribute to licensees and their
representatives the proposed definitions and rules relating to “Key Persons” and report the
industry’s comments to the Board at the April meeting.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Administrator also requested that the Board approve the second notice filing of proposed
rules that parallel the emergency rule filing on the graduated wagering tax. No public comment
was received on this rulemaking.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the second notice filing of Board rule
3000.1071 with the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Chris Anderson, representing the Illinois Council on Problem and Compulsive Gambling,
addressed several issues while referring to the Illinois Gaming Board’s 1991 Annual Report and
Wagering Study. Mr. Anderson addressed the current state of compulsive gambling and asked the
Board to: 1) Issue a rule requiring all Illinois casinos to print the helpline phone number on all
print media at or near every entrance, exit and credit location; 2) Create a uniform volunteer
banning procedure; 3) Establish a more formal study of the issues consistent with the language in
the 1991 Annual Report; and, 4) Look into why there is no public advertising for the treatment
and funding of compulsive gambling.
Chairman Johnson stated that representatives from Bensinger DuPont and the Illinois Casino
Gaming Association will address the Board at the April meeting to update the Board on what the
industry is doing in the above areas.
Member Pyatt asked the Administrator if the licensees are complying with the legislation
regarding the posting of signs at specified locations listing the helpline number. The
8

 Administrator stated that it is the responsibility of the Illinois Department of Alcoholism and
Substance Abuse (“DASA”) to enforce the legislation passed on this issue. He further stated that
to his knowledge all licensees are in compliance with the legislation.
The Administrator stated that he met with the Department of Lottery, DASA, the Illinois Racing
Board and representatives of the horse racing industry. The purpose of the meeting was to get the
same kind of response going from all gaming industries as was going on in the riverboat industry.
The meeting was informal but progress was made. For example, on the back of each Lottery
ticket is an 800 number that allows the caller to be linked to compulsive gambling assistance.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that the Board
stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

9

 ATTACHMENT 1
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Players Island Casino has requested the Board to waive the licensure requirements
under Board rule 3000.200 for all employees of Players Riverboat Hotel and Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation has requested a similar waiver of the licensure requirements for certain Level 3
employees of the East Peoria Hotel Limited Partnership; and
WHEREAS, rule 3000.200(c) requires all employees of a “riverboat gaming operation” to have
an occupational license, and under rule 3000.100 definitions of “Riverboat Gaming Operation”
and “Support Facility” the employees of the land-based hotel are required to be licensed; and
WHEREAS, the duties of all of the hotel employees of Player’s Riverboat Hotel and certain
Level 3 employees of the East Peoria Hotel do not require these employees to enter the riverboat
or work at any other gaming-related facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that no regulatory purpose is served by requiring the
occupational licensure of all employees of the hotels and that it is in the best interest of the public
and industry for the Board to waive the licensing requirements with respect to those hotel
employees who do not enter the riverboat or otherwise work at a gaming related facility;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that pursuant to Board rule 3000.260 the Board
hereby waives the occupational licensing requirement of rule 3000.200(c) for all employees of
Players Riverboat Hotel.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board hereby waives the occupational licensing
requirements of Board rule 3000.200(c)(3) for the following Level 3 employees of the East Peoria
Hotel:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Custodians;
Guest Room Attendants;
Cashiers/Clerks;
Night Auditors;
PBX Operators; and,
Retail Clerks

MOREOVER, BE IT RESOLVED that the waivers of the licensure requirement for employees
of the Players and East Peoria hotel are subject to the requirement that Players and Par-A-Dice
immediately notify the Board of any changes which may cause the Board to reconsider or amend
these waivers of the licensure requirement.

10

 