SPECIAL MEETING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the August 18, 2016 Special Meeting of the Board
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call
Trustees Present:

John Fitzgerald, Diahann Goode, Alexis Herrera, Patrick McFadden,
Joseph Nevius, Dennis White (arrived while meeting in progress),
Lawrence Wilson

Staff Present:

Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor; Beverly Romanini, Office Manager

Trustee Herrera, President of the Board, opened the meeting for public comment and, no member of the
public being present and requesting to address the Board, the next item of business on the Agenda was
considered.
1. Cook County Employee Candidate Review & Recommendation1
Trustee Herrera stated that the Special Meeting was convened to allow the Board to consider those
candidates proposed by the Trustee Selection Committee at their meeting on August 4, 2016, for
appointment to the vacant County employee member position. The President stated that the Trustee
Selection Committee had asked Eddie Cole, Jr.; Michael S. Hickey; Andrew Jatico and Rose Ponce
de Leon-Hale to appear before the Board at this Special Meeting. She stated that each candidate
would have 15 minutes to present themselves to the Board and that each would be asked a series of
questions regarding their qualifications. The trustees would have the opportunity to ask additional
questions. The candidates would be encouraged to run for election to the Board if they were not
selected to fill the vacancy. Ms. Herrera proposed that the candidates’ presentations and the
question and answer period be conducted in Open Session and that the Board convene an Executive

1 Executive Session may be required under Section 2(c)(3) of the Open Meetings Act or as otherwise appropriate.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 Session pursuant to Section 2(c)(3) of the Open Meetings Act to discuss the appointment to the
vacant County employee member position.
Candidates Eddie Cole, Jr; Michael S. Hickey, Andrew Jatico and Rose Ponce de Leon-Hale then
each separately appeared before the Board and presented their qualifications. Questions from the
Board were proposed to each candidate and the trustees asked individual questions for further
clarification. Each candidate was advised that the Board intended to make the appointment during
the Special Meeting and that they would be notified of the Board’s decision shortly thereafter. The
candidates were told that petitions for election to the Board as a County employee member were
currently available at the Fund.
Upon the conclusion of the candidates’ presentations and questioning, it was moved by Trustee
Goode and seconded by Trustee Nevius, that the Board convene an Executive Session pursuant to
Section 2(c)(3) of the Open Meetings Act to discuss the appointment of a candidate to fill the vacant
County employee member position pursuant to Section 9-187 of the Illinois Pension Code.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Goode, Fitzgerald, Herrera, McFadden, Nevius, White, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

The Executive Session was convened and the Board returned to Open Session. It was then moved by
Trustee Wilson and seconded by Trustee White, pursuant to Section 9-187 of the Illinois Pension Code,
that Andrew Jatico be appointed to fill the vacant County employee member position on the Retirement
Board and that he should serve in that position to December 1, 2017.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

Fitzgerald, Herrera, Nevius, White, Wilson
Goode, McFadden

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

2. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee White and seconded by Trustee Wilson that the Special Board Meeting be
adjourned.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 