ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
November 26 and 27, 1990

Present:
William Kunkle, Chairman; Board Members:
Raymond Niepert, Robert Gibson, Jack Chamblin

J. Thomas Johnson,

Also Present:
Morton E. Friedman, Administrator; Joseph McQuaid, Deputy
Administrator/Enforcement; Roger Shields, William Eder, Thomas Biebel, Larry
Doiron, Gambling Officer Commanders; Donna More, Chief Legal Counsel; Robert D.
Steere, Assistant Director, Illinois Department of Revenue; Frederick R. Baird
II, Secretary of the Board; media; the general public

The meeting was called to order at 9:40 a.m. by Chairman Kunkle with all Board
members present.
The first order of business was approval of the minutes of the Board meeting of
May 11, 1990. The minutes were approved upon motion passed unanimously by the
Board.
The next order of business was approval of the minutes of the Board meeting of
June 5, 1990. Mr. Johnson noted a typographical error contained in the first
dot point of the fifth paragraph on page four. He stated that the sentence "An
applicant could apply after July 1, 1990 for a license effective January 1,
1992." should read ". . . effective March 1, 1992." The Board concurred with
that correction.
Mr. Johnson then asked for a clarification of Chairman Kunkle's statement
contained in the next to last paragraph on page four. Chairman Kunkle explained
that under his interpretation of Act if the Board took final action issuing
sufficient numbers of denials, or if sufficient numbers of applicants withdrew
their applications, so that less than five licenses were issued this year, then
the licenses not awarded would be available to applicants filing for 1992
licensure. Counsel did not offer any different interpretation. There being no
further discussion, the June 5, 1990 minutes were approved as corrected upon
motion passed unanimously by the Board.
The next order of business was appointment of the Secretary of the Board.
Chairman Kunkle recognized Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman first thanked Mr. Steere
for his work as Temporary Counsel and Acting Secretary of the Board. Chairman
Kunkle added the Board's thanks to that of Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman then
recommended that Mr. Baird be appointed Secretary of the Board. Upon motion,
Mr. Baird was approved unanimously as Secretary of the Board.
The next order of business was a review of the Riverboat Gambling Act. Chairman
Kunkle recognized Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman commented on the portions of the
Act which mandate owner's licenses for East St. Louis, the Illinois River south
of Marshall County, and Will County. Mr. Friedman commented that in the
Governor's signing message to the last amendment to the Act the Governor made
clear that the mandate was to apply only if the Board had an approved applicant
for the area. Mr. Friedman stated that research had brought him to the
conclusion that those provisions of the Act mandating licenses for specific
areas were unconstitutional special legislation under Article 4, section 13 of

 the Constitution of Illinois. Mr. Friedman stated that he did not mean to
suggest that these areas were inappropriate for licensure, but that in his view
their appropriateness was an issue to be decided by the Board on the basis of
merit, and not on the basis of the statutory mandate. Mr. Friedman asked the
Board not to rule on this issue at this time, and stated that it was his purpose
only to inform the Board of the issue.
Chairman Kunkle stated that he had reviewed Mr. Friedman's research and as an
individual Board member concurred with Mr. Friedman's opinion. The Chairman
further stated that he agreed that no official business should be taken today
with respect to Mr. Friedman's findings unless later deliberations compelled
consideration of the issue.
The next order of business was presentation of the proposed initial rules of the
Board by Mr. Friedman. Mr. Friedman briefly explained the rulemaking process to
the Board. The Board then discussed and adopted various amendments to the
proposed initial rules.
*
Mr. Niepert suggested that the definition of "Sole Proprietor"
contained in the application forms should be added to the definitions contained
in Rule 100. This amendment was adopted unanimously.
*
Mr. Johnson suggested that in Rules 101.10 and 210.30c the language
"revocation, suspension" be added after "discipline," and before ",or other
action." This amendment was adopted unanimously.
*
Mr. Niepert suggested that in Rule 215.10d1(b) the term "Board" be
substituted for the term "Administrator". This amendment was adopted
unanimously.
*
Chairman Kunkle suggested that the language contained in Rule
215.20d be changed to: "The Administrator shall report all relevant information
produced by his investigation to the Board and shall indicate his opinion as to
suitability." This amendment was adopted unanimously.
*
Mr. Niepert suggested that in rule 410.20b2 the language "either of
the" be added after "at" and before "Board's offices" and that "and" between
"Springfield" and "Cook County" be changed to "or". This amendment was adopted
unanimously.
*
Mr. Johnson suggested that language be added to Rule 415 to make
clear what is transmitted to the Board upon completion of a hearing conducted by
a Board member or an Administrative Law Judge. Mr. Friedman stated that he
could present to the Board prior to final adjournment a draft amendment to Rule
415 which would address this concern.
*
Mr. Johnson stated that he was concerned that Rule 420 was too
formal in nature, and that he was not sure that the Administrator should be
delegated subpoena power in order to conduct investigations of applicants.
Discussion of this question followed.
**
Mr. Friedman stated that the subpoena power was important to
get information from third persons who are not key persons or who have not
applied for a license, and therefore are not otherwise subject to the Board's
jurisdiction.

 **
Mr. Johnson suggested that Rule 420 might be construed so as
to take some of the burden of proving suitability off of an applicant and onto
the Board, and to dictate to the Board's staff how an investigation is to be
conducted.
**
Chairman Kunkle commented that the Board has an ongoing duty
to monitor, audit and investigate licensees and riverboat gaming, that the duty
of the Board to conduct investigations does not end with the issuance of
licenses, and that Rule 420 is directed toward those investigations rather than
the investigations of applicants. The Chairman suggested the following headings
for Rule 420: "Conducting Investigations" or "Post-Licensing Investigations."
**
Upon motion unanimously passed, Rule 420 was tabled in order
for the Administrator to prepare alternative language.
*
Mr. Niepert and Mr. Johnson expressed concerns about Rule 506,
commenting that it was unclear what a "bar" of a key person was, who could
implement the "bar", what an "interest in the owner" meant, whether a hearing
was required, and whether there were any appeal rights. Mr. Friedman stated
that he would attempt to present draft language to the Board prior to final
adjournment which would address these concerns.
Upon motion unanimously passed, the proposed initial rules of the Board as
amended, and as to be supplemented with respect to Rules 415 and 506, were
adopted by the Board. Chairman Kunkle noted that the fact that the Board's
rules had not gone through the formal rulemaking process did not preclude the
Board from operating under them. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Friedman discussed the
periods for public comments included in the rulemaking process, and the need and
desire for public comments concerning the Board's rules.
The next order of business was the presentation of proposed application forms.
Mr. Friedman submitted six application forms to the Board:
*
*
*
*
*
*

Owner's License Application Form
Supplier's License Application Form 1
Supplier's License Application Form 2
Personal Disclosure Form 1
Personal Disclosure Form 2
Personal Disclosure Form 3

Mr. Friedman commented that the Owner's License Application Form was based on
old Form I, and that the Personal Disclosure Form 1 was based on old Form II.
He stated that applicants having appropriate financial controls and bookkeeping
in place had no difficulty in responding to those forms. Upon motion
unanimously passed, the proposed application forms where adopted and staff was
authorized to distribute the forms to the public.
The next order of business was the presentation of applications by the
applicants for owner's licenses. Mr. Friedman explained that the presentations
had been scheduled starting with applicants from the northern part of the state
and proceeding south.
The first presenter was Roberts River Rides.
*
Board.

Joe Luby represented the applicant. First, a video was shown to the
Then, statements where made by Bob Kehl, co-owner of Roberts River

 Rides, Tom Fuller, Mayor of East Dubuque, and Don Eslick, a financial
consultant.
*
Mr. Kehl responded to questions from the Board concerning Mr. Kehl's
Iowa license to run a riverboat gaming operation, his investment in that
operation, whether the proposed Illinois operation would be a "second sister" to
the Iowa operation, and the impact of competition between his two operations and
between licensees located in geographic proximity to each other.
*
Mr. Kehl responded to questions from Chairman Kunkle about operating
his riverboats in the winter.
The next presenter was Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation.
*
Louis Garippo represented the applicant. His presentation was
followed by a statement from James Sheerin, president of Jo Daviess Riverboat
Corporation.
*
Mr. Sheerin and Mr. Garippo responded to questions from the Board
concerning when Jo Daviess would be prepared to begin operations, the affect on
its proposed operation if both Jo Daviess and Roberts River Rides were granted a
license, parties or persons who own an interest in Jo Daviess who also hold
interests in other applicants or in Iowa licensees, the fact that Jo Daviess'
proposed gaming operations manager is also the proposed gaming operations
manager for applicants from East Peoria and East St. Louis, whether the
changeover in percentage of ownership by the shareholders of Jo Daviess which
has occurred has affected Jo Daviess' ability to obtain adequate financing, and
whether there are mutual owners of Jo Daviess and its proposed gaming operations
manager.
*
Upon a question from Mr. Johnson, Mr. Friedman stated that under the
Board's new rules and application forms, issues concerning an applicant's
proposed gaming operations manager will not be addressed until after a
preliminary finding of suitability has been made. At that time staff and the
applicants will deal with the statutory prohibition against a gaming operation
manager working for more than one owner's licensee.
Whereupon, the meeting was adjourned for lunch.
Upon the reconvening of the meeting, the next presenter was Mississippi
Maverick.
*
Mr. Friedman stated that he was not sure of the status of this
applicant since the sole shareholder of Mississippi Maverick had resigned as an
officer, and because Mississippi Maverick was the only applicant which had not
paid its expenses as requested.
*
Marty Pistorius appeared representing the applicant, and stated that
there was a check for Mississippi Maverick's expenses. Mr. Pistorius made an
oral presentation and showed a video to the Board. John Marks, a developer,
made a statement to the Board. David Wabek appeared in order to answer
questions from the Board.
*
Chairman Kunkle stated that it is unclear as to who owns what and
where the money is coming from concerning this applicant, and commented that the
names presented in today's video are different from the names previously
disclosed to the Board.

 **
Upon a question from the Chairman, Mr. Friedman stated that
there is no documentation as to the corporate structure and ownership of
Mississippi Maverick, and that Mississippi Maverick's application was incomplete
when filed and remains incomplete. Mr. Wabek commented upon these issues.
*
Mr. Wabek answered questions from the Board concerning the fact that
Mississippi Maverick is applying for 1991 licensing even though no information
has been supplied concerning its investors and corporate structure, modification
of its gaming proposal, and its ownership structure. Mr. Krig responded to
questions concerning changes in Mississippi Maverick's projected boat capacity
and its financial projections.
The next presenter was the Schadler Mason Partnership.
*
James Montana represented the applicant. He presented a motion to
postpone the applicant's preliminary finding of suitability and to continue the
Board's meeting.
**
Mr. Friedman did not object to this motion, stating that this
applicant's application had been complete when filed, and the need for a
continuance arose from information which came to light as a result of the
investigation of the applicant. This situation differed from that concerning
Mississippi Maverick, which had never filed a complete application.
**
Mr. Montana stated that the continuance is necessary only to
clarify responses to the questions of the Administrator, and there would be no
modification to the existing application proposal unless a change is necessary
to resolve the concerns of the Board's staff.
**
Mr. Johnson suggested that in the interests of fairness, the
proper time to consider this motion would be after all of the applicants had
made their presentations. This procedure was adopted by the Board.
*
Next, Joseph Schadler made an oral and video presentation to the
Board. Mr. Schadler then answered questions from the Board concerning the
capacity of the applicant's boat, its financial and cost of labor projections,
and the ownership interests and nature of the partnership.
The next presenter was a joint presentation of the Rock Island Boatworks and
Boatworks, Inc.
*
Michael Ficaro represented the applicants.
presentation on their behalf.

Mr. Ficaro made an oral

*
Mr. Ficaro answered questions from the Board as to which applicant
Mr. Jumer, 100% owner of both applicants, would divest himself of assuming the
Board were to find both applicants preliminarily suitable, the ramifications of
adding a new 90% owner of one of the applicants at this late date, the
ramifications of granting more than five preliminary findings of suitability,
and which application Mr. Jumer would go forward with assuming that the Board
decided that it could grant only one preliminary finding of suitability to the
applicants.
Prior to calling the next applicant, Mr. Friedman stated that the check for
expenses which Mississippi Maverick had tendered earlier had been rejected for
insufficient funds.

 The next presenter was East Peoria Riverboat Corporation.
*
Tom Moore represented the applicant. Mr. Moore offered a statement
to the Board. In addition, statements were made by J. Walter Thompson, planning
director of the City of East Peoria, and Dale Burkland, president of the
applicant.
*
Mr. Moore answered questions from the Board concerning the ownership
of the applicant, the proposed gaming operations manager, the relation of the
owners of the applicant with owners of Iowa licensees, the development of the
proposed docking site, and the number of excursions contemplated on a daily
basis.
The next presenter was the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership.
*
Tom Long represented the applicant.
presentation to the Board.

Mr. Long gave an oral

*
Mr. Long answered questions from the Board concerning the proposed
parking facilities, the applicant's partnership capital contributions, the
projected gaming bet handles, and the affect of possible friction between the
members of the Connors group.
The next presenter was Riverboat Development Corporation.
*
Larry Suffredin represented the applicant. Mr. Suffredin gave a
brief oral presentation to the Board. Mr. Suffredin answered questions from the
Board concerning various ownership interests of Mr. Goldstein, former
shareholder in the applicant, and of the Goldstein family in Iowa licensees.
*
Carl Officer, Mayor of East St. Louis, addressed the Board. Mr.
Officer stated that the legislature had required a license to be issued for East
St. Louis, and any issues concerning the constitutionality of that requirement
should be left to the courts. Mr. Officer further stated that he was angered by
and personally resented the statements which the Administrator had made
concerning himself, Eric Vickers, corporate counsel of East St. Louis, and Joe
Terrell, 100% owner of the applicant. Mr. Officer stated that the accusations
which were leveled at him could be leveled at each member of the Board and the
Administrator. Mr. Officer further stated that he had been told that three of
the members of the Board had already made up their minds to deny the applicant's
application.
**
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Officer for the names of the three
Board members who had already made up their minds and the means he had used to
arrive at that determination. Mr. Officer stated that he did not know the names
of the Board members, but that counsel had told him that three Board members had
already made up their minds. Mr. Suffredin told Mr. Officer that he was not his
counsel, and that he had not told him that three Board members had made up their
minds. Mr. Officer then stated that he had been told by a reputable source that
three Board members had already made up their minds.
**
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Officer to identify the acts which
each Board member and the Administrator had committed which where the same as
the acts which the Administrator had complained about concerning Mr. Officer.
Mr. Officer stated that he had not meant that the Board members and the
Administrator had done those acts, but that they were capable of being charged

 with doing those acts, and acknowledged that he had no evidence that any Board
member or the Administrator had acted outside the law.
*
Carl Vickers, corporate counsel of East St. Louis, addressed the
Board. Mr. Vickers complained of statements which had been made by Mr. Friedman
concerning himself, East St. Louis, and the applicant, stating that the
statements were unfounded and asinine. Mr. Vickers then discussed the process
East St. Louis had used to evaluate the potential applicants for a riverboat
gaming license. Mr. Vickers then stated that he believed that Mr. Friedman had
conducted the investigation of the applicant in an unfair, unethical and
unprofessional manner. Mr. Vickers then discussed a charge of unethical conduct
leveled against Mr. Friedman in 1978.
**
Chairman Kunkle discussed the circumstances surrounding the
charge of unethical conduct relating to Mr. Friedman which had been referred to
by Mr. Vickers. The Chairman explained that when Mr. Friedman was chief of the
criminal division of the Cook County State's Attorney Office he had initiated
investigations into corrupt judges and had set up "phoney cases", a practice
followed by the U.S. Attorney in the Operation Greylord investigations. The
ground work laid by Mr. Friedman led to the indictments and convictions which
resulted from Operation Greylord. Mr. Friedman commented that in In re Friedman
the Illinois Supreme Court discharged Mr. Friedman from the recommendation of
censure issued by the Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission.
*
Joseph Terrell made an oral presentation on behalf of the applicant.
Mr. Terrell also discussed the application and investigation process, and stated
that Mr. Suffredin eventually told him that East St. Louis would not get a
license as long as Mr. Terrell was associated with the applicant. Consequently,
he agreed to sell his interest to Mr. Goldstein. Mr. Terrell stated that a few
days before the Board's meeting Mr. Goldstein told Mr. Terrell that East St.
Louis was not going to get a license even if Mr. Goldstein were 100% owner, and
under the terms of their agreement surrendered his interest in the applicant to
Mr. Terrell. Mr. Terrell stated that he is now 100% owner of the applicant.
**
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Terrell whether he knew of any basis
for the statement he said Mr. Goldstein made to him that East St. Louis would
not get a license even if Mr. Goldstein were 100% owner of the applicant. Mr.
Suffredin responded, stating that when he was informed that Mr. Friedman was
going to recommend that the applicant not be found preliminarily suitable, even
after Mr. Goldstein had become sole owner, he told Mr. Goldstein that in his
opinion the Board would follow Mr. Friedman's recommendation.
**
In response to a question from Mr. Johnson, Mr. Suffredin
stated that as a result of conversations he had with Mr. Friedman a week before
the Board's meeting he understood that Mr. Friedman would recommend that the
applicant not be found preliminarily suitable regardless of the ownership of the
applicant because of the manner in which river front property in East St. Louis
had been acquired.
The next presenter was Mississippi Gold.
*
Applicant, represented by counsel, did not make a presentation.
Instead, it asked leave of the Board to withdraw its application. Mr. Friedman
had no objection to the applicant's request to withdraw.
*
Upon questioning from the Board, the applicant stated that if it
were allowed to withdraw it intended to reapply next year in an entirely new

 corporate structure with entirely new ownership in which Marvin Ornstein would
not participate.
**
Mr. Friedman commented that when the applicant filed its
application Marvin Ornstein was its 100% owner.
**
Chairman Kunkle stated that if the applicant did reapply in
new form with new ownership it would advisable for the applicant to change its
corporate name.
*
Upon motion passed unanimously by the Board, the applicant was
granted leave to withdraw its application.
The next presenter was Mississippi Maverick, which was allowed to appear a
second time.
*
The applicant was represented by Mr. Jack Keane. Mr. Keane stated
that he had transferred funds by wire to cover the check tendered earlier today,
but apparently the wire transaction had not been completed when the Board's
staff called the bank to determine whether there were sufficient funds to cover
the check. Mr. Keane stated that there would be sufficient funds when the wire
transaction was completed.
**
Chairman Kunkle asked Mr. Keane why he was covering a check
for the applicant when he was no longer associated with the applicant. Mr.
Keane stated that he felt it was something that needed to be done.
Mr. Johnson asked whether there were any requests for a continuance other than
the one from Schadler Mason Partnership. Mr. Friedman stated that Schadler
Mason Partnership had made the only request for a continuance, but commented
that there have been ongoing discussions between Boatworks, Inc. and East Peoria
Riverboat Corp. concerning a merger of the two applicants. Mr. Friedman stated
that those discussions were initiated at his request in order to create a
stronger application, and to serve the interests of both the Peoria and East
Peoria communities. Mr. Friedman stated that he believed the discussions would
come to fruition, and asked the Board to delay consideration of his
recommendation concerning those two applicants if the Board was going to grant
the request of Schadler Mason Partnership for a continuance.
Mr. Montana appeared on behalf of Schadler Mason Partnership and renewed its
request for a continuance.
Chairman Kunkle stated that Mr. Friedman's request did not affect consideration
of Schadler Mason Partnership's request, because Mr. Friedman's request could be
considered during the presentation of Mr. Friedman's recommendations.
Upon motion passed unanimously by the Board, Schadler Mason Partnership's
request for a continuance of consideration for a preliminary finding of
suitability was granted for 30 days with the express understanding that Schadler
Mason Partnership would take the risk that the Board might issue five
preliminary findings of suitability to the applicants which had gone forward
today.
Whereupon, the meeting was adjourned until 9:00 a.m., November 27, 1990.
The meeting reconvened at 9:20 a.m., November 27, 1990, with the Chairman and
all Board members present.

 The next order of business was the presentation of Mr. Friedman's
recommendations concerning the applicants for owner's licenses.
Mr. Friedman thanked the Board's staff for their hard work, and thanked the many
government agencies which had cooperated with the Board during the investigation
process.
Chairman Kunkle stated that the Board had reviewed the information packets which
Mr. Friedman had prepared for each applicant. He commented that the packets
were very thorough and showed that the staff had done an excellent job. Mr.
Friedman then introduced the staff to the Board.
The first recommendation concerned Mississippi Maverick. Mr. Friedman
recommended that the applicant not be found preliminarily suitable, and made the
following comments.
*
The application of the applicant was incomplete when filed and
remains incomplete today.
*
The applicant used an invalid credit card to secure food and lodging
for business meetings. Its creditor was required to file a lawsuit in order to
receive payment.
*
Jack Keane, sole share holder of the applicant, made a false
statement in order to obtain credit from Aetna Life Insurance Co. Mr. Keane's
explanation was that he had to make the statement or he would not have gotten
the credit.
*
The applicant has an outstanding debt of $60,000 to a major
accounting firm located in Chicago. The bill is past due. The applicant
submitted to the Board preliminary revenue projections prepared by the
accounting firm which the firm had not verified or authorized for release, and
represented that the projections were the final work product of the firm.
*
The drawings of the proposed riverboat submitted to the Board were
crudely altered to indicate that the capacity of the boat was other than its
actual capacity.
*
During the course of the investigation the applicant hid from
interviews. Investigators made many unsuccessful attempts to gain information.
*

The applicant's financial consultant is a convicted felon.

*
The applicant has no financing and has no realistic prospect of
obtaining financing.
The next recommendations concerned Roberts River Rides and Jo Daviess Riverboat
Corp. Mr. Friedman stated that he felt that both applicants had good
applications and clean backgrounds, but that only one preliminary finding of
suitability should be issued between the two due to their geographic proximity.
He commented that there was no indication in the projections of either applicant
that the present market would justify two licensees on the Illinois side of the
Mississippi River in the East Dubuque area, and that the statements made
yesterday by Mr. Kehl support that view.

 Mr. Friedman recommended that Roberts River Rides be found not preliminarily
suitable for licensing, and made the following comments.
*
The applicant is the operator of an existing riverboat excursion
enterprise. The backgrounds of Mr. and Mrs. Kehl, the owners of the applicant,
as business persons and as individuals are impeccable. At any other location on
the Mississippi River, their application would be superb.
*
Because of the applicant's existing riverboat gaming operation on
the Iowa side of the Mississippi in that area, there are great reservations
about recommending preliminary suitability. The applicant has committed to
producing $1,000,000 dollars in revenue to the Dubuque Racing Association from
this Iowa operation. The applicant has an obligation to the City of Dubuque to
use its best efforts in producing passengers and tourists on the Iowa side of
the river. An Illinois riverboat gaming operation owned by the applicant would
detract from that obligation to the detriment of both the Dubuque and East
Dubuque communities.
*
The applicant intends to lease equipment from Iowa businesses owned
by the applicant, which would create the potential for conflict between the
taxing authorities of Iowa and Illinois.
*
The applicant does not have as much capital input as does Jo Daviess
Riverboat Corp.
Mr. Friedman recommended that the Jo Daviess Riverboat Corp. be found
preliminarily suitable for licensing, and made the following comments.
*
The applicant's capital input and business plan is reasonable.
applicant should operate a successful riverboat gaming enterprise.

The

*
The owners of the applicant have ties to the Alter Group and Bernard
Goldstein through family or business relations, but control should not be
imputed to them. Each of the owners of the applicant has independent sources of
income and are not dependant on any other person for their capital contribution.
They should operate as independent investors.
*
The applicant agreed that the total percentage of ownership of
persons identified with the Alter Group and Mr. Goldstein would not exceed 50%,
and that the right to vote for the open offices of the applicant would be
limited to the owners not identified with the Alter Group and Mr. Goldstein.
*
The applicant was very willing to respond to regulatory concerns,
even when it disagreed with those concerns.
Mr. Friedman made no comment upon the application of Schadler Mason Partnership
due to the pending continuance of their application.
The next recommendation concerned Rock Island Boatworks Inc. Mr. Friedman
recommended that the applicant be found preliminarily suitable for licensing,
and made the following comments.
*
The owner of the applicant, James Jumer, intends to duplicate in
Rock Island what he established in Peoria. Mr. Jumer's Peoria boatworks is the
work of creative genius and an outstanding tourist attraction. The Rock Island
proposal, if it does duplicate Peoria, would be a superb tourist attraction in
its own right.

 *
The projections and estimates of the applicant are extremely
conservative.
*
The nature of Mr. Jumer's financial dealings, as evidenced by his
income tax returns, is extraordinarily conservative. Money is routinely put
back into business investments.
*
The equity contribution to the applicant has been increased to
$1,500,000.
*
The background investigation of Mr. Jumer revealed no questions
concerning his integrity or character.
*
The valuation of Mr. Jumer's enterprises is based upon their
replacement cost. The replacement costs have been backed up by appraisals or
other documents. Therefore, valuation by replacement cost under these
circumstances is reasonable.
The next recommendations concerned Boatworks Inc. and East Peoria Riverboat
Corp. Mr. Friedman asked Chairman Kunkle whether the Board wished to defer
consideration of these applicants as Mr. Friedman had suggested at yesterday's
meeting. Chairman Kunkle instructed Mr. Friedman to proceed with his
recommendations, and stated that the Board would consider available options to
resolve the problems which were discussed yesterday.
Mr. Friedman stated that both applicants have good applications and clean
backgrounds, but that Boatworks Inc. has a statutory impediment against a
preliminary finding of suitability because James Jumer is 100% owner of it and
of Rock Island Boatworks Inc. In addition, Mr. Friedman stated that Mr. Jumer
is not in a position to choose between Peoria and Rock Island due to his
contractual obligations to Rock Island.
Mr. Friedman made the following comments concerning Boatworks Inc.
*
Mr. Jumer's Peoria boatworks is a work of creative genius and is an
outstanding tourist attraction.
*

Mr. Jumer's background and character is impeccable.

Mr. Friedman recommended that the East Peoria Riverboat Corp. be found
preliminarily suitable for licensing, and made the following comments.
*
The applicant's business plan is sound. Its capitalization is
excellent. It should be a proper and suitable operator of a riverboat gaming
enterprise.
*
There are some owners of the applicant who have a family or business
relation with the Alter Group and Bernard Goldstein. The applicant was very
responsive to these concerns, and there is nothing to indicate that there will
be any control exercised by the Alter Group and Mr. Goldstein.
Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Friedman whether the fact that the applicants which had
ties to the Alter Group and Mr. Goldstein had also indicated that they intended
to use Mr. Goldstein's business as the gaming operations manager of their
operation indicated an attempt to place control in the hands of Mr. Goldstein.
Mr. Friedman stated that in his opinion this did not indicate such an attempt.

 It merely demonstrated that the applicants desired Mr. Goldstein's expertise in
casino management. Mr. Friedman stated he informed the applicants as to the
statutory prohibition against a gaming operations manager working for more than
one owner.
The next recommendation concerned Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership. Mr.
Friedman recommended that the applicant be found preliminarily suitable for
licensing, and made the following comments.
*
Two owners of the applicant, Mr. Feers and Mr. Pratt, have
withdrawn. The other owners will assume those individual's shares. Their
withdrawal does not effect the financial viability of the applicant.
*
The thoroughness of the applicant's planning, the detail of its
financial reports and statements, and its responsiveness to the staff's
inquiries has been superior.
*

The applicant's financial and capital structure is superior.

The next recommendation concerned Riverboat Development Corporation. Mr.
Friedman recommended that the applicant not be found preliminarily suitable for
licensing, and made the following comments.
*
The applicant's sole share holder is Joseph Terrell. Mr. Terrell
was involved in United States v. Rohmer, a wire fraud indictment. Mr. Terrell
was named in the indictment, although not indicted. Transcripts and published
accounts of the case indicate that Mr. Terrell was a go-between between persons
who sought to do business in Louisiana and Mr. Rohmer, an elected Louisiana
official. The issue was whether monies paid to Mr. Rohmer were campaign
contributions or bribes. The trial court found Mr. Rohmer guilty. The
conviction of Mr. Rohmer was reversed on appeal because the court found that the
federal wire fraud laws did not apply to state charges of public corruption.
The reversal went to the applicability of the federal wire fraud law, not to the
propriety of the conduct of Mr. Rohmer.
*
return.

Mr. Terrell has a misdemeanor conviction for not filing a state tax

*
Mr. Terrell filed his 1988 and 1989 federal income tax returns
immediately prior to the filing of the applicant's application with the Board.
*
Mr. Terrell failed to disclose to the Board an $80,000 tax liability
to the federal government.
*
Both Mr. Terrell and Carl Vickers have had a contractual
relationship with the Gateway Hospital of East St. Louis, and have known each
other for some time. Mr. Vickers has been to Mr. Terrell's house in New Orleans
on at least five occasions.
**
Mr. Vickers used his bank account to receive money sent from
Mr. Terrell to be paid to Mr. Thomas, who is affiliated with Gateway Hospital.
Records requested from Mr. Terrell and Mr. Vickers relating to these
transactions have not been received. Both the State of Illinois and the federal
government are substantial creditors of Gateway Hospital, and these transactions
raise questions as to whether the creditors of Gateway Hospital have been fairly
treated.

 *
An April 24, 1990 memo from Mr. Vickers to Mayor Officer and the
East St. Louis city council is deceptive in what it does and does not say.
**
The first point of the memo makes clear that negotiations for
access to the river front for purposes of establishing a riverboat gaming
operation were to be conducted through the city.
***
Mr. Officer and Mr. Vickers had met with Terminal
Railway, the owner of the land, and had entered an agreement that Terminal
Railway would not deal directly with applicants, but would only accept
applicants approved by the city.
**
The fifth point of the memo stated that Terminal Railway would
only discuss access with parties who have land east of Terminal's land.
***
statement is false.

Interviews with Terminal Railway indicate that that

***

The only party who met that false condition was Mr.

Terrell.
**
The sixth point of the memo stated that Terminal Railway would
provided access contingent upon approval of the city and the state.
*
One potential applicant, the Connally Group, attempted to deal
directly with Terminal Railway. Terminal Railway refused to do so, which is
understandable in light of its agreement with the city. That applicant
attempted on numerous occasions to contact Mr. Vickers. Mr. Vickers refused to
return their calls.
*
Mr. Officer and Mr. Vickers went to Mr. Terrell's home in New
Orleans in January, 1990 to attend a superbowl party and to conduct other
business. From New Orleans they went to Alabama and met William Willshire and
Art Hahn. Mr. Vickers stated that Mr. Hahn said he was a representative of the
Alter Group. Mr. Suffredin, counsel for the Alter Group, has denied that Mr.
Hahn was authorized to represent the Alter Group.
*
In early March, 1990, Mr. Officer, Mr. Vickers and Terminal Railway
entered their agreement concerning applicants' access to the railway's land. In
March, without notice to the city council, Mr. Vickers escorted Mr. Terrell to
the offices of Terminal Railway and presented Mr. Terrell as an applicant
approved by the city. Terminal Railway then gave Mr. Terrell access by means of
an overpass to the river front.
*
An April 25, 1990 memo from Mr. Vickers left the city council with
the impression that they were about to decide who was an acceptable applicant.
That memo left the Connally Group with the understanding that it was to go to a
city council meeting in early May in order to seek city council approval to get
access to the railway's land.
**
At no time did Mr. Officer or Mr. Vickers disclose to the city
council or any other applicant that, without approval of the city council, Mr.
Terrell had been selected as the approved applicant and had received access to
the railway's land.
*
This sequence of events indicates that the city council and the City
of East St. Louis were mislead and not dealt with openly.

 *
Initially there was discussion, due to Mr. Terrell's background, of
the withdrawal of Mr. Terrell from the applicant and the assumption by Bernard
Goldstein of full ownership and control of the applicant. However, to allow the
applicant to proceed, even under Mr. Goldstein's sole ownership, would work an
unfairness on the applicants who were excluded because they were not favored by
Mr. Officer and Mr. Vickers, and would reward a slight of hand. Therefore, Mr.
Goldstein withdrew, leaving Mr. Terrell as the sole owner of the applicant.
Mr. Vickers approached the Board and asked whether he could respond to the
statements made by Mr. Friedman. Chairman Kunkle stated that Mr. Vickers had
had every opportunity to present his arguments to the Board, and refused his
request.
Mr. Friedman next discussed the application of Mississippi Gold, which had been
withdrawn at the close of yesterday's meeting.
*
A payment of $1,000 was made by Marvin Ornstein, sole owner of the
applicant, to James Wilson, an official of the Cairo Housing Authority.
*
There were a number of spontaneous demonstrations of public support
of this application. Payments of various amounts were made to various people in
order to fund these "spontaneous" demonstrations.
*
When asked about these payments, Mr. Ornstein stated that a public
official had asked him for money, and since he did not want to make the public
official angry he had given the public official the money.
Upon motion passed unanimously by the Board, the Board adjourned into executive
session at 10:20 a.m. in order to discuss the applicants and applications.
The Board reconvened its public meeting at 3:05 p.m.
Chairman Kunkle briefly described the application and licensing process as
required under the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board's rules, stated that
should an applicant be found not preliminarily suitable for licensing the formal
reasons for denial will be set forth in writing by the Chairman and forwarded to
the applicant, and noted that applicants who were not found preliminarily
suitable by the Board could request a hearing in accord with the Board's rules.
Next, Mr. Johnson moved that if the applicant from East St. Louis, Riverboat
Development Corporation, is found to be not preliminarily suitable for
licensing, then the Board shall issue only four preliminary findings of
suitability for the 1991 season, and hold open the license statutorily
designated for East St. Louis so that it is available to a suitable applicant
from that area. The motion was passed unanimously by the Board.
Upon motions passed unanimously by the Board, the following actions were taken
with respect to the applicants for owner's licenses.
*
licensing.

Roberts River Rides was found to be not preliminarily suitable for

*
Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation was found to be preliminary
suitable for licensing.

 *
licensing.

Mississippi Maverick was found to be not preliminarily suitable for

*
Rock Island Boat Works Inc. was found to be preliminarily suitable
for licensing.
*
Consideration of the applications of Boatworks Inc. and East Peoria
Riverboat Corp. was continued for 30 days.
*
Alton Riverboat Gambling Corporation was found to be preliminarily
suitable for licensing.
*
Riverboat Development Corporation was found to be not preliminarily
suitable for licensing.
The next order of business was presentation of the draft amendment to Rule 415
which the Board had requested at yesterday's meeting. Mr. Friedman proposed the
addition of a new section 415.55 titled Transmittal of Record and Recommendation
to the Board which would contain the following language: "Upon conclusion of a
hearing conducted by a Board member or an Administrative Law Judge, the person
conducting the hearing shall transmit to the Board the record of the hearing and
his written recommendations."
Upon motion passed unanimously by the Board, this amendment to Rule 415 was
adopted.
The amendment to Rule 506 requested by the Board at yesterday's meeting was
tabled so that staff could have time to prepare an appropriate amendment.
There being no further business, upon motion passed unanimously by the Board the
meeting was adjourned at 3:30 p.m..

______________________________
Frederick R. Baird II
Secretary of the Board

 