MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
October 7, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Friday, October 7, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois
immediately following. Present were the following: Members Hector Alejandre, Member Dee
Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas Dunn. Member Dunn chaired the
meeting. Chairman Tracy telephoned as noted in the Riverboat minutes, and explained why he
was not present and stated that Member Dunn will chair the meeting.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of August 31, 2016. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS:
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 5,684 locations up and running and there are
24,446 VGT's.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Request for Terminal Operator License


RCW Gaming, LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to RCW Gaming,
LLC, as the applicant has demonstrated its qualifications and suitability for licensure, for a term
of one year, expiring in October 2017. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
License Renewals
 Bell Gaming, LLC
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of Bell Gaming,
LLC for a term of one year, retroactive to September 2016, expiring in September 2017.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:

 Initial Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve 61 Terminal Handler licenses and 1
Technician license, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:
1. Michael Ray Gaither
2. Ryan Joshua Hayden
3. Christopher H. McAllister, and
4. Marlin Palmer
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Alejandre moved to approve the renewal of the Technicians and Terminal Handlers
previously licensed or renewed in September and October 2015 who properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained compliance with the
requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Video Gaming Location License - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 105 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, valid for a
period of one year, expiring in October 2017, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to:
o Krishna Mohan Corporation d/b/a Tow Bar
o Ottawa A'LURE, Inc. d/b/a A'LURE
o Venice Inc. d/b/a Venice Mart
o TNT Pizzeria, Inc. d/b/a TNT Pizzeria, Inc.
o Catch 22, LLC d/b/a Catch 22
o Danvers Y, Inc. d/b/a Lawndale Tap
o Johnny's Chophouse of Antioch, Inc. d/b/a Johnny's Chophouse of
Antioch, Inc.
o Rocky Bar Inc. d/b/a Rocky Bar Inc.
o K C 2120 Club d/b/a K C 2120 Club
o Beetle's Inc. d/b/a Beetle's Inc.
o Carranzakids LLC d/b/a Lucky Louise's
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal and Non-Renewal of locations (second motion)
Member Dolins moved to approve the renewal of the Retail Establishments, Truck Stops,
Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed or renewed in September and October
2015, that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and

2

 otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules, and I
further move to authorize the Administrator to issue a notice of non-renewal to:
1.
Cuco's Family Restaurant Inc. d/b/a Manny's Saloon and
Grill
2.
Rustle Hill Winery, LLC d/b/a Rustle Hill Winery
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing and Request to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved to deny the requests for hearing submitted by Johnny Dollar's Inc.;
JV Springfield, Inc.; Graham C-Stores Co. d/b/a Countryside Quick Shop; Oswego
Petroleum Inc.; Goals Indoor Sports Ltd., and Fox Gaming LLC, as the requests did not
establish a prima facie case for a hearing and/or otherwise failed to comply with Rule 615.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind its non-renewal from August 31, 2016, and renew
the establishment license of Smikit Corporation for a period of one year, retroactive to August
2016, expiring in August 2017. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant Panino's Italian Sandwiches & Crabshack, LLC
leave to reapply for an establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Failure to Maintain Valid Liquor License; Failure to Meet Minimum Qualifications
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Nickels Worth LLC d/b/a The Outskirts, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment licenses
of Short Liquors, Inc. d/b/a Blue Fish Liquors; Short Liquors, Inc. d/b/a Blue Fish Lagoon;
Short Entertainment Group – Dongola, LLC d/b/a Blue Fish Lagoon; and Short
Entertainment Group – Dongola, LLC d/b/a Blue Fish Lagoon (Cobden) because the
locations are closed or have outstanding tax liabilities, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Casale Pizza, Inc. d/b/a Casale Pizza for operating Video Gaming Terminals on an expired
liquor license, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
a $11,916.43 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of
D&A Company d/b/a The Fogcutter for operating video gaming terminals without a valid
liquor license and for providing false information to Board agents, said action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Failure to Report Information to Administrator; Obstructing Lawful Activities of Board
Agents
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of
Downtown Bartlett Inc. d/b/a Papa Pacino for its failure to cooperate with Board agents, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a $5,000 fine is
paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Properly Monitor to Video Gaming Terminals
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of
BJP Enterprises, LLC d/b/a Big Stix Sports Bar & Grill for failing to properly monitor video
gaming terminals, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,
unless a $1,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Prevent Underage Access to Video Gaming Terminals
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of:
 Illinois Café & Service Company, LLC d/b/a Dotty's (South Elgin); and
 Stanley's Family Sports Grille Inc. d/b/a Stanley's Alehouse and Restaurant
for failing to prevent access to Video Gaming Terminals to persons under 21 years of age, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is
properly filed or fine of $5,000 is paid within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Illegal Gaming Activities
Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment license
of:

4

 


DDJ, Inc. d/b/a My Place; and
Manito Tap, Inc. d/b/a Manito Tap

for allowing unlawful gambling on the premises, said action to take effect 21 days from the date
of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe or a fine of
$2,500 is paid. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Failure to Disclose Changes in Ownership
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of CNT Inc. Decatur d/b/a Harley's Hideout, for failing to disclose to the Board a change in
ownership, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an
Answer is properly filed within that timeframe or a fine of $1,000 is paid. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Hidden Ownership & Undermining Board Authority
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license of
The Village Plate Company, d/b/a The Village, for failing to disclose all ownership, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Final Board Actions
Member Dolins moved that the Board reject the Administrative Law Judge's recommended
decision and issue a Final Board Order pursuant to Board Rule 790 revoking the terminal handler
license of Mark Swinney for playing Video Gaming Terminals at an establishment where his
employer had video gaming terminals. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:37 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 