Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: July 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Juan M. Calderon
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent

For the Department
Fikirte Wagaw, 1st Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: July 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:03 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: The May and June 2018 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita reported the following:
Extreme Heat Response. Our team continues to work with the Mayor’s office, the Office of
Emergency Management and Communications (OEMC) and others to ensure Chicago residents
can stay healthy during current and expected heat waves. We have published and shared our heat
health tips and continue to monitor hospital capacity, to ensure the health care system can provide
care when needed.
Mental Health Training. In late June, I was proud to join Chicago Police at Olive-Harvey
College to announce the expansion of mental health training and services aimed to improve crisis
response for individuals with mental illness as part of the city's ongoing police reform. Following
the success of a mental health outreach project in the West Side, the Citywide Mental Health
Response Steering Committee is expanding the program to the South Side Roseland community.
The program will provide free mental health awareness training to reduce stigma and better
recognize the symptoms of a mental health crisis to support improved emergency response. In
addition, the city is investing in Smart 911, to support accurate, timely and effective dispatch of
emergency resources during a mental health crisis. The training is a key component of CDPH’s
plan to transform Chicago into a trauma-informed city, ensuring our entire City infrastructure can
appropriately recognize and respond to residents facing trauma and connect them to resources.
Housing and Health. On July 16th, CDPH joined Polk Bros. Foundation and Michael Reese
Health Trust to receive the 2018 HUD Award for Public-Philanthropic Partnerships. This award
recognizes work to foster the Chicago and Cook County Housing for Health (H2) collaboration,
which I chair. H2 is instrumental in our work to advance strategies like the Flexible Housing Pool,
increasing permanent supportive housing options for high-need patients. The award also follows
our work providing guidance to the Chicago Community Trust on their Housing+ grant program to
catalyze collaborations among housing and healthcare providers.
Pharmaceutical representatives obtain Chicago License. Last Friday, Drs. Carolyn Lopez and
Allison Arwady announced nearly 1,500 pharmaceutical representatives obtained a license from
the city of Chicago during the past year. In July 1, 2017, the city started requiring representatives
who do business in Chicago more than 15 days a year to obtain a $750 license. Representatives are
also required to complete ethics training, receive continuing education and disclose interactions
with healthcare professionals. The fees freed up an additional $700,000 in revenue that was
directed toward opioid addiction treatment and services, with a focus on medication-assisted
treatment, according to the city. The city said 4,000 residents were served in 2017, and an
additional $500,000 annual investment was also added to the efforts in 2018.
Opioid Funding. CDPH received an opioid overdose funding opportunity from the Centers for
Disease Control Prevent (CDC) but we learned that our department was not eligible for this money
and that there will be no separate, direct grant for locals. A joint letter was drafted from the five
affected local health departments. Megan Cunningham, Managing Deputy while in Washington,
DC met with Senator Durbin and advocated for the department.
2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: July 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
National Recognition. Following extensive site visits and reviews, Chicago earned ‘Established’
status for a medical countermeasure plan by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Chicago becomes the first jurisdiction in the nation to achieve this level – the highest for
operational readiness for medical countermeasures. This is a credit to the team’s hard work and
commitment.
Grantmakers.
CDPH was invited to deliver the opening address at the recent Grantmakers in Health national
conference, held this year in Chicago. The conference is the single largest gathering of foundations
and donors working to improve health outcomes. We highlighted Healthy Chicago 2.0 and our
ongoing work to build support from the philanthropic community. We also participated in Elevated
Chicago’s West Side tour where Anne Poser, Director of Health Equity and Strategic Partnerships
highlighted equitable transit oriented development in line with Healthy Chicago 2.0 goals.
Playstreets. Last week CDPH celebrated PlayStreets Week, which supports community groups as
they host dozens of events that encourage children and their families to get out and play - focusing
special attention on neighborhoods with limited resources. PlayStreets is a key part of Healthy
Chicago 2.0 and is a great way to bring together communities, neighbors and families and
encourage Chicagoans to practice healthy lifestyles. There are 170 PlayStreets events scheduled
during the summer of 2018. Each event takes over a residential block, closing it off from traffic for
three to four hours and transforms the area into a play-filled summer oasis that includes sports
activities, dancing, games, fitness classes, healthy snacks and bounce houses.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed all the students from the UIC
Articulation Program. Dr. Lopez provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the
board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health. Dr.
Lopez mentioned, we need to remember as public health advocates our voice is essential and
critical for what is right.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava reported on the Policy Update:
Opioids.
• CDPH and Mayor Emanuel announced that about 4,000 people were served in 2017 through a
$700K investment, which used funding freed up by fees from the pharmaceutical
representative license. A milestone of 1,500 licensed pharmaceutical representatives has been
reached. The license requires ethical standards, training, and more disclosure than anywhere
else in the country. The story was covered in the Sun Times and other outlets.
• Dr. Morita co-signed a letter with the health commissioners of Los Angeles, New York,
Philadelphia, and Houston to the CDC objecting to the lack of federal funds for big cities to
fight the opioid epidemic. Some money has gone to states and some to individual healthcare
institutions, but none to the big city health departments that face disproportionate effects of the
epidemic and have the capacity to coordinate effective responses on the ground.
• Pfizer is postponing price hikes originally intended for July 1 on 100 products until after the
mid-term elections.
• The DOJ has issued a rule enhancing the DEA’s authority to lower production of opioids if it
believes there’s misuse. This coincides with a Senate report indicating that major drug
distributors and manufacturers have failed to find and report suspicious opioid orders to the
DEA. Amerisource Bergen and McKesson were singled out.
3

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: July 18, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Family planning.
• The Supreme Court decided 5-4 against a law requiring crisis pregnancy centers—which often
appear to have medical expertise but in fact are staffed by lay people counseling patients
against abortion—to disclose their non-medical status and inform clients about the availability
of abortion procedures.
• CDPH submitted an application for $1M to HHS to continue our Teen Pregnancy Prevention
evaluation after the Trump administration cut it but a court ruling declared we and other cities
were eligible to reapply for funds.
Bulk materials. We received all public comments on our proposal to amend the rules on bulk
materials such as manganese. The comments are posted online, and they follow a hearing we held
on the southeast side to receive feedback. As mentioned last month, our proposal included saying
facilities must fully enclose their operations or put up air monitors to prove the dust isn’t escaping
into the neighborhood.
ACA. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services will cut $26 million to nonprofit
organizations for navigators to help people enroll in the ACA. The total budget now will be just
$10 million—an 80% drop since Trump came into office.
Food. New food safety rules in Chicago went into effect on July 1. These rules are modest changes
from the preceding ones. Some of the changes include requiring that all packaged food be labeled
with a list of ingredients all potentially hazardous food be marked with a sell-by or consume-by
date.
New policy staffer. CDPH’s policy team has hired a new senior policy analyst to work on chronic
disease and other issues. Todd Fraley started on Monday and has been a policy analyst for years at
the Respiratory Health Association, where he partnered with us many times to help lay the
foundation for our tobacco policy changes.
Presentation: “Chicago Board of Health Members” Horace E. Smith, M.D. and Juan Calderon.
New Business:
Old Business:
Dr. Lopez mentioned, she will contact BOH members relative to their role as members.

Public Comment:
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:39 a.m.

Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, August 15, 2018, 9:00 AM

4

 