STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 10, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD August 13, 2013

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the August 13, 2013 meeting. Member Besson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from August 1 through 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-136
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ State of Illinois, Central
Management Services

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post noted that on
December 21, 2012, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Owen issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO)
recommending that the Board dismiss a representation petition. He then presented and discussed the Petitioner’s
exceptions. After his presentation he recommended that the Board accept the ALJ’s decision. After discussion,
Member Washington moved to accept the ALJ’s recommendation. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-10-299
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Northern Illinois University, Chapter #291/ Northern Illinois
University
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-CA-12-017
3.
International Association of Firefighters, Local 26/ City of Rock Island
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Stevens’ RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case Nos. S-CA-12-197, S-CA-12-201, S-CA-12-211
Tyron McCullough/ Harvey Park District

 Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

5.
Case No. S-CA-10-167
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Orland Park Chapter #159/ Village of Orland Park
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July 18, 2013 an
Executive Director’s dismissal issued. He then asked Counsel Kazanjian to present the case. Counsel Kazanjian
stated that the charge alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act by taking disciplinary actions against
Joseph S. McGreal, a peace officer employed by Respondent and a member of a bargaining unit. Mr. McGreal filed a
motion to intervene which General Counsel Post denied. He then filed an appeal. Neither Charging Party nor
Respondent filed an appeal to the dismissal or a response to Mr. McGreal's appeal. After his presentation, Counsel
Kazanjian recommended that the Executive Director's dismissal be sustained. After discussion, Member Coli moved
to accept the dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-13-077
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter #351/ Village of Oak Lawn
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July 23, 2013 an
Executive Director’s dismissal issued. He then asked Counsel Sidwell to present the case. Counsel Sidwell stated that
the charge alleged that Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(1), 10(a)(2) and 10(a)(4) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act. She then presented and discussed Charging Party’s appeal and Respondent’s response after which she
recommended to the Board that they uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the dismissal. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-13-193
Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1028/ Pace Suburban Bus
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July 25, 2013 an
Executive Director’s dismissal issued. He then asked Counsel Sanceda to present the case. Counsel Sanceda stated
that the charge alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. She then
presented and discussed Charging Party’s appeal after which she recommended that the Board uphold the Executive
Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the dismissal. Member Besson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at that time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 24th day of September, 2013.

2

 