MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
May 24, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Tuesday, May 24, 2005 Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the Heritage Ballroom at the Centre of Elgin in Elgin, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe and Members Gary
Peterlin, Eugene Winkler and Charles Gardner. Member William Dugan was not present for
the May 24, 2005 meeting.
Chairman Jaffe convened the May 24, 2005 Regular Meeting at 10:30 A.M. in the
conference room of the Centre of Elgin.
Member Winkler moved that the Board reconvene into Open session. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:40 P.M.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of March 24, 2005, Special Meeting of March 30, 2005, Special Meeting of
April 13, 2005, Special Meeting of April 14, 2005, Regular Meeting of April 21, 2005,
Special Meeting of May 3, 2005 and the open session minutes of its Special Meeting of
March 24, 2005, Special Meeting of March 30, 2005, Special Meeting of April 13, 2005,
Special Meeting of April 14, 2005, Regular Meeting of April 21, 2005, and its Special
Meeting of May 3, 2005. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Gardner noted that the minutes from the April 21, 2005 meeting should indicate that
the next Board meeting would not be on June 7, 2005 but on June 8, 2005.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe stated that there are discussions going on in Springfield regarding legislation
surrounding gaming in Illinois. Chairman Jaffe stated that legislators are meeting with
representatives from the Governor’s Office to discuss various proposals. Chairman Jaffe
stated that there have been talks about additional gaming positions at each of the casinos.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the most important thing that the legislators should be talking
about if they are expanding gambling in the State of Illinois, is that there is a need for a
strong regulatory agency. Chairman Jaffe stated that he feels that having a strong regulatory

 agency would be good for the people in the State of Illinois, as well as for the gaming
industry.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Gaming Board’s independence Bill is still before the Rules
Committee. Chairman Jaffe stated that it is his hope that the leaders in the General
Assembly would put the Bill on the top of their agenda. Chairman Jaffe stated that the
gaming industry needs a strong regulatory agency. Chairman Jaffe stated reiterated that out
of all of the things that the Board has proposed to the General Assembly, he feels that the
Board’s independence is the most important issue. Chairman Jaffe stated everyone has
indicated that they are in support of an independent board. Chairman Jaffe stated that now is
the time for the legislature and the Governor to come forth and show that they are in fact for
an independent board. Chairman Jaffe stressed that it is extremely important that the Board
gets its independence. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board should not have to go to any
other agency head to get permission to hire people and set policies. Chairman Jaffe stated
that the Board is under budget and understaffed because the Board can’t hire the people that
it needs to due to all of the red tape required by the Department of Revenue.
Board Members’ Comments
Member Peterlin stated that he is happy to see how Chairman Jaffe has “carried the ball” on
the issue of independence. Member Peterlin stated that it is really a pleasure to be serving
with the new Board members.
Member Peterlin stated that it is a privilege to be in a community that hosts a facility.
Member Peterlin stated that to be out in the community is very important. Member Peterlin
stated that visiting the community of the casino allows the Board the opportunity to interact
with the community and also allows the Board to see the community.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo briefed the public on what the Board discussed in Closed
session.
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the Board has been able to retain, through the
Illinois State Police, eight agents for the casinos. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
two of the individuals currently work for the Gaming Board as investigators, so the Board is
looking to replace those investigative positions. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that
Staff has requested permission from the Department of Revenue to hire two additional
revenue positions.
Interim Tamayo stated that Staff received approval from the Department of Revenue to
replace the Operations Manager position. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff
would be posting the position to supervise five riverboats within the next few days.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has requested from the Department of
Revenue to hire four 75-day temporary agents to assist with investigations; a SPSA
2

 Investigations Supervisor; a replacement Attorney; a replacement Law Clerk; a Revenue
Agent for the Elgin riverboat; and authority to hire permanently the Self-Exclusion Program
Director. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that those requests are pending.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff’s request for outside Administrative Law
Judges, outside of the Emerald case, is still pending.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff did receive approval to retain the two expert
witnesses in the Emerald case, as well as Judge Abner Mikva.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is seeking approval for outside legal counsel
for general matters, and five contractual investigators that would be selected through a RFP
process.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has been working on an independence budget
and what it would take to adequately staff the Gaming Board. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that Staff has presented those proposals to the House Appropriations
Committee.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff provided legislative tours at Harrah’s Joliet,
and will schedule additional tours in the downstate area sometime in June or July.
Board Policy Items
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the language to allow Casino Rock Island to
relocate off of the Mississippi River and to commence its construction project passed the
House and is now pending before the Senate.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the Board’s current legislation, House Bill 1921, is
sitting in the Rules Committee and it does provide for the Board’s independence. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that a request has been made for Staff to appear before the
Appropriations Committee to discuss the dollar amount and the staffing allowance that
would be required for the Board to be independent and fully staffed. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that Staff recommended that the riverboat agents move from two 10-hour
shifts to three eight-hour shifts so the riverboats are staffed on an ongoing basis. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff has also asked for increments of staffing with the
Internal Control Unit.
Chairman Jaffe stated that when it comes to the budget, it is not only “bare bones,” but the
Board is working on the “marrow.” Chairman Jaffe stated that when it comes to the Lottery,
the Lottery’s budget is 10% of the revenue that they bring in. Chairman Jaffe stated that
racetrack’s budget is somewhere between 25% and 50% of the revenues that they bring in.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Gaming Board’s budget is 2% of the revenue that the casinos
bring in. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board is trying to raise that amount to somewhere
between 4% and 5% . Chairman Jaffe stated that if the legislature refuses to raise the
3

 Gaming Board’s budget in that meager amount of money, it’s really an indication that they
are not interested in “putting their money where their mouth is,” because they have said one
thing and now it’s time for them to act.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff received a legislative inquiry with regards to
racinos and the expansion of gaming positions at the riverboats. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that with regard to the expansion of gaming positions, Staff indicated that
they do not view it as expansion, and it is something that could be accommodated, but may
need some additional staff to assist with it. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that in
terms of racinos, Staff has identified that it would be a massive undertaking because it is
essentially setting up new casinos. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that because it
would be setting up new casinos, Staff would have to conduct licensee investigations of the
entity and all of the individuals who are employed, and write the Minimum Internal Controls.
Owner Licensee Items
Grand Victoria Casino - License Renewal – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of
Grand Victoria Casino to request initial consideration for license renewal. Dan Azark,
Chairman of Hyatt Gaming Management, and Member of the Executive Committee of Elgin
Riverboat, was present to discuss his role as Chairman of Hyatt Gaming Management. Mr.
Azark stated that as part of the MGM/Mandalay merger, Hyatt Gaming Management agreed
to become a manager of the joint venture. Mr. Azark stated that Hyatt Gaming Management
would continue to work closely with Grand Victoria Casino to make sure that the casino
reflects the highest standards of the Gaming Board.
Peter Liguori, President, Hyatt Gaming Management, and Manager Joint Venture Partner of
Grand Victoria Casino was present to discuss Hyatt Gaming Management and its role with
Grand Victoria Casino. Mr. Liguori stated that Hyatt Gaming has recently submitted the
necessary application and supporting documents, which are currently under review by the
Illinois Gaming Board’s Staff for approval to enable Hyatt Gaming to act as an additional
resource and support for Grand Victoria.
Randy Roberts, General Manager, Grand Victoria Casino, outlined for the Board how Grand
Victoria has been beneficial to the City of Elgin and the State of Illinois. Mr. Roberts stated
that since 1994 Grand Victoria has paid nearly $1.1 billion dollars in taxes to the State of
Illinois, $242 million dollars to the City of Elgin, and $75 million dollars to Kane County.
Mr. Roberts discussed Grand Victoria’s use of Illinois and minority vendors.
Mr. Roberts discussed Grand Victoria’s commitment to its staff, the percentage of minority
employees, and employee benefits. Mr. Roberts stated that Grand Victoria’s success is tied
to the quality of its staff.
Mr. Roberts stated that Grand Victoria is committed to self-support programs to help
individuals with gambling problems. Mr. Roberts stated that 722 patrons have self-excluded
4

 under it’s self-exclusion plan, and 316 patrons have self-excluded under the Illinois Gaming
Board’s Self-Exclusion Program. Mr. Roberts stated that Grand Victoria has been working
with Gaming Board staff to consolidate the two programs.
Mr. Roberts discussed charitable donations made by Grand Victoria Casino. Mr. Roberts
discussed the Grand Victoria Foundation, which is funded by the casino. Mr. Roberts stated
that, since its inception, the Foundation has awarded 800 grants totaling over $45 million
dollars.
Bob Beeter, Interim Chief of Police, Elgin Police Department, was present to provide the
Board with statistics regarding crime in Elgin as it relates to Grand Victoria. Mr. Beeter
stated that the crime rate is non-existent compared to the amount of people that patronize the
casino.
Ed Schock, Mayor, City of Elgin, was present to express the City of Elgin’s support for the
license renewal of Grand Victoria Casino and the positive impact that riverboat gaming has
had on the City of Elgin.
Member Gardner inquired about the ethnic makeup of the community. Mayor Schock stated
that the City of Elgin is 53% white, about 35% Hispanic, 7% African American.
Member Peterlin asked how involved is the City of Elgin as it relates to Grand Victoria’s
plan for gambling addiction. Mayor Schock stated that the City of Elgin was the first local
community to commit local dollars to treat gambling problems. Mayor Schock stated that
the City has a social agency, that Grand Victoria has a contract with that social agency, and
that it uses the City’s local share of riverboat dollars to provide gambling addiction services.
Member Gardner asked how the Mayor feels about the Grand Victoria Foundation. Mayor
Schock stated that he feels that the Foundation has done a tremendous job not just for the
City of Elgin but for the surrounding areas.
Member Peterlin stated that it is good to see the positive affects that Grand Victoria has had
on the community. Member Peterlin stated that as the legislature considers potential
expansion or new positions he hopes that there would be a way that new monies could be
redirected to other communities throughout Illinois.
Mr. Roberts closed by saying that Grand Victoria is very proud of its accomplishments and
looks forward to continuing its good working relationship with the Board, with the host
community of Elgin, and providing a quality and safe experience for its patrons.
Member Gardner requested that Grand Victoria analyzes its employee base and compare it to
the community as it relates to the ethnic makeup. Member Gardner requested that Grand
Victoria provide more information regarding the Foundation and the issue of building an
endowment as opposed to the current donations structure. Member Gardner asked if Grand
Victoria ever considered adding independent directors to the Foundation. Member Gardner
5

 stated that Grand Victoria indicated that two thirds of its supplies comes from other vendors,
Member Gardner inquired who sells the other third. Member Gardner inquired why Grand
Victoria’s Self-Exclusion list is bigger than the Board’s Self-Exclusion list. Member Gardner
requested that Grand Victoria consider the above questions before Grand Victoria returns
before the Board for final action.
Member Winkler requested that Grand Victoria address his concerns at the next meeting
regarding the number of minorities who are at the bottom of the economic ladder at the
casino. Member Winkler stated that the City of Elgin has a large base of Latinos, African
Americans and other minorities who are not represented at the highest level of management.
Member Winkler requested that Grand Victoria address his concerns at the next meeting
regarding the outside Directors for the Foundation. Member Winkler stated that the close
collusion between the management of the casino and the management of the Foundation
seems to be a detriment in the way that grants are considered.
Member Peterlin requested that Grand Victoria address his concerns at the next meeting
regarding Grand Victoria Casino working with community colleges to support the idea of
educational opportunities.
Member Peterlin requested that Grand Victoria address his concerns at the next meeting
regarding any efforts that Grand Victoria has made thus far relating to patrons who owe child
support.
Member Gardner commended Grand Victoria on its tuition reimbursement program.
Member Gardner inquired if there is a way that the money could be provided up front to
facilitate employees pursuing educational opportunities.
Emerald Casino – Request to Waive Two-Meeting Rule and Request to Amend 8/20/02
Credit Agrement – John McMahon was present on behalf of Emerald Casino seeking the
Board’s consideration to amend Emerald’s existing credit agreement and to waive the TwoMeeting Rule. Mr. McMahon stated that Emerald has an existing credit agreement that was
entered into on August 20, 2002. Mr. McMahon stated that the agreement was for $5 million
dollars in conjunction with Emerald’s bankruptcy involuntary petition. Mr. McMahon stated
that the money is exhausted and Emerald is looking to increase the credit facility by $1.5
million dollars to facilitate the defense of the ALJ matter that the Board has reinitiated
against the company.
Member Winkler inquired how the money would be spent. Mr. McMahon responded that the
money would be spent on a retainer for counsel, as well as fees and expenses for expert
witnesses and consultants in conjunction with the hearing.
Member Winkler asked if the money would be spent on public relations, and if so how much.
Mr. McMahon responded that it would be spent on public relations and that it’s all-inclusive.

6

 Member Peterlin asked if Emerald has approval from the bankruptcy court. Mr. McMahon
responded that the issue is on the Bankruptcy Court’s agenda for Thursday, May 26, 2005 at
10:00 A.M.
Member Gardner asked why Emerald wants the Two-Meeting Rule waived. Mr. McMahon
stated that Emerald’s counsel would like to be paid a retainer because the hearing starts May
25, 2005.
Member Winkler asked if $1,500,000 dollars would be spent on public relations. Mr.
McMahon stated that it would not be. Mr. McMahon stated that the amendment is for $1.5
million dollars. Member Winkler asked how much of that is to be spent on public relations.
Mr. McMahon stated that $1,000,000 is for a retainer to Emerald’s attorney. Mr. McMahon
stated that the million dollars covers the defense cost for the ALJ matter and public relations,
as it is an all encompassing retainer. Mr. McMahon stated that the half of million dollars is
available in the event that Emerald needs to pay expert witnesses, third party consultants, and
outside parties.
Member Winkler asked if it’s possible to use the public relations money to hire someone to
attack the Illinois Gaming Board for its position on the hearing. Mr. McMahon stated that
the credit agreement states that Emerald will use the funds to defend the ALJ matter. Mr.
McMahon stated that the funds are very specific for the defense of that hearing. Mr.
McMahon stated that how Mr. Clifford spends the funds is part of the overall defense
strategy.
Member Winkler inquired if the defense strategy could include attacking the Board’s
position in the media. Mr. McMahon stated that he is not an attorney and does not pretend to
understand the defense strategy, but if the Board is surmising that it could be the case, he has
no comment.
Chairman Jaffe asked what the rush was and why Emerald wants the Board to waive the
Two-Meeting Rule. Mr. McMahon stated that Emerald’s attorney is waiting for payment.
Mr. McMahon stated that Emerald arranged for payment not to be released until it was
approved by the Gaming Board and the Bankruptcy Court.
Chairman Jaffe asked how the other attorneys on the case are being paid. Mr. McMahon
stated that the other attorneys were replaced by Mr. Clifford.
Mr. Ostrowski inquired if Kirkland and Ellis submitted a formal withdrawal. Mr. McMahon
responded that he is not sure. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that it was her
understanding that Emerald would be using Robert Clifford for the ALJ matter, and Kirkland
and Ellis for the bankruptcy matter.
Chairman Jaffe asked if Emerald owes Kirkland and Ellis money. Mr. McMahon stated that
Emerald does. Chairman Jaffe asked why it isn’t important to pay them. Mr. McMahon
stated that Kirkland and Ellis are covered under the bankruptcy plan and they are an
7

 administrative expense under that plan. Mr. McMahon stated that he is sorry for the
confusion and he will make sure that Kirkland files an official document to withdraw as
counsel.
Member Gardner moved that the Board not waive the two-meeting rule required by
Board Rule 3000.105(e) to permit Emerald Casino, Inc. to present to the Board its
request to amend the 8-20-2002 Credit Agreement. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Harrah’s Metropolis – License Renewal – Mike Crider, General Manager, Tom Thanas,
General Counsel, and Jill Knowles, Director of Human Resources, were present on behalf of
Harrah’s Metropolis seeking license renewal.
Mr. Crider provided the Board with information that the Board requested at the April 16,
2005 meeting.
Ms. Knowles discussed the programs that Harrah’s offers to minority employees and the
ethnic makeup of employees from the counties surrounding the City of Metropolis.
Member Winkler stated that he is encouraged that Harrah’s is offering the training and
tutoring programs to help ethnic minority employees move up the management level.
Mr. Crider discussed the computer-based identification system that Harrah’s plans to
implement to detect underage patrons.
Harrah’s Metropolis, Gregory L. Yates, Internal Auditor – Level One –
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Gregory L. Yates as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Supplier Licensee Items
U.S. Playing Card – License Renewal
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license of United States Playing Card Company for a
term of 4 years. Further, the Board designated and approved the following positions,
persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1. Chief Executive Officer;
2. President;
3. Chief Operating Officer;
8

 4. Gregory S. Simko;
5. USPC Holding, Inc.; and
6. Bicycle Holdings, Inc.
Further, the Board designated Jason R. Lockwood and Jardon Corporation Inc. as
Key Persons. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

• Western Money Systems – Approval of Initial License
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board approve the Initial Supplier’s license of Western Money Systems for a term
of 1 year. Further, the Board designated and approved the following positions,
persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Bernard W. Boyle; and
Kathleen M. Boyle.

Further, Western Money Systems will need administrator approval to supply the
following kiosk devices to Illinois licensees:
1. TicketXchange/CasinoXchange (TXC/CXC);
2. DollarXchange (DXC); and
3. PointXchange (PXC).
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve 33 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 76 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 4:10 P.M., Member Gardner moved to adjourn. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 