MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
SEPTEMBER 8, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on September 8, 1998 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Terry A. Scrogum and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack,
other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Scrogum moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Issues concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:43 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed
sessions of the July 21, 1998 regular meeting and the August 11, 1998 special
meeting. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

 Administrator’s Report
The Administrator reported that in addition to retaining Nick Wilke and The Bronner
Group as financial consultants, Theodore “Ted” Thompson was recommended for a
contract. Mr. Thompson responded to a reissued RFP seeking additional prospective
advisors. Mr. Thompson’s time will be shared with Nick Wilke serving the Board on
evaluation of specific financial transactions.
In response to the agency’s initial issuance of an RFP for outside legal counsel a contract
was awarded to Lionel Gross, a retired partner of Altheimer and Gray, for a limited scope
of work. The RFP has been reissued. A number of law firms in the Chicagoland area
have been sent a notice of availability of the solicitation document.
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly reports for July and August:
Adjusted Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit
Issuance; and Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported that Empress Entertainment, Inc. has signed an
agreement in principal to be merged with Horseshoe Gaming Company. The transaction
is subject to the approval of the Illinois Gaming Board and Indiana Gaming Commission.
Chairman Johnson commented on the monthly reports. He asked if the running 12-month
average could be included on the Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations summary report. The
Administrator stated that staff is working on this request.
Owner Licensee Items
ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“AGC”) - Don Malloy, representing AGC, requested
initial consideration of the renewal of AGC’s owner’s license. Mr. Malloy responded to
an issue raised at the 1997 renewal of AGC that involved shareholders of Argosy and that
failure to provide required information to the Board in a timely fashion. Mr. Malloy
reported that the shareholders of Argosy have approved changes in Argosy that address
the Board’s concerns. The proposal was approved by the Argosy shareholders at its last
meeting.
Brenda Bauer, General Manager of AGC, gave an overview of the changes and
improvements AGC has accomplished in the past year.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT (“ERR”) - David Belding, representing ERR, requested
initial consideration of the renewal of ERR’s owner’s license. Mr. Belding talked about
the level of community commitment and the positive impact ERR is having throughout
the Fox Valley, the greater Chicago area and the State of Illinois.

2

 Mr. Belding discussed ERR’s community contribution (profit sharing) commitment. A
total of $26 million was provided to the Kane County Board and the Grand Victoria
Foundation during calendar year 1997. He outlined the projects, programs and services
that benefited from ERR’s contributions. He also noted that during 1997 ERR spent over
$31 million with Illinois based suppliers, creating additional jobs and economic growth.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Belding to clarify his explanation of ERR’s community
contributions. Mr. Belding responded that 20 percent of ERR’s net profits are set aside
for contributions. One-fourth of the contributions are made to the Kane County Board
and the remaining contributions are made to the Foundation. He further observed that
decisions are made by Kane County and the Foundation concerning the use of these
funds.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Belding if future contributions to the Foundation will
increase. Mr. Belding stated that the contributions will be decreasing as a result of the
increase in the gaming tax rate from 20 percent to 35 percent. ERR’s net operating
income will be reduced due to an additional $25 million or more in state gaming taxes.
ERR estimates that its total contributions will decrease by $5.2 million annually.
Member Vickrey asked what the Foundation does with the funds that are not paid out.
Mr. Belding stated that the funds are invested through a local Chicago based institutional
investor.
CASINO QUEEN, INC. - Bill Roberts, representing Casino Queen, requested initial
consideration of the Casino Queen Hotel project financing. Mr. Robert’s stated that the
preliminary financing documents will be submitted to staff shortly and the final
information should be submitted to staff over the next few weeks.
EMPRESS ENTERTAINMENT, INC. (“Empress”) - Michael Hansen, representing
Empress, requested approval of Tamera Couchman as the Director of Slots.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Tamera L. Couchman as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Empress Casino Joliet. Member Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
DES PLAINES DEVELOPMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (“Harrah’s”) – Jim Renkl,
representing Harrah’s, requested approval of its hotel project. The 12 story, 204 room
hotel, will have a projected capital cost of approximately $29 million. This amount is
being funded by earnings and by capital contributions from both the general and limited
partners.

3

 Tom O’Donnell, General Manager, showed a rendering of the new hotel and its
orientation in relation to the current pavilion. He described the features of the hotel and
its rooms. He also noted that Harrah’s is working with the city on some minor design
modifications with the exterior of the building. Mr. O’Donnell stated that the targeted
date for ground breaking is scheduled for September 18. Completion of the hotel is
estimated for October 1999.
Member Pyatt asked what the projected room rates will be. Mr. O’Donnell stated the
room rate will be between $77.00 - $85.00 per night.
Member Vickrey asked about a covered walkway and parking for patrons. Mr.
O’Donnell stated that the skywalk is climate controlled and will appear seamless to
patrons. He also described in some detail the proposed parking arrangements.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the development of the hotel project
proposed by Des Plaines Development Corporation as well as the proposed equity
financing associated with this project. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Renkl requested approval of Vincent Stovall as Surveillance Manager and Albert
Sikirdji as Director of Games Operations.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Vincent Stovall and Albert Sikirdji
as Level 1 Occupational Licensees of Des Plaines Development Corporation.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
CHANGE IN OWNER LICENSE RENEWAL DATES - Chairman Johnson stated that at
the August special meeting a motion to change owner renewal dates was tabled. He
stated that the motion is available for consideration at this time.
Administrator Belletire reported that eight licensees responded to the proposed motion in
writing. Seven licensees had no objections. He stated that Hollywood Casino Aurora, if
required by the Board, volunteered to be relicensed this December as well as December
1999 in order to eliminate any ambiguity. Mr. Belletire stated that staff does not feel this
would be necessary. In December the same basic information will be provided in
connection with the renewal of Pratt Management, LP -- HCA’s supplier licensee. The
Administrator further reported that Empress was the only licensee to object to the
proposed change. Empress, through its Chief Counsel, responded that the timing of
moving to June instead of July would not fit their internal priorities.

4

 Member Vickrey moved that the Board further table to the December Board meeting
the motion addressing a change in Owner license renewal dates. The motion failed
for a lack of a second.
Chairman Johnson called the question on the previous (August) motion (attached). The
Board approved the motion by voice vote four to one.
Supplier
ATRONIC
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Rolf W. Klug as a Key Person of
Atronic Casino Technology, Inc. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
SHUFFLE MASTER
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Gary W. Griffin and John A. Rahja as
Key Persons of Shuffle Master, Inc. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTING – Donna More, representing Universal, requested
approval of Jeffrey Gilbert as a Key Person.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Jeffrey L. Gilbert as a Key Person
of Universal Distributing of Nevada, Inc. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Member Browder moved that the Board approve 195 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 408 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 4 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Browder moved that the Board issue disciplinary complaint numbers DC-9819 and DC-98-20 against Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises (“SIRCC”) and
fine them in the amount of $30,000 and $20,000. The complaints involve SIRCC’s
violation of Board rules and failure to comply with its approved Internal Control
System as they pertain to the maintenance and operation of the surveillance
department and its equipment. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Dennis
Whitehead and revoke his license. The complaint pertains to Mr. Whitehead’s

5

 involvement in violating and causing SIRCC and other employees to violate the
Board rules and SIRCC’s approved Internal Control System in the operation of the
surveillance department. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Barbara Anop and suspend her license for 30 days. The complaint involves Ms.
Anop’s inappropriate interference with SIRCC’s surveillance department. Member
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator Belletire thanked the Board for their action with regard to the above
matters. Staff feels that the surveillance function requires the highest level of appropriate
attention from licensees. He observed that the concerns over SIRCC’s surveillance
system should be resolved with these complaint actions and the licensee’s proposed
revisions in surveillance policies and procedures.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Casino
Queen and formally reprimand the licensee. The complaint involves Casino Queen’s
failure to promptly disclose to the Board material information. Member Scrogum
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that having reviewed the staff reports, the Board issue
disciplinary complaints against Kevin Wirfs, Michael Short, Kevin Gregory and
Christopher Gates and revoke their respective occupational licenses. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Board Policy Items
RULES - Mareile’ Cusack stated that JCAR issued a “No Objection” certificate for the rules
approved by the Board for second notice filing in June. Ms. Cusack asked that the Board
adopt the rules as final into law and allow the staff to publish them with the Secretary of
State.

RULES
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve the final publishing and adoption of
the proposed rules submitted to the Board for this September meeting. Member
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Administrator Belletire stated that Mikohn Gaming Company’s acquisition of Progressive
Games, Inc. has been consummated. As of early September, Mikohn Gaming will now do

6

 business directly in Illinois and will take over the leases from what is now a merged
company.

There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:26 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

7

 ATTACHMENT

Member Browder moved that the Board pass the resolution pertaining to a change in
owner renewal dates. Member Pyatt seconded the motion.

8

 