MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
July 12 and 13, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, July 12, 2011 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, July 12, 2011 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler and Joseph Moore. At
9:40 A.M. on Tuesday, July 12, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to
Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to
discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 11:45 A.M.
On Wednesday, July 13, 2011 the meeting reconvened at 11:40 A.M. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph
Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:10 P.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 1:09 P.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe, Members:
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 14, 2011. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of June 29, 2011. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMEENTS

 BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
Member Winkler commented on the annual update report of Hollywood Casino Joliet and
Casino Queen. He stated that he has concerns with diversity levels in upper management at both
casinos. He also stated that he was concerned with the diversity percentages of Casino Queen
which were not reflected in its annual report.
Member Winkler also commended Chairman Jaffe on his statement that he read last month
during open session addressing the issues of the gaming expansion legislation.
Chairman Jaffe thanked Member Winkler for his comments and went on to state that as a Board
it’s the Board’s responsibility to protect the integrity of gaming in Illinois.
Chairman Jaffe went on to state that separate meetings will be held for Riverboat and Video.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
The Administrator stated that approximately 10 years ago the Board issued a disciplinary
complaint against Emerald Casino. Now finally, after the revocation of Emerald’s license, the
temporary gaming license was awarded to Midwest Gaming in Des Plaines, Illinois and the
grand opening will take place on Monday, July 18, 2011.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS ●

Items for Initial Consideration –
●

MGM Mirage – Subsidiary Guarantor Issue

Paul Jenson appeared before the Board.
●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino
– Sherry Lynne Wessel, Director of Human Resources, Level One

Ed Winkofsky appeared before the Board.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Sherry Lynne Wessel as an Occupational Licensee Level
One in the position of Director of Human Resources for Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino, in
Metropolis, Illinois. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. – Rodney Phillipe, Vice President & General
Counsel, Level One

Rodney Phillipe appeared before the Board.

2

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board approve Rodney Phillipe as an Occupational Licensee Level One
in the position of Vice President and General Counsel for Hollywood Casino
Aurora, Inc., in Aurora, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC/Clairvest Group – Approval of
Organizational Structure Change

William Bettman appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that pursuant to Section 3000.230(d)(1), the Board approve the
structural change to Clairvest Group to include the addition of CEP IV
Chicago Holdco, LLC. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Caryn Skurnick -Owner

John Janicik appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved to approve the following individual, who is a “female” as defined
under the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and intends to own interests in
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through High Plaines Gaming,
LLC.
1. Caryn Skurnick.
Member Winkler further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted
Rules to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest
Gaming Holdings, LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming,
LLC consistent with the financing documents previously provided to the
Board. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
John Janicik appeared before the Board.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Tim Drehkoff -Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved to approve the following individual who intends to own interests in
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through High Plaines Gaming,
LLC.
1. Tim Drehkoff.

3

 Member Moore further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted
Rules to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest
Gaming Holdings, LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming,
LLC consistent with the financing documents previously provided to the
Board. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Refinancing of Existing Credit Facilities

Paul Jensen appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to
Section 3000.230(d), (1), (C) of the Adopted Rules, Member Gardner moved that
the Board approve Penn National Gaming, Inc.’s request to amend and
refinance the Company’s current credit facility of $2.725 billion, consisting of
a $750 million revolving credit facility; a $325 million term loan A facility
and a $1.65 billion loan term B facility. Specifically, with a credit facility
totaling $2.15 billion consisting of a $700 million revolving credit facility with
a 5-year maturity; a $700 million term loan A facility with a 5-year maturity;
and a $750 million term loan B facility with a 7-year maturity. Member
Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 273 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 374 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINT AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
●

Patrick Daniel Hendy – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Patrick Daniel Hendy, an
Occupational Licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to
the Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board fine Patrick Daniel Hendy $500. Said
fine not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to
take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
Licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 ●

Beverly Jean Harding – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Beverly Jean Harding, an
Occupational Licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to
the Board.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board fine Beverly Jean Harding $250. Said
fine not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to
take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
Licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Owner
Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Empress Casino Joliet Corporation
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, an Owner Licensee, for its continued use of revoked
EPROMs.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board fine Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet $25,000. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the Owner
Licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Moore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Supplier Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Gaming Partners International USA,
Inc., a Supplier Licensee, for failing to timely file its Annual Submission to the
Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board fine Gaming Partners International
USA, Inc. $5,000. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the Supplier Licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 At 1:35 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 