Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
March 23, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, March 23, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:09 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre and Dee Robinson. Member Thomas Dunn participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its
Regular Meeting of February 22, 2017. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino
– Owner's License Renewal
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the request by Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino to renew its
Owner’s License for a period of four years retroactively to February 2017, expiring
in February 2021, and find the following persons suitable as Key Persons of the
licensee:

















Hamlet Holding, LLC
Caesar's Entertainment Corp.
Caesar's Entertainment Operating Company
Players International, LLC
Players Holding, LLC
Leon Black
David Bonderman
James G. Coulter
Joshua Harris
Marc Rowan
Mark P. Frissora
Gary W. Loveman
John Payne
Timothy Donovan
Thomas Jenkin
Eric Hession

 


Dan Real
Christy Rodriguez

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.


Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino
– Proposed Change to Corporate Form

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the request from Southern
Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino to change
its corporate form to a limited liability company as part of the Reorganization Plan
submitted for the Board's approval by Caesar's Entertainment Corporation, and
waive Board Rule 250 thereby allowing a transfer of the existing license to the new
entity. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.


Casino Queen, Inc. – Rebecca A. Mumma – Chief Financial Officer – Level 1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Rebecca A. Mumma as a Level
One Occupational Licensee in her position as Chief Financial Officer for Casino
Queen, Inc. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals and Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
Member Alejandre moved to find suitable and approve 34 Level 2 Occupational
Licenses and 83 Level 3 Occupational licenses. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of
Jeffrey Anthony Davenport due to a felony conviction; said action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is properly filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board revoke the Occupational License of
Christi Lee Smith for engaging in theft at Hollywood Casino Aurora, and for failing
to disclose her arrest, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of
the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time
frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 Member Robinson moved the Board revoke the Occupational License of Zarsheka
Monae Williams for her conduct at Hollywood Casino Aurora in January 2017 for
which she was terminated, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service
of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that
time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against HC Joliet, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, fining the Licensee $250,000 for violating its internal
controls concerning Craps Fire Bets, said action to take effect 21 days from the date
of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed
within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. Member Dunn voted
NO. The motion passed 3-1.
Member Robinson move to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against HC Aurora, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora, fining the Licensee $250,000 for violating its
internal controls concerning Craps Fire Bets, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly
filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. Member Dunn
voted NO. The motion passed 3-1.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Penn National
Gaming, Inc. as a Key Person for HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet and
HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora, fining it $150,000 for
distributing marketing materials to individuals enrolled in the Board's Self
Exclusion Program, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time
frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. Member Dunn voted NO. The motion
passed 3-1.
Member Robinson moved that the Board adopt the Recommended Decision of the
Administrative Law Judge in regards to DC-14-27, and issue a final order
suspending Elizabeth Capuano's Level 3 Occupational License, retroactively,
commencing on the date of the Board's initial vote to revoke her license and ending
today. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
At 9:32 A.M., Member Alejandre motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the
motion. All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 