MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
JANUARY 13, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, January 12, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday, January 12, 2009 at approximately 9:35 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and Member Sullivan.
Chairman Jaffe participated via telephone. The meeting recessed at 11:20 a.m.
On Tuesday, January 13, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 12:25 p.m. Present were the following
Board Members: Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler and James Sullivan. Chairman
Jaffe participated via telephone.
At 12:25 p.m. on Tuesday, January 13, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:00 p.m. The Board went into
open session at 1:05 p.m.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of December 8, 2008, Special Meeting of December 10, 2008, Special Meeting of
December 12, 2008, Regular Meeting of December 15 & 16, 2008 and the Special Meeting
of December 22, 2008. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of November 25, 2008, its Special Meeting of December 8, 2008 and its Regular

 Meeting of December 15 & 16, 2008. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Item for Initial Consideration –
●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis – License Renewal

General Manager Mike Rich made a power point presentation to the Board.
My name is Mike Rich and I am the Senior Vice President and General Manager of Harrah’s
Metropolis Casino and Hotel
I am here today with several members of my team and my corporate team for our initial
consideration for our four year license renewal
The last few years have been a year of highs and adjustments. In the last half of 2007 the
property set several monthly revenue records only to have to adjust to the lower revenue streams
created by the implementation of the smoking ban in the beginning of 2008.
I am not sure many people realize that the average customer drives 81 miles one way to get to
Metropolis. Additionally, the majority of our revenue is derived from Kentucky and Tennessee.
Our primary competition is from the Tunica market. Kentucky is the number 1 and Tennessee is
the number 3 smoking states per capita in the United States.
However, even with the declines in 2008 we have set several records that I am extremely proud
of.
• The first is our MBE/WBE spend for 2008. We generated 30% growth in our
MBE/WBE spend in 2008 vs. 2007. Additionally we have grown this spend 200% since
2003.
• Minority employment is at an al time high. 70% of our workforce comes from Massac
and McCracken counties. Our minority workforce percentage fro those two counties is
33% greater than the minority make up of the counties themselves
• Our employee workforce generated 8000 volunteer hours in 2008. We are the 3rd
smallest property in the Harrah’s Entertainment brand and yet we generated the highest
volunteer hours in the entire company including large properties like Caesars Palace in
Las Vegas.
• We also had a great year for monetary donations that included a $142,000 grant from the
Harrah’s Foundation for the purchase of the Metropolis Community Center for the city of
Metropolis.
Mayor Bill McDaniel sends his regards and could not make it here today but wanted me to
reiterate the benefit Metropolis has received over the years from the relationship with the casino.
The tax dollars generated by the casino have helped wit the new library, the fire station, the
water treatment plant, and numerous road construction projects.

2

 Additionally, Harrah’s has shown its commitment to the city through the $56 million investment
in the barge in 2001 that included the construction of the Steakhouse, the Buffet, Aces Diner, and
our VIP Lounge. The company then spent $72M in capital for the creation of the 258 room hotel
and 12,000 square foot event center. We have hosted several large entertainment acts in the
event center including the Temptations and Glen Campbell. We believe that our hotel is the
nicest between St. Louis and Nashville and would invite you to host an IGB meeting at our
property at your convenience.
Lastly we understand that a gaming license is a privilege and we understand the responsibilities
that come with that privilege.
Without further ado we will show the video.
Power Point Presentation
Comments:
Member Gardner commented on a job well done.
●
MGM – MGM Mirage’s request to allow Nevada Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary
Guarantor on Certain Debt
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that,
pursuant to section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, to approve MGM’s request for
IGB approval of Nevada Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor of the aggregate
principal amount of $750 Million of MGM’s 13.0% Senior Notes due in 2013, which were
sold by MGM in November, 2008 through private placement and delegate to the
Administrator final approval of such transactions. Member Winkler seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 24 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 82 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Shalonda V. Glenn;
Shawnita N. Lewis;
Andrew V. Skirmont;
Corey C. Hubbard; and

3

 5.

Michael L. Cook

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Eric A. Reardon – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Eric A. Reardon, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a June 22, 2008 arrest.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Eric A. Reardon’s
occupational license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

John J. Beck – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against John J. Beck, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a July 15, 2008 arrest and a September 8, 2008
disposition.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend John J. Beck’s occupational
license for 14 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner commented on the need to suspend people who do not disclose their
arrests. Member Gardner stated that the Board and staff encourage the occupational
licensees to disclose any changes in their personnel records.

●

Bally Gaming, Inc. D/B/A Bally Technologies, a supplier licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Bally Gaming, Inc. d/b/a Bally
Technologies, a supplier licensee, due its failure to identify Michael Gavin Isaacs as
a Key Person of Bally in all of its submissions to the Board since 2006.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board fine Bally Gaming, Inc. d/b/a Bally
Technologies $15,000.00. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the
date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time

4

 period. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ
●

Request for Hearing – Gilbert Lopez
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that Gilbert Lopez’s request for a hearing be denied. He has offered no facts
that establish a prima facie case. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

Chief Counsel Fries stated that the Board’s decision on the 10th license will be issued within a
day or two.
Member Gardner stated that the decision will be posted on the website.
At 1:40 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 