MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
April 16, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 16, 2002 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory Jones and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, and Tobias Barry.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Philip Parenti, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan McDonald, James Wagner, Chief Legal Counsel Mark Ostrowski, Deputy
Chief Legal Counsel Jeannette Tamayo, and other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones convened the April 16, 2002 Regular Meeting at 9:40 A.M. in the 3 rd floor
Board Conference Room. Member Higginbottom moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:35 P.M.

 Chairman Jones announced that Member Mariano became the President and CEO of
Roundy’s, Inc. Chairman Jones stated that because of Member Mariano’s new duties
associated with his new job, he was unable to continue his service on the Gaming Board, so
he tendered his resignation to the Governor. Chairman Jones expressed his appreciation for
Member Mariano’s valuable service to the Board. Chairman Jones stated that Member
Mariano’s keen business insights and thoughtful ideas made him a valuable asset to the
Board and will be sorely missed by the Board. On behalf of the Board, Chairman Jones
wished Member Mariano well in his new endeavor.
Chairman Jones noted that the public agenda for the Board meeting is now more detailed.
Chairman Jones stated that the Board is trying to provide more information on the agenda as
to what is being discussed during the Closed Session of the Board meetings. Chairman Jones
stated that there are still topics that cannot be disclosed on the agenda, but the Board’s intent
is to disclose as much as possible so the public has an idea of what is being discussed.

Administrator’s Report
Administrator Parenti announced that Staff is going to hold a General Managers meeting and
is now in the process of establishing a date. Administrator Parenti stated that the first
General Managers meeting would be conducted differently from the previous General
Managers meetings. Administrator Parenti stated that the first meeting would cover a wide
range of topics including alcohol intake, contingency plans, patron complaints, security
guard training, and criminal history disclosure. Administrator Parenti stated that there would
be two special meetings to follow the first meeting – one will cover the issues concerning
credit and self-exclusion, and the other meeting would cover issues concerning the “ticket in”
and “ticket out” system and due-diligence.
Public Commentary
Susan S. Gouinlock, Legal Counsel, Illinois Casino Gaming Association, was present to
present to the Board the Illinois Casino Gaming Association’s Annual Report for the year
2001. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the report highlights the many positive benefits delivered by
the casinos last year, and over the last ten years, and provides a ready source of information
about the industry’s on-going socially responsible initiatives. Ms. Gouinlock briefed the
Board with some of the highlights covered in the report. Ms. Gouinlock stated that
patronage generated $555 million in gambling taxes, $447 million of which went to the state.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that on the local level, the casino industry continued to enable its host
communities to improve the quality of life of their citizens. Ms. Gouinlock noted that last
year the city of Joliet was able to spend $8.5 million on its important neighborhood
improvement program; Alton was able to repair old sidewalks with $125,000 of its gambling
tax receipts; and Kane County enjoyed $12 million from the Grand Victoria for projects such
as the preservation of farm lands in that fast developing county. Ms. Gouinlock noted the
charitable and civic causes that received substantial support from Illinois casinos. Ms.
2

 Gouinlock stated that Illinois casinos collectively committed more than $35 million dollars in
cash and in-kind contributions to charitable and civic causes across the state. Ms. Gouinlock
stated that in addition to monetary contributions, casino employees donated their time and
talents to improving their communities and helping those in need. Ms. Gouinlock pointed out
that the public appreciation for high standards maintained by ICGA members is evident by
the thousands of unsolicited letters received by casinos every year.
Joe Wiegand, Executive Director, Family Taxpayers Foundation, was present to discuss
reports on Emerald’s offer to pay the State of Illinois as much as $300 million dollars to
allow a “deal” with MGM. Mr. Wiegand stated that on January 30, 2001, the Board
rightfully revoked the license of Emerald Casino based on evidence by staff that two
proposed Emerald Casino shareholders have close associations with Chicago organized
crime figures. Mr. Wiegand urged the Board to do the right thing and reject any plan to
enrich, compensate, or “make whole” the gamblers who invested in Emerald Casino. Mr.
Wiegand stated that having been revoked, the 10th license belongs to the taxpayers of Illinois
as constituted by the government. Mr. Wiegand stated that the Board is the protector of the
taxpayer’s interest in the license. Mr. Wiegand asked the Board to maximize the license’s
value when the time comes to return the license to the market. Mr. Wiegand asked that the
Board seek maximum return of the license via competitive auction. Mr. Wiegand stated that
the spending problems of the State of Illinois have mistakenly become a factor used to
pressure the Board to get the Rosemont casino deal done. Mr. Wiegand stated that the
spending problems of Illinois government have nothing to do with a lack of revenue being
produced by casino gambling in Illinois. Mr. Wiegand stated that Senate Bill 1017 needs to
be revisited and corrected. Mr. Wiegand stated that the best solution would be Senate Bill
1800, which would require competitive bidding of the licenses as they come up for renewal.
Tom Grey, Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was present
to discuss the proposed settlement. Mr. Grey stated that communities are already lining up to
bid on the 10th license. Mr. Grey posed a question to the Board asking if communities and
companies are biding, how could the Board settle for a $400 million dollar deal. Mr. Grey
stated that Administrator Parenti has named himself as an “aggressive person.” Mr. Grey
stated that Administrator Parenti is aggressive, as well as persistent. Mr. Grey referred to a
newspaper article that quoted Administrator Parenti saying that “neither federal
investigations nor political promises are going to stop the Illinois Gaming Board from
considering all options.” Mr. Grey questioned the “all-options” part of the quote. Mr. Grey
stated that Governor Ryan appoints the Board and the Administrator, and in doing so the
Governor actively intervenes in the regulatory process. Mr. Grey stated that if there are
subpoenas and lawsuits, why would the Board as a regulatory body “let the dust settle.” Mr.
Grey stated that he feels that there is a “push” to make a settlement. Mr. Grey stated that the
political process has been “corrupted,” but he, as well as the citizens of Illinois, have worked
hard so that the regulatory process would not be “corrupted.” Mr. Grey stated that the public
confidence and integrity is going to hinge on what the Board does with the “Emerald casino
deal.” Mr. Grey stated that before he became a minister, he gambled, and when he lost, he
never asked for a fair return on his loss. Mr. Grey stated to the Board that if they make “the
deal” with MGM, every patron that has ever lost on a riverboat in Illinois should be allowed
3

 to speak during public commentary and ask for a return on their losses. Mr. Grey stated that
what’s fair for the customers, should be fair for the owners and the investors.
Gene Collins, National Action Network, was present to express NAN’s concerns regarding
MGM. Mr. Collins provided the Board with information regarding lawsuits against MGM
regarding racial discrimination. Mr. Collins provided the Board with a newspaper article
regarding an African American MGM employee who Mr. Collins claims was wrongfully
fired from his job. Mr. Collins stated that African Americans spend $2 billion dollars a year
in Las Vegas. Mr. Collins stated that of that $2 billion dollars, MGM gets the “lion share.”
Mr. Collins stated that out of the $2 billion dollars, not one nickel is returned to the African
American community. Mr. Collins stated that if the Board approves a settlement between
Emerald and MGM, not one African American would benefit. Mr. Collins stated that there
are no provisions in the settlement that would allow African Americans to participate. Mr.
Collins stated that the only people who would benefit from the deal are corporate people.
Mr. Collins stated that MGM spent over $400 million dollars last year, and out of that only
$754,000 dollars were spent on African American vendors and contractors. Mr. Collins
stated that he feels that the Board should not reward a company such as MGM for doing
what he feels is wrong. Mr. Collins stated that the Board has an obligation to protect the
citizens of Illinois.
Rev. Chester M. Richardson, was present to discuss the proposed settelement between
Emerald Casino and MGM. Rev. Richardson confessed that he is not knowledgeable about
the complexities of the Emerald Casino “fiasco;” however, he is concerned about the
possible solutions that the Board might look at when resolving the Emerald issue,
particularly if it effects his community of interest and the people that he advocates for. Rev.
Richardson urged the Board to consider all of the options that are available to them and not
go blindly into anything without considering all that is presented to them. Rev. Richardson
stated that the investor are personally trembling with fear at the potential loss of their
investment, while the MGM Mirage is excited about the idea of having a major stake in
Illinois without having to face competition. Rev. Richardson stated that their fortune to do
so would be at the misfortune of the investors. Rev. Richardson asked that if in fact the
Board is going to reconsider any proposal from MGM, that the Board should look carefully
at the issues that are facing that corporation in other jurisdictions. Rev. Richardson asked
that if the Board is going to reconsider any proposals from MGM, that the Board should
require MGM to answer to all of the allegations that were mentioned by Mr. Gene Collins,
National Action Network. Rev. Richardson stated that he has a nice rapport with many
members of the MGM Mirage Corporation; however, it does not negate the concerns that
have been raised. Rev. Richardson requested an opportunity to present his concerns
regarding MGM to IGB staff and the Board at a later time so that in the event that the Board
chooses to reconsider any proposal, the Board would be able to determine if MGM merits
further investigation.

4

 Phyllis James, Senior Vice President and Senior Counsel, MGM Mirage Corporation, was
present to express exception to the “campaign of disparagement and distortion” against
MGM by Mr. Gene Collins and his colleagues of the National Action Network. Ms. James
stated that in appearances before the Nevada Gaming Board and the Nevada Gaming
Commission, Mr. Collins, with current and former employees, have charged MGM Mirage
with systematic employment discrimination against African Americans and women, and
failure to do sufficient business with African American and other minority companies. Ms.
James stated that the accusations made by the National Action Network are false. Ms. James
stated that MGM is a law-abiding company in all aspects of business operations, and has had
an exemplary record of corporate citizenship and support of the communities, including the
minority community. Ms. James stated that out of nearly 41,000 employees, 49.98% are
minority and 49.96% are white. Ms. James stated that women comprise 50.75% and men
49.25% of MGM’s workforce. Ms. James noted that in May 2000, MGM Mirage formalized
a voluntary comprehensive and multi-faceted diversity initiative – the first of its kind in the
industry. Ms. James stated that in the area of employment and human resources, MGM is
working to achieve greater minority and female participation in areas of the company, such
as management, through enhanced recruitment, better internal leadership development and
promotion, and company-wide diversity training. Ms. James stated that MGM requires that
general contractor bids for all major new construction and renovation work includes
participation by minority or women-owned businesses. Ms. James stated that MGM is
working to redirect its charitable support to organizations and programs which reflect and
advance its diversity objective. Ms. James provided the Board with MGM’s publication,
“United Through Diversity”, which describes the company’s diversity initiative and presents
MGM’s Annual Diversity Report for 2001. Ms. James asked that the Board not be distracted
by the comments made by the National Action Network. Ms. James stated that in other
gaming jurisdictions, MGM Mirage has earned an excellent reputation as a reputable
licensee, as the leader in the gaming industry, and as a staunch community supporter.
Connie Payton, minority investor in Emerald Casino, was present to discuss Emerald casino.
Ms. Payton, secretary of a committee comprised of the majority of the legally-mandated
minority and female group of Emerald’s shareholders, read a letter, which was written by the
committee and sent to each Board member. The letter urges the Board to reach an equitable
settlement with Emerald Casino. Ms. Payton also commented on the due diligence that the
committee performed when they were advised that Emerald Casino was seeking a buyer.
Ms. Payton noted that Emerald’s statutory minority and female shareholders own only 20%
of Emerald’s outstanding stock and have not had any representation on Emerald’s board of
directors. Ms. Payton stated that the shareholders have never been involved in Emerald’s
management, nor were they involved in the decision to sell Emerald or to whom it would be
sold. Ms. Payton stated that when the shareholders were informed that Emerald had
employed a nationally recognized investment banking firm to conduct a public bidding
process, the shareholders immediately began an extensive due diligence investigation of the
gaming companies that had entered the bidding process. Ms. Payton stated that the
shareholder’s due diligence focused on a variety of factors including financial considerations,
5

 overall reputation in the gaming industry, and reputation with local investors. Ms. Payton
stated that the shareholders were pleased when they were informed that MGM Mirage was
selected as the winner of the public bidding process. Ms. Payton stated that the shareholders
were repeatedly told by a variety of independent sources, including a Las Vegas County
commissioner, that MGM has an excellent management team whose integrity is
irreproachable. Ms. Payton stated that members of the committee spoke with MGM’s local
investors in other jurisdictions to determine what type of relationship they could expect to
have with MGM if it was allowed to purchase Emerald. Ms. Payton stated that the
committee learned that MGM’s local investors in each jurisdiction that was researched
enjoyed an excellent relationship with MGM. Ms. Payton stated that the committee is
pleased with the decision of MGM and feels that no other gaming company would be a better
choice. Ms. Payton stated that the committee looks forward to seeing a settlement between
Emerald and the Gaming Board as soon as possible.
Owner Licensee Items
EMERALD CASINO, INC. – INFORMATIONAL PRESENTATION – Barry Montgomery,
Attorney, was present to request that the Board give thoughtful and serious consideration to
Emerald’s proposal to settle all litigation between Emerald, its shareholders, and the Illinois
Gaming Board. Mr. Montgomery read a proposal on behalf of Emerald Casino and its
shareholders. The proposal included the following: The sale by all Emerald shareholders of
their interests in Emerald to MGM Mirage, subject to the Board’s approval of MGM Mirage
as an owner licensee; Relocation of the licensee to a new home dock located in Rosemont; A
voluntary contribution of $250 million dollars to the State of Illinois General Fund by
Emerald; A personal contribution of $50 million dollars to the State of Illinois General Fund
by Donald and Kevin Flynn; An agreement by Emerald to prohibit anyone who has been
identified as having connections or associations with known members and associates of
organized crime from receiving any payment except reimbursement of any amounts
previously paid for their shares. Mr. Montgomery stated that this settlement proposal
unquestionably benefits the people of the State of Illinois, which is the expressed purpose of
the Riverboat Gambling Act. Mr. Montgomery briefed the Board with the advantages of the
settlement - $300 million dollars paid to the State of Illinois and creation of an estimated
1,500 new jobs for Illinois citizens to name a few. Mr. Montgomery suggested that the
Board look at the alternative to settlement, which is to take the matter all the way through the
judicial process. Mr. Montgomery stated that both sides of a controversy have a legal right
to due process of law. Mr. Montgomery stated that Emerald shareholders have a legal right
to protect their property and to let the judicial process determine whether their property can
legally be taken from them. Mr. Montgomery stated that the Gaming Board has the right to
contest this matter to the end. Mr. Montgomery stated that if the Board takes a look at the
alternative to settlement, it would be obvious as to why settlement in this instance makes
more sense. Mr. Montgomery asked what the State would gain by a so-called “win” if the
Board were successful in “striping” Emerald and its shareholders of its license. Mr.
Montgomery urged the Board to settle the matter.

6

 EMERALD CASINO, INC. – SHAUN GAYLE – KEY PERSON – PRESENTATION –
Shaun Gayle and Attorney John Dougherty were present to discuss the settlement proposal
between Emerald and MGM Mirage. Mr. Gayle stated that he is in complete favor of a
settlement. Mr. Gayle stated that he feels that a settlement proposal would be best for the
minority shareholders as well as the state during this time of economic need; however, he
can’t understand why anyone would support the current structure of the proposal by MGM
and Emerald. Mr. Gayle stated that some of his fellow minority shareholders have been led
to believe that this proposal is the best possible deal. Mr. Gayle stated that it is his belief that
the other minority shareholders have been convinced that this is the only deal, and that they
take this deal or no deal at all and risk losing their entire investment. Mr. Gayle stated that
he feels there is a resolution and a settlement that is fair and equitable, and the proposal by
MGM and Emerald does not reflect that. Mr. Gayle stated that the proposal requires every
Emerald shareholder to sell their shares to MGM, and then the minority shareholders, that
were approved by the Board, could buy their shares back at a higher price. Mr. Gayle stated
that it sounds like if he sells to MGM, he makes a profit, but if he decides to stay, he would
take a loss. Mr. Gayle stated that the proposal would send $300 million dollars to the state
by way of fines or contributions. Mr. Gayle stated that he does not have any issues with the
state making money; however, he does have an issue with the fact that out of the $300
million dollars, $250 million of it would be the responsibility of the company, which
includes the minority shareholders, who have not been accused of any wrongdoing. Mr.
Gayle stated that the proposal, to his knowledge, contains no indication that if a minority
shareholder receives Gaming Board approval, they are guaranteed the opportunity to remain
in the “deal.” Mr. Gayle stated that if there is any one minority shareholder that has helped
facilitate the proposal and is to be compensated, that information should be disclosed to the
Gaming Board and the other minority shareholders. Mr. Gayle stated that he understands that
the other minority shareholders are fearful of losing everything, but he stands to lose a lot as
well. Mr. Gayle stated that there is a “higher cause” that he fear losing, and that is the level
of minority participation, which is a first in the history of Illinois gaming. Mr. Gayle stated
that any gaming company that would like to enter the Chicago market should address the
issues that he has presented to the Board in a manner that is free of ambiguity, and if they
don’t, the Board should not consider that company a viable option.
Owner Licensees
ALTON GAMING COMPANY – REQUEST TO PERMANENTLY JOIN TWO BARGES
AND REQUEST TO WAIVE TWO-MEETING REQUIRMENT – Susan Gouinlock,
Attorney, Rich Laudon, General Manager, and Denny Crank, Facilities Manager, were
present on behalf of Alton Gaming Company for approval to expand the barge on which
gambling is currently being conducted and to waive the Board’s two-meeting requirment.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that prior to the July 1999 legislative amendment that permitted
gambling on barges, Alton Belle used a vessel for gambling and had all of its other facilities
on a barge platform, which consists of four barges. Ms. Gouinlock stated that in December
of 1999, Alton obtained approval from the Board, via Mr. Acosta, former Administrator to
7

 the Gaming Board, to reconfigure the barge facility and to pull out two of the smaller barge
components and replace it with large barge components. Ms. Gouinlock stated that Alton is
seeking approval for the two large barge components to be joined together, making them a
single gaming facility, under the guidelines of the Office of the State Fire Marshall.
Chairman Jones asked that Ms. Gouinlock explain how the two barges are going to be joined.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that the four barges are joined with massive steel cable. Ms.
Gouinlock stated that a navel architect designed the barge platform for Alton, and that it has
been approved by the Office of the State Fire Marshall as a safe barge platform for years.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that it was only in the July 2001 guidelines for adjoining vessels or
barges for gaming purposes that the State Fire Marshall came up with the idea that there
needs to be more rigidity to the platform.
Mr. Crank explained to Chairman Jones, in greater detail, the structure of the two barges.
Chairman Jones asked if the State Fire Marshall has approved the procedures. Mr. Crank
stated that the State Fire Marshall has a copy of the plans, and that a consultant has been in
contact with the Fire Marshall who says that he will approve the plans, but only when the
barge is completed to his satisfaction. Chairman Jones asked when Mr. Crank plans to
undertake the project. Mr. Crank stated that he has the materials on hand and that he could
start the first of next week. Mr. Crank stated that the project would take 6-8 weeks to
complete.
Member Higginbottom asked if the State Fire Marshall has approved the plans subject to
proper construction. Mr. Crank stated that the Fire Marshall said that he will only approve
the project once the welding is complete and in accordance with the plans that he has on his
desk. Mr. Crank stated that he has no reason to believe that his staff and himself would not
comply with the plans.
Member Higginbottom asked what Argosy proposes to do if once the project is complete and
the State Fire Marshal does not approve it. Mr. Crank stated that if the Fire Marshall does
not approve it, he would modify it to the Fire Marshall’s requirements.
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board waive the
requirement of Board Rule 105(e) and permit Alton Gaming Company to present today
for final Board action its request to permanently join two barges to become one barge.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board initially approve Alton Gaming Company’s request to
permanently join two barges.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator under
Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2) final approval of the project subject to Alton Gaming
Company’s periodically, as directed by staff, updating the Board on the progress of the
project and confirming approval of its project from the State Fire Marshal and other

8

 appropriate authorities. Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
BOYD GAMING CORPORATION – REFINANCING OF SENIOR DEBT – Donna More
was present on behalf of Boyd Gaming Corporation to request initial consideration for
refinancing of Boyd’s senior debt. Ms. More stated that Boyd is in the process of looking to
refinance its current credit facility. Ms. More stated that Par-A-Dice is currently a guarantor
of Boyd’s credit facility, and would be a guarantor of the new credit facility. Ms. More stated
that Boyd has submitted the initial term sheets to Staff for review and is in the process of
getting draft documents to Staff, which further details the proposal.
Member Rogal requested that Boyd submit further documents in a sufficient time so that the
Board could review the documents prior to the next meeting without being rushed. Ms. More
stated that she would make sure the documents are submitted in an sufficient amount of time.
Suppliers Licensees
GEORGE C. MATTESON, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL – Jason Fitzhugh, Director of
Sales, was present on behalf of George C. Matteson, Inc. to request license renewal.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that
the Board approve the Supplier’s license of George C. Matteson, Inc. for a term of 4
years expiring 2006.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board certify and approve the following positions,
entity and individuals as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Chief Operating Officer;
Chief Executive Officer;
F & F Holding, Inc.;
Thomas E. Baranowski; and
Curtis L. Fitzhugh.

Member Rogal further moved that the Board authorize George C. Matteson to
manufacture, sell or lease the following products in the State of Illinois:
1. Playing Cards;
2. Table Game Layouts: Baccarat, Mini-baccarat, Blackjack,
Caribbean Draw Poker, Caribbean Stud Poker, Craps, Let
It Ride Poker, Let It Ride Bonus, Multi-Action Blackjack,
Poker, Roulette, Royal Match 21, Single Hand 21, Spanish
21, Three Card Poker, and War.
3. “The Attendant ™” Automatic Hopper Fill System.

9

 Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
WMS GAMING, INC., BRIAN R. GAMACHE, PRESIDENT AND CEO – KEY PERSON
– Joseph Lamendella, Attorney, was present on behalf of Brian R. Gamache to request
approval as Key Person.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve Brian R. Gamache as a Key Person of WMS Gaming,
Inc. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board
approve 122 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 270 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to the following three applicants for Level 2 and Level 3 licenses, each of whom
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1. Pamela K. White;
2. Rhonda L. St. Dennis; and
3. Shadell Archie.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Disciplinary Complaints
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINT OF PDS GAMING CORPORATION - For the
reasons stated by staff, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary
Complaint against PDS Gaming Corporation for its failure to timely file a 4th quarter
2001 supplier report in violation of section 8(e) of the Riverboat Gambling Act.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board impose a fine of $ 1,500.00 on PDS
Gaming Corporation, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

10

 IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF JAMES R. MASON III - Based on a review of
staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against James R. Mason III, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to his
December 27, 1999 felony conviction.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board revoke Mr. Mason’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Barry
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearing/ALJ Report
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF PATRICK J. GIANFORTE - Based on a
thorough review of the record and report of proceedings and evidence before Administrative
Law Judge Shapiro in the Matter of Patrick Gianforte, DC-00-05, Member Rogal moved that
the Board adopt and issue the proposed Final Order, incorporating the Recommended
Decision and Additional Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, as the Board's Final
Administrative Decision in this matter.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to provide a copy
of the Board’s Decision to the parties and the ALJ, and include therein a notice to Mr.
Gianforte of his right to appeal the Board’s Decision to the circuit court within 35 days
from the date said Decision is served. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY ACTION OF ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESOSRT D/B/A
GRAND VICTORIA CASINO, PETE DOMINGUEZ, SOCTT ENSLIN AND EDWARD
CISOWSKI. NO. DC-01-08 - Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board accept the proposed settlement agreements pertaining to Scott
Enslin and delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such agreement.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board authorize legal counsel to present
the settlement agreement to Administrative Law Judge Patricia Holland for disposition
of this matter, as it pertains to the individual petitioner only, in accordance with the
terms of the settlement agreement. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
IN RE THE DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE OF CLAY
HOLLAND, NO. OL-01-01 - Based on a thorough review of the record and report of
proceedings and evidence before Administrative Law Judge Holzman in the Matter of Clay
Holland, GL-01-01, Member Rogal moved that the Board adopt and issue the proposed
final order incorporating the Hearing Officer’s Recommended Decision, Findings of
11

 Fact and Conclusions of Law, as the Board's Final Administrative Decision in this
matter.
Member Rogal further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to provide a copy
of the Board’s Decision to the parties and the ALJ, and include therein a notice to Mr.
Holland of his right to appeal the Board’s Decision to the circuit court within 35 days
from the date said Decision is served. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Member Comments
Member Rogal commented on the Burden of Proof Rule. Member Rogal stated that the
current rule provides that the burden of proof is on the person being disciplined, and that they
have to disprove the charge by clear and convincing evidence. Member Rogal stated that he
feels that the rule is inappropriate. Member Rogal stated that if government is going to take
away someone’s livelihood they need to do so only if they can prove the charge. Member
Rogal stated that he feels that the Board should change the rule. Member Rogal stated that
with the respect to the persons who have been disciplined by the Board, there is no question
that the charge was proven; however, for future disciplinary complaints the rule should be
changed.
At 3:40 P.M. Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (11) and (14) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Higginbottom moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the following items listed under Closed Session on
today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Emerald Casino Inc. –Litigation;
Grand Victoria Casino – Litigation;
Philip N. Crusius v. IGB – Litigation;
Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board adjourned at 5:25 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board
12

 