STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on November 14, 2006
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—320 West Washington Street, Suite 500, Spfld, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the
Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jacalyn J.
Zimmerman, General Counsel; and staff members. Board Member Rex Piper had an excused absence.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 10, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the October 10, 2006 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Hernandez seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2006. He distributed the report to the Board
for review, and the Board examined it. The Executive Director summarized the report's highlights, noting
that during the month, the agency issued three certifications pursuant to representation elections, five
certifications pursuant to majority interest petitions, two certifications of voluntary recognition, and six
certifications pursuant to unit clarification petitions. The agency also received withdrawals in connection
with two representation petitions, and the agency's Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) issued
Recommended Decisions and Orders (RDOs) in three representation cases. The Executive Director also
noted that with regard to unfair labor practice cases, the agency issued ten complaints for hearing and nine
administrative dismissals, one deferral to arbitration, had twenty-six charges withdrawn, and an ALJ
issued an RDO in an unfair labor practice case.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
S-RC-06-037
1.
Village of Hinsdale/Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council

General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that the issue presented concerned
the supervisory status of Village employees in the title of Police Sergeant. The ALJ determined the title
was supervisory within the meaning of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act), and General Counsel
Zimmerman recommended that the Board uphold the ALJ's determination. Member Coli moved to accept
the General Counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
S-RC-06-161
City of Berwyn/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that therein, the ALJ dismissed
objections to an election and upheld the outcome, finding that the use of a management official as an
election observer did not affect employees' free choice. The General Counsel recommended that the
Board adopt the position of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), finding the use of a
management official as an election observer per se adversely affects employees' free choice, but also,

 uphold the ALJ's result. Member Coli moved to accept the General Counsel's recommendation as to
adopting the per se standard, and to reject it as to upholding the ALJ's result, thereby directing the agency
to rerun the election. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
3.
S-CA-04-148/S-CA-04-150/S-CA-05-156
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ChampaignUrbana Public Health District
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the
ALJ's RDO, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board
declined to do so.
4.
S-CA-05-172
Sally Cheatem/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (Department
of Human Services)
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a
Dismissal on September 14, 2006, with an appeal filed. The General Counsel recommended that the
Board uphold the dismissal, explaining that the Executive Director deferred to the arbitrator's finding on
the underlying grievance, that the suspension complained-of by Charging Party was not motivated by her
protected activity. Member Hade moved to accept the General Counsel's recommendation. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Chairman distributed the year-to-date fiscal report, the report on estimated year-end account
balances, and the "actual v. budgeted" year-to-date report, prepared by Fiscal Officer Nicole Hildebrand.
The Chairman and Board members then briefly discussed the agency's fiscal reports. The Chairman
reported regarding legislative matters, but noted that there was nothing thus far, that had any direct impact
on the agency. Fiscal Officer Hildebrand alerted the Board to a new requirement that they submit travel
vouchers within sixty days of the date the expenses were incurred, and General Counsel Zimmerman
forewarned the Board of two pending requests for injunctive relief. Thereafter, the Board discussed
whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 12th day of December, 2006.

2

 