MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JULY 15, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, July 15, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago,
Illinois.
On Tuesday, July 15, 2008 at 9:37 a.m. the following Board Members were present: Members
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and James Sullivan. Chairman Jaffe entered the meeting at
9:50 a.m.
At 9:37 a.m. on Tuesday July 15, 2008, Member Moore called the meeting to order. Pursuant to
Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d)
of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:45 p.m. The Board went
into open session at 1:15 p.m.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of June 17, 2008, the closed session minutes of its Regular Meeting of June 24,
2008 and the open session minutes of its Regular Meeting of June 24, 2008. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
● Section 3000.670 – Remote Access – First Notice Filing
Member Moore moved to authorize staff to submit proposed revisions to section 3000.670 of
the Adopted Rules for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and
approval of the Administrator. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS – no motion
BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS – no motion
ADMINSITRATOR’S COMMENTS – no motion
Administrator Ostrowski reminded everyone about the Special Meeting on July 16, 2008 at 1:00
on the 15th floor of the Thompson Center introducing the investment banker assisting in the
reissuance of the 10th license. The Administrator also stated that the Board updated and released
our updated record retention schedule and stated that it was also published on the web site.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Tom Swoik – Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association

●

Phil Satre, National Center for Responsible Gaming
See Attached for Power Point Presentation

In the context of the Power Point presentation, Mr. Satre noted how the casino worker runs a
greater risk of compulsive gambling. Being around gambling on a consistent basis runs the risk
of the worker acquiring that addiction. Member Gardner referenced the analogy of “does a
bartender drink”. Mr. Satre said that was a good example and is exactly what he is referencing.
Member Gardner then stated that according to the study, the findings showed that the behavior
did level off. Mr. Satre agreed but stated that there was a small group of 10% that continued to
show signs of gambling addiction.
Member Winkler stated that slot machines and video poker machines are diabolical. He went on
to state that it is a known fact that 75% of the profit comes from these machines. Member
Winkler referenced an article that Eliza Stricklin wrote stating that the Industry acts deliberately
to defuse the threat it poses by funding science that casts doubt on research. This is far different
from what the NCRG study finds.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS -

• Item for Initial Consideration
Administrator Ostowski stated that communication was exchanged about digital
surveillance being installed at Harrah’s Metropolis in late 2009. The Board would like
said equipment installed earlier if possible. Mr. Lambert stated that this is a significant
capital investment and that he would discuss this with Harrah’s Corporate Office.

2

 • Harrah’s Joliet – Request approval for Digital Surveillance System & Waiver of the TwoMeeting Rule
Pursuant to section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Sullivan moved to
waive the two-meeting rule required by section 3000.105(e) of the Rules to permit
Harrah’s Joliet to present its request for approval to purchase, through its affiliate,
Harrah’s Operating Company, Inc., surveillance equipment from Global
Surveillance Associates, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Items for Final Action
• Harrah’s Joliet – Request approval for Digital Surveillance System
Member Gardner asked when would the installation of the Digital Surveillance be
complete, Mr. Lambert stated that the system should be complete by late September,
early October, 2008.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
pursuant to section 230(d)(1)(J) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, to approved
Harrah’s Joliet’s request to purchase, through its affiliate, Harrah’s Operating
Company, Inc., surveillance equipment from Global Surveillance Associates, Inc.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
• Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
renew the Supplier’s License held by Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. for a
period of four years, expiring in July, 2012.
Staff further recommends that Gaming Partners International USA, Inc., be authorized
and approved to supply the following products and services to licensed riverboat
casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the requirements of the IGB as listed in the
Adopted Rules:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Dice (Paul-Son, Bud Jones, and TK Brands);
Casino chips (GPI and Bud Jones Brands);
Playing Cards;
Roulette wheels;
Big 6 wheels;
Table layouts for : Blackjack, Baccarat, Big 6, Craps, Roulette,
Pai Gow Poker, Let It Ride, Sic Bo, Poker, Three Card Poker,
Caribbean Stud Poker and Multiple Action Blackjack; and

3

 7.

Gaming Tables.

Furthermore Member Gardner moved to designate the following individuals, entities and
corporations as Key Persons of Gaming Partners International USA, Inc.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Chief Executive Officer (CEO);
Chairman;
Gerard P. Charlier (President, CEO);
Elizabeth Carrette (Chairman);
Gaming Partners International Corporation; and
Holding Wilson S.A.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

• IGT – License Renewal –
Member Gardner referenced Steven Morro’s application. Member Gardner asked for
clarification on Mr. Morro’s employment position; Ms. Levon from IGT stated that Mr.
Morro was in that position for a year, serving as President of the gaming group, there was a
re-organization involving a title change, notice was sent to the IGB, and once the company
was aware of the fact that Mr. Morro had to be licensed to be a key person the application
was then completed and forwarded to the Gaming Board for licensure.
Member Gardner stated that the Board understood that he was employed with the company
for a year and did not submit an application for licensing until February, 2008. He and the
Board now realize where there was confusion.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board renew the Supplier’s license held by IGT for a term of four (4) years expiring
in July 2012.
Furthermore, Member Gardner moved to designate the following individuals, entities and
positions as Key Persons of IGT:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

International Game Technology;
CEO;
President;
Chairman;
Chief Operating Officer;
Thomas J. Matthews; and
Stephen W. Morro.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

4

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 25 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 78 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.

Clyde L. Myles;
Darnale L. Miller; and
Brandon L. Massey.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

• Benjamin Schneider - Occupational Licensee
Based on subsequently learned information Member Winkler moved to rescind the
Disciplinary Complaint against Benjamin Schneider that was authorized for issuance
by the Board on June 24, 2008. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Michael Erwin - Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Michael Erwin, an occupational licensee, for
falsely advising staff that he had filed amended income tax returns for 2002, 2004 and
2005.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Michael Erwin’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Carol M. Bulian-Turney – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Carol M. Bulian-Turney, an occupational
licensee, for copying confidential information and proprietary documents to a thumb
drive that she took home 3 days prior to resigning from Harrah’s Joliet.

5

 Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Carol M. Bulian-Turney’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by role call. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• 22 Par-A-Dice Casino Valet Parking Attendants and Supervisors
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
issue Disciplinary Complaints against the following occupational licensees for their
conduct associated with the theft of valet parking revenue and/or their failure to report
that conduct to the Par-A-Dice Casino and the Gaming Board:
Anthony Huffines;
John Stasz;
Alexis Sumner;
Michael Couri;
Connie Shepherd;
Brigitte Bohling;
August Barr;
Matthew Rooney;
Christine Miller;
Kurt Hoppe;
Christopher Krus;
Talisa McClendon;
Jace Ragon;
Jacob Garrett;
Kristin Shepherd;
Kyle Schertz;
Daniel Foley;
Alex Coulter;
Karrie Bayler;
Brittney Guthrie;
Ryan Pearson; and
Ryan Meier.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke the occupational license held by
each of the individuals named herein. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days
from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS

• Request for Hearing – Levenston Hall
Member Sullivan moved that the Board to enter a Final Board Order finding the
disciplinary action of Levenston Hall, #DC-08-08, to be moot and to set forth therein the
basis for that finding. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADJOURNMENT At 2:10 p.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 