MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 26, 2001
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on March 26, 2001 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory C. Jones and Members
Sterling M. Ryder, Staci Yandle, and Stuart P. Levine.
Also in attendance were: Deputy Administrators Joseph Haughey, Allan S. McDonald, James
W. Wagner, Deputy Chief Legal Counsel Jeannette P. Tamayo, and other members of the
staff. Deputy Administrator Thomas Swoik was present telephonically. Administrator
Acosta was not present for the March 26th Regular meeting, Special Counsel to the Board;
Robert Casey acted in Mr. Acosta’s absence.
Chairman Jones re-convened the March 20, 2001 Regular Meeting at 10:07 A.M. in the 3rd
floor Board Conference Room.

The Board immediately reconvened closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:00 P.M.

Approval of Minutes
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve the following closed session minutes of
the Illinois Gaming Board:

• Closed Session Minutes:
-

Regular Meeting of February 27, 2001

Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jones informed the members of the public that the Board is near the final
stages of the proposed Self-Exclusion Rule. Chairman Jones stated that anyone who has
comments regarding the proposed rule would be given the opportunity to comment to
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel Jeannette Tamayo. Chairman Jones stated that the Board
plans to discuss the proposed rule during April’s regular meeting. Chairman Jones
informed the public that the next regular meeting would be held in East St. Louis at
Casino Queen’s hotel complex. Chairman Jones stated that further details could be
obtained from staff or the Illinois Gaming Board’s website. Chairman Jones stated that
if there are changes regarding the location of the meeting, staff would make every effort
to inform interested parties in suitable time. Chairman Jones announced that the Gaming
Board’s annual report is available for public dissemination. Chairman Jones stated that
the report is available on the web and that hardcopies would be available soon.
Member Ryder asked staff if progress had been made in hiring a Chief Counsel. Robert
Casey stated that staff is making some progress, however, nothing has been resolved as of
yet. Mr. Casey stated that there are no candidates, just suggestions.
Member Ryder asked Ms. Tamayo to provide the status on the request for a legal opinion
from the Attorney General on moving a boat from the Mississippi River to the city limits
of the City of Rock Island. Ms. Tamayo stated that staff has been reassured by the
Attorney General’s office that they are working on a legal opinion, and it has gone
through the first level of approvals. Ms. Tamayo stated that the opinion should be
available by the next meeting.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Acosta was not present for the March 26th meeting. Mr. Robert Casey
served as the acting Administrator in Mr. Acosta’s absence. Mr. Casey announced that
the Administrator wanted to publicly thank Deputy Tom Swoik, and staff members Gene
O’Shea, Kathy Spain, and Julie Stoecker for their efforts and hard work in preparing the
annual report. Mr. Casey addressed all licensees and stated that in the future, as a matter
of policy, licensees will be responsible for securing and submitting all information on
Key personnel. Mr. Casey stated that staff will not accept information regarding a Key
person from anyone other than the licensee.
Public Commentary
Wayne T. Burdick, Chairperson, Outreach Foundation, was present to discuss what the
Outreach Foundation has been doing for persons who have problems with compulsive
gambling. Mr. Burdick thanked the Gaming Board for holding a Compulsive Gambling
meeting last year. Mr. Burdick stated that as a result of the meeting, Governor Ryan has

2

 made funds available for treatment and public awareness for compulsive gamblers. Mr.
Burdick stated that the Outreach Foundation is a recipient of the available funds, which now
makes the foundation partially funded. Mr. Burdick stated that due to the funds, the
Outreach Foundation is able to reach the entire state, including senior centers and schools.
Mr. Burdick stated that the foundation is not for or against gambling, its main interest is
helping problem gamblers. Mr. Burdick stated that the Outreach Foundation is available for
the Board to use as a resource to approach the issue of problem gambling. Mr. Burdick
stated that the foundation makes public appearances to share information and answer all
questions regarding compulsive gambling.
Chairman Jones asked Mr. Burdick his thoughts on the Self-Exclusion Policy. Mr. Burdick
stated that the Outreach Foundation does not have a stand on that issue, however, he
personally feels that roadblocks are essential for anyone who is trying to receive treatment
for compulsive gambling. Mr. Burdick stated that if Self-Exclusion serves as a roadblock for
compulsive gamblers, that’s a great thing.
Member Ryder asked if the grant was issued by the Department of Human Services. Mr.
Burdick stated that the Department of Human Services issued the grant and the University of
Illinois in Springfield controls it.
Member Ryder asked Mr. Burdick if the Outreach Foundation works with the opponents of
legalized gambling who speaks before the Board on a regular basis. Mr. Burdick stated that
the foundation informs callers that they do not take a stand on anything other than helping
people with problem gambling. Mr. Burdick stated that when he receives a call from
someone who is against gambling, the foundation is always more than happy to go out and
explain the purpose of the foundation and pass on information on how problem gamblers can
get help.
Nancy Duel, Northern Illinois Conference, was present on behalf of Rev. Barbara Donica,
Pastor of Grace United Methodist Church, Joliet, Illinois. Ms. Duel presented the Board with
a memo that was prepared by Rev. Donica. Rev. Donica expressed in the memo deep
concern that Empress Casino, Joliet may be donating land to the city of Joliet to build a water
park next to the casino. Rev. Donica feels that a water park in Joliet is an excellent idea,
however, she disagrees with a water park being built next to a gambling facility. In her
memo, Rev. Donica stated that in the State of Illinois gambling has always been separated
from children’s activities. Rev. Donica urged the Board not to allow changes in such an
important precedent.
Ms. Duel stated that her concern is if the motivation of the casino is to provide land for the
city of Joliet to build the water park or if its to draw more visitors to the casino and have a
place for parents to park their children while they gamble. Ms. Duel urged the Board to deny
Empress Casino the opportunity to donate land to the city of Joliet for a water park to be built
next to the casino.

3

 Member Ryder stated that the Board has not received a request from Empress Casino, Joliet
to donate land to the city of Joliet for a water park.
Ms. Duel asked Member Ryder if Empress decides to donate the land, would they have to
seek permission from the Board.
Member Ryder stated that it is possible, however, the Board would not know until they see
the extent of the request and the nature of it.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO QUEEN - WILLIAM PURSELL, INTERNAL AUDIT MANAGER – LEVEL
ONE – Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle
moved that the Board approve William Pursell as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Casino Queen Inc. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
GRAND VICTORIA – EDWARD CISOWSKI, CUSTOMER SAFETY MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Donna More was present on behalf of Edward Cisowski to request approval
as a Level One.

Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle
moved that the Board approve Edward Cisowski as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee
of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Levine seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Suppliers Licensees Items
THE BUD JONES COMPANY – Counsel Laura McCallister - Cox, was present on behalf
of The Bud Jones Company.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Ryder moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license application of The Bud Jones Company for a
restricted term of 1 year, subject to the Board’s approval of its Key Persons. In
renewing this Supplier’s License, the Board orders the following:

1.

That The Bud Jones Company shall only sell gaming equipment and
supplies previously approved by the Board and/or Administrator to
Illinois licensees until such time as the Board enters an Order or
otherwise permits The Bud Jones Company to sell other gaming
equipment and supplies to Illinois licensees; and

2.

That The Bud Jones Company shall cooperate fully and timely with the
Board’s continuing investigation.
4

 Member Ryder further moved that based on the staff’s recommendation the Board certify
the following positions and individuals as Key Persons of the licensee:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Chief Operating Officer
Chief Executive Officer
Francois G. Carette
Gerald P. Charlier
Holding Wilson, Inc.
Etablissements Bourgogne et Grasset

Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
SILICON GAMING COMPANY – ILLINOIS, INC. – Attorney Donna More was present
on behalf of Silicon Gaming Company.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license application of Silicon Gaming Company –Illinois
for a restricted term of 1 year, subject to the Board’s approval of its Key Persons. In
renewing this Supplier’s License, the Board orders the following:

1.

Silicon-Gaming shall continue to be prohibited from selling any
new non-alterable storage media gaming devices, as previously
directed by the Administrator, until a rule authorizing such
gaming devices is adopted by the Board.

Member Levin further moved that, based on the staff’s recommendation the Board certify
the following positions and individuals as Key Persons of the licensee:

1.
2.
3.

Chief Executive Officer
Chief Operating Officer
Sarah Beth Brown

Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
WMS GAMING, INC. – Brian Gamache, President and CEO, Orrin Edidin, Executive Vice
President and General Counsel, Alissa Makower, Vice President of Viacom, and Donna
More, Attorney, were present on behalf of WMS Gaming, Inc. Mr. Gamache thanked the
members of the Board and staff for conducting a very through review of WMS with dignity
and professionalism. Mr. Gamache stated that WMS is one of the world’s largest
manufactures of gaming devices and video lottery terminals. Mr. Gamache stated that he
looks forward to members of the Board and staff touring WMS’s new state of the art building
in Waukegan, Illinois where over 350 people are employed. Mr. Gamache stated that WMS

5

 has maintained its facilities in Chicago which are currently undergoing a $7million dollar
renovation into a state of the art engineering campus capable of accommodating over 300
engineers and game designers. Mr. Gamache assured the Board that WMS is constantly
vigilant in its compliance efforts. Mr. Edidin stated that WMS is proud of it regulatory
program. Mr. Edidin stated that the program was invented to respond to incidents or
concerns and to ensure that they are mediated and monitored closely. Mr. Edidin stated that
over the past few weeks, WMS has met with Gaming Board staff to discuss various matters
that were raised during their renewal investigation. Mr. Edidin stated that WMS appreciates
the concerns raised by staff and has taken steps to specifically address each concern and to
further assure compliance with all regulations. Mr. Edidin stated that with regards to
comparisons of WMS’ quarterly suppliers report and their sales and use tax returns, WMS
has adopted written procedures to ensure reconciliation between the two reports on a timely
basis. Mr. Edidin stated that WMS is committed to hiring a tax professional with the
experience and expertise necessary to assist WMS. Ms. Makower apologized to the Board
on behalf of Mr. Sumner Redstone for any inconveniences caused by the delays in filing Mr.
Redstone’s Illinois Gaming Board application. Ms. Makower stated that the delay was
caused by a number of isolated and unusual events and that WMS is implementing
safeguards against any such delays occurring in the future.
Attorney Donna More asked the Board if under the new policy, would the information on
Mr. Sumner Redstone and National Amusement, Inc. be permissible since much of the
information was completed by the individuals as opposed to WMS. Chief Legal Counsel
Jeannette Tamayo stated that the rule is clear that the licensee is required to complete and
submit the application. Ms. Tamayo stated that the application would not be accepted
coming directly from a Key Person.
Chairman Jones stated that it’s the Board’s position that the responsibility should be of the
licensee to provide the information to the Board so that there is an avenue to deal with if the
information is not provided.
Member Ryder stated that he’s not sure as to how long Mr. Gamache and Mr. Edidin has
been with WMS, but it was four years ago that the Board had a problem with the sales tax
submissions. Member Ryder stated that it is clearly not something that is intentional; it is an
organizational and managerial problem that WMS has had. Member Ryder stated that he
doesn’t think it will be another four years before WMS is back and appearing before the
Board unless the problem is resolved. Member Ryder stated that he knows the current issue
is different from the problem fours years ago; however, it involves the same areas. Member
Ryder stated that the fact that WMS is an Illinois company makes the matter more
troublesome for him.
Ms. More stated that the Board has heard a commitment from the highest level of
management that they will address all issues concerned by staff and the Board, and that they
are going hire someone internally with expertise in the area of concern. Ms. More stated
that WMS hopes that the next time they appear before the Board, the issues are resolved.

6

 Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license application of WMS Gaming, Inc. for a restricted
term of 1 year, subject to the Board’s approval of its Key Persons. In renewing this
Supplier’s License, the Board orders the following:
1. WMS shall retain immediately an independent accounting
firm approved by the Administrator to audit and develop
sales and use compliance procedures.
2. WMS shall devise and implement within 45 days a plan
approved by the Administrator to ensure that it complies
fully and timely in submitting accurate IGB supplier
quarterly reports;
3. WMS shall devise and implement within 45 days a plan
approved by the Administrator to ensure that it complies
fully and timely with the Illinois Department of Revenue
Sales and Use tax requirements;
4. The Administrator is directed to refer WMS to the
Department of Revenue for an audit of WMS’ Sales and Use
tax; and
5. WMS shall complete and submit in a timely manner all Key
Person applications and annual updates.
Member Yandle further moved that based on the staff’s recommendation the Board
certify the following positions, individual and Business Entity as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chairman
President
Sumner Redstone
National Amusements, Inc.

Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

7

 Occupational Licensees

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve 84 applications for an Occupational License Level 2, and 151
applications for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Levine further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to contact 8
pending applicants for occupational licenses to notify those applicants that staff has
recommended that the Board deny their applications for an occupational license
and provide these applicants with an opportunity to respond.
Member Levine further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue
Notices of Denial to the following 5 applicants for Level 2 and 3 licenses, each of
whom previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and did
not respond or provide additional information to rebut the staff’s recommendation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Nathan Bannister
Latannya M. Beaver
Alfredo Guzman
Philip M. Stofchek
Andrea L. Sutton

Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Disciplinary Complaints
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Ryder moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Javier Salgado and revoke his Level 3
Occupational License for failing to comply with the Act and Board Rules in relation to
his arrest and conviction for arson, a felony offense. Member Yandle seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the
Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Arturo Montano for failure to
provide a prima facie basis for his hearing request and for failure to meet the
requirements of Board Rule 3000.1125 in his hearing request. Member Levine seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle move that the
Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Shauna D. Ross for failure to provide
a prima facie basis for her hearing request and for failure to meet the requirements of
Board Rule 3000.405 in her hearing request. Member Ryder Ryder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

At 2:43 P.M., Member Yandle moved to adjourn. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 