MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
December 15 and 16, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, December 15, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, December 15, 2009 at approximately 10:00 a.m. the following Board Members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and
Jim Sullivan.
At 10:15 a.m. on Tuesday, December 15, 2009, Member Gardner called the
meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s
agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board recessed at 11:15 a.m.
On Wednesday, December 16, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 10:25 a.m. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler,
James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:26 a.m. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 10:45 a.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 9 and 10, 2009. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of November 6, 2009 and its Regular Meeting of November 10, 2009. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 BOARD POLICY ITEMS
●

Mississippi Stud – New Game Request
Pursuant to Board Rule 3000.605, Member Gardner moved that the Board authorize the
game “Mississippi Stud” as an approved game. I further move that the Board
direct the Administrator to include this game and the definition of this game on the
list of Board – approved games and that this game not become authorized for play
at any casino until approved by the Administrator for each owner licensee
requesting authorization to offer this game. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

General Counsel Mike Fries reminded the Board that it needed to address the “gray machine”
issue. Mr. Fries stated that gray machines are licensed coin operated amusement devices that
have been used for gambling purposes. Mr. Fries added that the Board needs to consider how an
applicant’s involvement with gray machines in the past will affect its ability to obtain a license
from the Illinois Gaming Board.
Chairman Jaffe commented on illegal video poker machines that are being played throughout the
State of Illinois. The Chairman stated that these machines are illegal. The Chairman stated that
local governments need to start cracking down on the establishments that are operating these
machines. The use of video poker machines and associated payouts is “illegal” and the Illinois
Gaming Board will address the issue of penalties on the owners of the establishments who are
operating these machines in the near future.
Member Gardner stated that he is in agreement with the Chairman. He stated that this came into
view at the November 16, 2009 meeting and the Board plans to have the action retroactive when
our Rules address the issue. Member Gardner stated that the policy adopted by the Board could
be retroactive to at least December 16, 2009.
Member Winkler commended the staff of the IGB for their hard work regarding video poker.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Items for Final Action
●

Grand Victoria Casino – Corey Sanders, Executive Committee – Key Person

Paul Jensen introduced himself to the Board and apologized for Mr. Sanders not
attending due to a previous commitment.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve Corey Sanders as a Key Person for Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Elgin Grand Victoria Casino Elgin, Illinois in his
position as a member of Grand Victoria Casino’s Executive Committee.

2

 ●

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Daniel Wilson, General Manager – Level One

Ms. More appeared before the Board due to the fact that Mr. Wilson was unable to attend
due to a personal commitment.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board approve Daniel Wilson as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of General Manager for the Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a
Jumer’s Casino & Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM

• Incredible Technologies, Inc. – New Supplier
Ms. Hodgson introduced herself to the Board along with Richard Ditton and James Dore. Ms.
Hodgson spoke briefly as to the background of the company.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that the Board approve Incredible Technologies, Inc., for a supplier’s
license, effective December 16, 2009 for a period of one year, expiring in
December, 2010.
Member Winkler further moved that Incredible Technologies, Inc. be
authorized and approved to manufacture and sell electronic gaming devices
(EGDs) to licensed riverboat casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the
requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Winkler moved to designate
and approve the following positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of
the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Chief Operating Officer;
Elaine A. Hodgson;
Richard A. Ditton, and
James M. Dore.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve 29 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 124
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS ●

Stephen A. Procyk – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Stephen A. Procyk, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in
information to the Board.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board suspend Stephen A. Procyk’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Moore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Bill Johnson, President, Illinois Council on Problem Gambling

Mr. Johnson addressed the Board. He stated that the last time an update was given to the IGB
was 2007. He stated that the Illinois Council on Problem Gambling is developing a plan for
expanded treatment and education for problem gamblers. Minutes of the meetings are sent to the
IGB on a regular basis. The program’s intent is to reach out to the gaming industry to develop a
strategic plan and become the premier agency for problem gamblers.
Member Winkler asked how the Council plans on working with the gaming industry and Mr.
Johnson replied that at the present time there is a meeting scheduled with Tom Swoik who is
Director of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association.
Member Gardner asked Mr. Johnson to tell the Board a little about his background. Mr. Johnson
went on to explain that he has criminal justice credentials, he is presently the Director of the
treatment program, and he is registered with the Illinois Certification Board.
Member Gardner asked if Mr. Johnson is familiar with the SEP and Mr. Johnson replied that he
was familiar with the program.
At 11:15 a.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Moore seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.

4

 Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

