MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
September 22, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 22, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:03 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee
Gould, Hector Alejandre and Member Thomas Dunn participated via telephone.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on August 25, 2015. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
Chairman Tracy congratulated the Administrator for his being named the Regulator of the Year.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that Robert Saviglio will be tabled until the November, 2015
meeting and the Administrator announced that CFO Mark Lewis will be leaving the IGB to
pursue a career in private sector.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino and
Hotel – License Renewal
Member Gould moved to approve the renewal of the Owner’s License of Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino and Hotel for a
period of four years expiring in September 2019. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC- Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, GP, LLC –
Key Person
Member Gould moved to approve Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, GP, LLC as a Key
Person of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC. Member Dunn seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC- Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, L.P. –
Key Person

 Member Gould moved to approve Midwest Gaming Mezzanine, L.P as a Key
Person of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC. Member Dunn seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – Eva Isabella
Holten Boyd Trust U/A/ 8/8/2014
Member Alejandre moved to approve the Eva Isabella Holten Boyd Trust U/A/
8/8/2014’s ownership interest in Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s
Casino & Hotel. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel - Brian A.
Hansberry– Key Person
Member Alejandre moved to table consideration of Brian A. Hansberry as a Key
Person of the Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. until the November 2015 Board
meeting. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel - Jeffrey Taips
– Director, Vice President and Treasurer – Key Person
Member Alejandre moved to find Jeffrey Taips suitable as a Key Person of the
Rock Island Boatworks Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Hollywood Casino Aurora – Robert Savaglio – Chief Financial Officer and Vice
President of Finance - Occupation License Level 1
Member Alejandre moved to table consideration of Robert Savaglio as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee in his position as Chief Financial Officer and Vice
President of Finance at Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approval and Denials)
Approvals & Denials:
Member Gould moved to find suitable and approve 48 level 2 occupational
licenses, and 123 level 3 occupational licenses and authorize the administrator to
issue a notice of denial to Betty Alm. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Requests to Reapply)

2

 Kevin Nicholas Johnson
Member Alejandre moved to deny Kevin Nicholas Johnson’s request to reapply
based on his failure to provide accurate and complete information to Gaming Board
Staff. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Heather Barlow (Occupational licensee)
Member Gould moved to accept the proposed settlement agreement from Heather
Barlow and delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such a settlement
agreement and to authorize legal staff to dismiss the pending administrative action.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Alfredo Quezada (Occupational licensee)
Member Gould moved to revoke the occupational license of Alfredo Quezada, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an
Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule
1125. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

At 9:28 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 