MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
October 27, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, October 27, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:04 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members,
Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 23, 2014. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Harrah’s Metropolis grand opening is scheduled for November 19, 2014.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY •

Suzanne Phillips – ex-Marketing Director of Grand Victoria Casino
Ms. Phillips addressed the Board referencing her license revocation.

•

Melynda Litchfield –
Ms. Litchfield addressed the Board referencing an SEP program for video gaming.

•

Kathy Gilroy –
Ms. Gilroy addressed the Board on two issues: asked that the Illinois Gaming Board to
change the policy referencing requests to speak at Open Session Board meetings and video
licensing at establishments where children are present.

BOARD POLICY ITEM
•

Proposed Addition to Riverboat Gambling Rules: Section 230.5
Member Holewinski moved to add a new section 230.5 to the Board’s rules on
riverboat gambling regarding Contracting Goals for Owner Licensees by
authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary
of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEM
•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Michael K. St. Pierre
– Level One
Member Gould moved to approve Michael K. St. Pierre as a Level One
Occupational Licensee at Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers
Casino in his position as General Manager. Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino – David M. Wolf – Level One
Member Holewinski moved to approve David M. Wolf as a Level One
Occupational Licensee at The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino
in his position as General Manager. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Caesar’s Entertainment Operating Company – Eric A. Hession – Key Person
Member Gould moved to approve Eric A. Hession as a Key Person of Southern
Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino &
Hotel in his position as Senior Vice President of Finance, Treasurer, and
Director of Caesar’s Entertainment Operating Company. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
• Ainsworth Game Technology, Ltd. – License Renewal
Member Holewinski moved to renew the Supplier License of Ainsworth Game
Technology, Ltd., effective October 16, 2014 for a period of four years, expiring
in October 2018, and designate the following as Key Persons: Leonard H.
Ainsworth, Daniel E. Gladstone and Michael F. Dreitzer. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

AGS Illinois, LLLP – David B. Lopez – Key Person
Member Gould moved to approve David B. Lopez as a Key Person of AGS
Illinois, LLLP in his position as President and Chief Executive Officer. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Member Holewinski moved to find suitable and approve 42 level 2 occupational
licenses, and 90 level 3 occupational licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
• Oscar Mendez:
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Oscar Mendez due to his felony conviction, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee
files an Answer within that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Elizabeth Capuano:
Member Holewinski moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Elizabeth Capuano for her conduct in disseminating
misappropriated, confidential information from one casino to another, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Suzanne Phillips:
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
occupational license of Suzanne Phillips for her conduct in failing to inform the
Board that she had been sent misappropriated, confidential information from
another casino, and her additional failures to report information to the Board
regarding marketing activities, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:32 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 