MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
November 6, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Springfield, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Friday, November 6, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held Hilton Springfield, Springfield, Illinois. The Open Session on Video
Gaming started at approximately 9:26 A.M. Present were Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee
Gould, Hector Alejandre, Tom Dunn and Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approved the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 22, 2015. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS – Member Dunn made a statement pertaining to casino
malls.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS The Administrator stated that there were 5,160 locations up and running with a total of 21,676
active VGT’s.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Marilyn Neumeyer – owner of JD's Fire Water, Inc.
Anita Bedell – Illinois Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems
TERMINAL OPERATOR ITEMS: (License Renewals)
Angelle & Green Gaming, LLC
Barcade Gaming, LLC
Dearborn Gaming, LLC
Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal Operator licenses of Angelle & Green
Gaming, LLC, Barcade Gaming, LLC and Dearborn Gaming, LLC
for a period of one year, set to expire in November 2016. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 DSG Amusement, Ltd.
Member Gould moved to rescind the Board’s September 22, 2015 denial of the renewal of
Terminal Operator DSG Amusement, Ltd, and renew its Terminal Operator license
retroactive to April 2015. Member Robinsons seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Member Alejandre moved to approve 61 Terminal Handler Licenses and 2 Technician
Licenses And authorize the Administrator to issue notices of denial to the following
Applicants:
Ronny Lee Clark
Christopher D. House
Christopher D. Schwarz
Kyle M. Hopkins
Dwight J. Morgan
Marco A. Flores
Terrence P. Maloney
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Video Gaming Location License Approvals & Denials
Member Gould moved to approve 130 Video Gaming Location Licenses and authorize the
Administrator to issue notices of denial to the following Applicants:
Pump House of Woodriver Inc.
Sandoval Petro Inc.
The Loaded Buffalo Bar and Grill Inc.
Blue Ridge Club Inc.
Mohawks of Illinois Inc.
Roni L. Myers d/b/a MVP Happy Holler
Pangar Inc.
Sangamo Surf Club
Local 37, Inc. d/b/a Firefighter's Postal Club
Fitz Inn Inc.
Jaw 1812 Inc. d/b/a Jimmy C’s
Dino’s Den, Inc.
The Roost of Fithian, Inc.
Roundhouse Wine Company, LLC
Jose Garza Jr. d/b/a Perla’s
Terry Wray d/b/a Towne Lounge
Ragin CPB Corp.

2

 Big Muddy Pub LLC
Chez Marilyn, Inc.
Donald Bonacorsi d/b/a Don & Penny’s Restaurant & Bar; and
Temple Entertainment, Inc.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion by 4-1 vote. During the
vote, Member Dunn indicated that he is opposed to approving the 130 locations only. Member
Gould then moved to rescind the prior vote, so the Board could vote on 2 separate motions. The
motion to rescind was approved unanimously.
Member Gould moved to approve 130 Video Gaming Location Licenses. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion carried 4-1, with Member Dunn voting against the motion.
Member Gould moved to authorize the Administrator to issue notices of denial to the locations in
the previously read list of applicants. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
DSG Amusements, Ltd.
Member Alejandre reviewed the Request for Hearing and based on the Board’s previous
action of granting DSG Amusements, Ltd. a license, moved to deny the request for hearing
as moot. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
Bella’s Hometown, LLC
Gigi’s Hometown, LLC
Centerville Station, LLC
Graham Enterprises of Central Illinois, LLC
Wortman-Meyer Properties, LLC d/b/a Mach 1 - Danville
Alley-Bi Saloon, Inc.
Central Illinois Gaming Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to deny the requests for hearing from:
Bella’s Hometown, LLC
Gigi’s Hometown, LLC
Centerville Station, LLC
Graham Enterprises of Central Illinois, LLC
Wortman-Meyer Properties, LLC d/b/a Mach 1 - Danville
Alley-Bi Saloon, Inc.
Central Illinois Gaming Inc.
as each applicant has failed to establish a prima facie case for hearing. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote

3

 Yogibapa LLC d/b/a Han-Dee Mart
Member Gould moved to rescind the Board’s September 22, 2015 denial of Yogibapa LLC
and place the applicant back into pending status for further investigation. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

Lisa Frisby Enterprises, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to grant the request for hearing from Lisa Frisby Enterprises,
LLC as it has established a prima facie case for hearing. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Gould moved to grant the request to reapply from Antonio Hudson d/b/a Club Suaveve. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
DSG Amusements, Ltd.
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to fine Terminal Operator DSG
Amusements, Ltd. $15,000 for violations of Board Rules, and to delegate to the
Administrator the authority to execute a settlement agreement in connection with the
disciplinary complaint. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Failed to timely complete a project request - Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Terminal
Operator License of Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC for violating the Board’s Rules,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless an
Answer is properly filed or a $5,000 fine is paid within that timeframe. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Failure to Notify the Board of a Suspension of a Liquor License
Member Dunn moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the license of Wendell’s
Dugout Lounge for allowing video gaming terminal play while its liquor license was
suspended, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint

4

 unless a $1,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Licensed establishments that allowed underage person to play video gaming terminals.
Wing Enterprises Inc.
Tavern on 60, Inc.
Member Gould moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints to revoke the Establishment License
of:
Wing Enterprises Inc. for violating the Video Gaming Act and the Board’s Rules by
allowing persons under 21 years of age to play video gaming terminals, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed
or a fine of $5,000 is paid within that timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
In addition……….
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Establishment
License of Tavern on 60, Inc. for violating the Video Gaming Act and the Board’s Rules by
allowing persons under 21 years of age to play video gaming terminals and failing to
provide notice to the Board, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed or a fine of $10,000 is paid within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Undisclosed Change in Ownership
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Establishment
Licenses of:
Connie Fairbanks d/b/a Outhouse
Los Charros of Carthage, Inc.
Delaney’s 3rd Street Grub & Pub, Inc.
JARMAC of Illinois, LLC
American Legion Clarence V. Scheel Post No. 292 of Mascoutah
R Bar LLC; and
Sportsman’s Tap, Inc.
for failure to disclose changes in ownership to the Board, said actions to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint unless a $2,500.00 fine is paid or an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Di Fi and Family, Inc.
Cermak Beach, Ltd.
Echo Lanes of Morris, LLC

5

 Member Dunn moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the establishment licenses
of:
Di Fi and Family, Inc.;
Cermak Beach, Ltd; and
Echo Lanes of Morris, LLC
for failure to disclose and actively concealing ownership to the Board, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Gregg’s Olde Town Tap Inc.
Member Gould moved to accept the proposed settlement agreement from Gregg’s Olde
Town Tap Inc.; delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such settlement; and
authorize legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative
Law Judge for disposition of this matter. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:03 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 