MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
September 23, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 23, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 10:35 A.M.
Present were Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Lee Gould and Michael Holewinski.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 21, 2014. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 4,517 live locations and 18,317 VGT’s up and
running.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY – Maribeth Vander Weele
Maribeth Vander Weele addressed the Board to thank them and express what a pleasure it was
having a seat on the Board.
BOARD POLICY ITEM –
Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed addressed the Board regarding the Rule change.
Sections 78 (a) (3) and (b) of the Video Gaming Act grant the Board rulemaking authority with
respect to the Video Gaming Act (“Act”). During the September 24 open meeting of the Illinois
Gaming Board, the Board’s legal staff will submit a proposal for an interpretive rulemaking to
clarify the meaning of Section 15 of the Act, as amended by Public Act 98-0031 (Senate Bill
1738), whose provisions became effective on June 24, 2013.
Public Act 98-0031 authorized the vendor of the Central Communications System (CCS) to be
licensed as a manufacturer or distributor. This authorization has made possible the acquisition
by the current CCS vendor, Scientific Games Corp., of two previously licensed manufacturers
and distributors—WMS Gaming Inc. and Bally Gaming Inc.

 To ensure that manufacturers and distributors owned by the CCS vendor did not gain an unfair
competitive advantage, Public Act 98-0031 inserted the following new language into Section 15
of the Video Gaming Act:
The Board shall not permit the development of information or the
use by any licensee of gaming device or individual game
performance data. Nothing in this Act shall inhibit or prohibit the
Board from the use of gaming device or individual game
performance data in its regulatory duties. The Board shall adopt
rules to ensure that all licensees are treated and all licensees act in
a non-discriminatory manner and develop processes and penalties
to enforce those rules.
A question arising under this statutory language is whether the prohibition against the sharing of
gaming device and game performance data applies to internal data acquired by a
licensee. Although such an interpretation arguably conforms with the literal statutory language,
prohibiting a licensee from developing or using information that it acquires about its own
operations appears a far-fetched, indeed absurd, result. The statutory language quoted above is
manifestly intended to prevent manufacturers and distributors owned by the CCS vendor to
obtain proprietary data developed by their competitors, and thereby acquire an unfair advantage
in the marketplace.
As stated by the Illinois Supreme Court in the recent case of People v. Hunter, 986 N.E. 2d 1185,
1189, 369 Ill. Dec. 549, 553 (2013):
The primary objective in construing a statute is to ascertain and
give effect to the intent of the legislature. The most reliable
indicator of legislative intent is the language of the statute given its
plain and ordinary meaning. A court must view the statute as a
whole, construing words and phrases in light of other relevant
statutory provisions and not in isolation. Each word, clause, and
sentence of a statute must be given a reasonable meaning, if
possible, and should not be rendered superfluous. The court may
consider the reason for the law, the problems sought to be
remedied, the purposes to be achieved, and the consequences of
construing the statute one way or another. Also, a court presumes
that the legislature did not intend to create absurd, inconvenient or
unjust results. [Italics added.]
Similarly, the First District Appellate Court in Austin Bank of Chicago v. Barrington Hills, 396
Ill. App. 3d 1, 8-9 (1st Dist 2009) cautioned that:
…[R]eviewing courts should guard against a statutory
interpretation that conflicts with the spirit of a statute. Where “a
literal interpretation of a particular clause would defeat the
[legislature’s] obvious intent, it does not control.” [Citations.]

2

 Illinois courts have recognized that an agency’s construction of a statute which it administers is
entitled to substantial weight and deference, “…[stemming] from the fact that agencies make
informed judgments on the issues based upon their experience and expertise and are also an
informed source for ascertaining the legislature’s intent.” Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago v. Illinois Department of Revenue, 313 Ill. App. 3d 469, 474-75 (1st
Dist. 2000).
Based on its experience and expertise in regulating the CCS vendor and licensed manufacturers
and distributors, as well as its careful reading of the statutory language, the Board’s legal staff
concludes that the provisions of P.A. 98-0031 were never intended to restrict the use or analysis
by licensees of their internal data. Accordingly, staff proposes a clarifying rulemaking to make
this point explicit and eliminate any uncertainties in statutory interpretation.
•

Proposed Addition to Video Gaming Rules: Section 1610
Member Holewinski moved that the Board add a new section 1610 to the Board’s
rules on video gaming regarding Use of Gaming Device or Individual Game
Performance Data by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing
with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
•

VGT Manufacturing, Inc. – Manufacturer & Distributor Licenses
Member Gould moved that the Board renew the Manufacturer & Distributor Licenses
of VGT Manufacturing, Inc., effective September 23, 2014 for a period of one year,
expiring in September 2015. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

PDS Gaming – Illinois, LLC – Distributor License
Member Holewinski moved that the Board renew the Distributor License of PDS
Gaming – Illinois, LLC effective September 23, 2014 for a period of one year,
expiring in September 2015. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS:
•

Bell Gaming LLC
Member Gould moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator license of Bell
Gaming LLC effective September 23, 2014 for a period of one year, expiring in
September 2015. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

GEM - SPV, LLC
Member Holewinski moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator license of
GEM - SPV, LLC effective September 23, 2014 for a period of one year, expiring in

3

 September 2015. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Midwest Amusement & Gaming, Inc.
Member Gould moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator license of
Midwest Amusement & Gaming, Inc. effective September 23, 2014 for a period of
one year, expiring in September 2015. Member Holewinski seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Illinois Gold Rush, Inc.
Member Holewinski moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator license of
Illinois Gold Rush, Inc. retroactive to January 15, 2014 for a period of one year,
expiring in January 2015. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
• Member Gould moved that the Board approve 46 Terminal Handler Licenses.
Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
• Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve 93 Video Gaming Location
Licenses and issue a notice of denial to the following applicants:
o Airline Petroleum Inc.
o VO&J Investments, LLC
o Chana Tap Inc.
o Justin R. Shouse
o Keith Bennett & Connie Bennett
o Leticia Powers
o Tap House Grill Westmont, Inc.
o Don Juan Gillam
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
•

Mt. Carmel Lodge No. 1155, Loyal Order of Moose, Inc.
Member Gould moved that the Board rescind the Board’s August 21, 2014 denial of
the Mt. Carmel Lodge No. 1155 and grant it a license effective September 23, 2014
for a period of one year, expiring in September 2015. Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING & REQUESTS TO REAPPLY:
•

Requests for Hearing
Member Holewinski moved that the Board deny the request for hearing from Rita
Jean Shaw as she failed to establish a prima facie case, and deny the request for

4

 hearing from Mt. Carmel Lodge No. 1155 as moot. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Requests to Reapply
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the requests to reapply from Giovic’s,
Incorporated, Harvey A. Pulliam Post 7537 and AAP Services, Inc. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:


John Mudaro – Terminal Handler
Member Holewinski moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against
John Mudaro for his failure to disclose all material changes in information to the
Board and that the Board revoke his license, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless he files an Answer to the Complaint or
pays a $250 fine within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.



Terry Edwards – Terminal Handler
Member Gould moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Terry
Edwards for his failure to disclose all material changes in information to the Board
and that the Board revoke his license, said action to take effect 21 days from the date
of service of the Complaint, unless he files an Answer to the Complaint or pays a
$500 fine within that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Dream’s Pizzeria, LLC
Member Holewinski moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke
the Video Gaming Establishment License held by Dream’s Pizzeria, LLC due to its
conduct involving illegal gambling, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint unless a $5,000.00 is paid or an Answer is properly filed
within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Four Siblings, LLC
Member Gould moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the
Video Gaming Establishment License held by Four Siblings, LLC due to its failure to
disclose an ownership change to the Board, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint unless a $1,500.00 is paid or an Answer is properly
filed within that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Perigen’s Tavern, Inc.
Member Holewinski moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke
the Video Gaming Establishment License held by Perigen’s Tavern, Inc. due to its

5

 failure to register in accordance with the Gambling Device Act of 1962, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless a $1,500.00 is
paid or an Answer is properly filed within that time period. Member Gould seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Illinois Gaming Investors LLC, Ryan Mortland, David Zerrusen & Greg Sprinkles
Member Gould moved that based on staff’s investigation and in lieu of the Board
taking any regulatory action, to accept the proposed agreement pursuant to which
Illinois Gaming Investors LLC has agreed to pay appropriate administrative costs
incurred by the Board; delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such
agreement; and authorize legal counsel to present the executed agreement to the
Administrative Law Judge and move for dismissal of the complaints issued against
Illinois Gaming Investors LLC, Greg Sprinkles, David Zerrusen, and Ryan Mortland,
in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:55 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 