MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
August 16, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, August 16, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois at 10:10 A.M. Present
were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 19, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT Administrator Ostrowski gave a brief update.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino Des Plaines –
License Renewal
Based on staff's investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board renew the
Owner’s License of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers
Casino Des Plaines for a term of four years, expiring in August 2016, and
designate the positions, persons and entities listed in its licensure letter as Key
Persons of the licensee. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino Des Plaines –
Gary Leff – Owner
Based on staff's investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to approve Gary Leff
as an owner of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino Des
Plaines, who intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC through High Plaines Gaming, LLC. Member Vander Weele further moved
pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to approve the corresponding
redemption and issuance of interests in High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent

 with the financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino Des Plaines –
Michelle Scibetta – Owner
Based on staff's investigation, Member Gould moved to approve Michelle Scibetta
as a beneficiary of the PGCI 2011 Trust, and pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the
Adopted Rules, move to approve the corresponding redemption and issuance of
interests in PG Casino Investment LLC consistent with the financing documents
previously provided to the Board. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino Des Plaines – Jose
Lebron – Owner
Based on staff's investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve Jose Lebron
as an owner of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment d/b/a Rivers Casino Des
Plaines, who intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC through Casino Investors, LLC. Member Holewinski further moved
pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to approve the corresponding
redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings, LLC and the issuance of
interests to Casino Investors, LLC consistent with the financing documents
previously provided to the Board. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Hollywood Casino–Aurora, Inc. – Craig Robinson, Vice President of Finance
and Administration – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Craig Robinson as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position
as Vice President of Finance and Administration for Hollywood Casino –
Aurora, Inc. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Hollywood Casino–Aurora, Inc. – Matthew Rzepka, Vice President of NonGaming Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
Matthew Rzepka as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as Vice
President of Non-Gaming Operations for Hollywood Casino – Aurora, Inc.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 •

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino – Jennifer Hrdlicka, Director of Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve
Jennifer Hrdlicka as an Occupational Licensee Level One in her position as
Director of Finance for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a
Harrah’s Metropolis Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Micro Gaming Technologies, Inc. – Supplier License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Supplier’s License to Micro Gaming Technologies, Inc. for a period of one year,
expiring in August 2013 and designate Mark A. Bryant and the position of
President as Key Persons of the licensee. Further, Member Vander Weele moved
that the Board authorize the licensee to supply custom promotional software to
licensed Illinois casinos. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Licensure of Levels 2 and 3
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board find suitable
and approve 60 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 84
applications for Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Further, Member Gould moved
that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to Kevin D. Blythe. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS
•

In Re: the Disciplinary Action of Nora Almanza – DC-12-14
Pursuant to Section 1155 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Holewinski moved
for the adoption and entry of a Final Board Order adopting the Administrative
Law Judge’s Order on Gaming Board’s Motion for Summary Judgment,
granting the Board’s Motion for Summary Judgment and revoking the
Occupational License held by Nora Almanza. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call.

3

 At 10:30 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 