STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 11, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Michael Coli, Member of the Board;
Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive
Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this
meeting. Member Piper was absent due to injury.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD NOVEMBER 6, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the November 6, 2007 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Hernandez seconded. The Board passed the motion—three in
favor, none against—Member Hade abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from November 1 through November 30, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-06-089
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726/Village of South Holland

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized the background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Clifford's recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-CA-05-058, S-CA-05-126, S-CA-05-142
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Sarah D. Culbertson Hospital
Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
examined the issues presented by the exceptions and cross-exceptions, and recommended that the Board
accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-UC-06-024
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Pleasure
Driveway and Park District of Peoria
Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the parties' exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-05-156
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Illinois Secretary of State
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized the background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-04-066
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case and gave the background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan discussed
the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation.
After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-RD-08-003
Carol McConville/County of LaSalle/LaSalle County State’s Attorney/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees. Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion.
The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-RC-07-038
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 520/Village of Maryville
Chairman Gallagher called the case and reviewed its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
discussed the issues presented by the Village's exceptions and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
8.
Case Nos. S-RC-07-042 and S-RC-07-078
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/State of Illinois, Department of Central
Management Services
Case Nos. S-RC-07-046 and S-RC-07-150
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that at the Board's July 9, 2007 meeting, it determined that the
unit petitioned for by Local 73 was appropriate for the purposes of collective bargaining, as was the
placement sought by AFSCME, and accordingly, directed a representation election on the petitions in Case
Nos. S-RC-07-078 and S-RC-07-150. Acting General Counsel Wells noted that thereafter, on November 8,
2007, AFSCME filed a motion with the Board, seeking that it enter an order pursuant to Supreme Court Rule
308, and on November 14, 2007, Acting General Counsel Brosnan denied the motion. Acting General
Counsel Wells further noted that November 27, 2007, AFSCME filed an appeal of that denial to the Board,
and she discussed Supreme Court Rule 308 and the Board's options. After discussion, Member Coli moved
to uphold the November 14, 2007 denial of AFSCME's motion. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

2

 9.
Case No. S-RC-08-019
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726/Village of Homewood
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on October
25, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board remand the petition for further investigation. Member Coli moved to
accept the acting general counsel's recommendation, but with a limit on the length of the investigation.
Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher sought and was granted leave to discuss the fiscal and legislative reports at the Joint
Panel meeting scheduled for 11:30 a.m.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of January, 2008.

3

 