MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 17, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on February 17, 1998 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrator
Kevin Lockhart, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the
media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Pyatt moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:25 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the January 20, 1998 regular meeting. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
The Chairman noted two additions to the agenda. Under the Owner Licensee section of
the agenda, Empress’ request for a preventive maintenance cruising waiver was
inadvertently left off the agenda and has been added as an item for initial consideration.
Also added is a request by Empress to sell a tangible company asset.
The Chairman reported that he and the Administrator met earlier in the month with
Martha Roberts, Deputy Director of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission.
The Commission announced that it will convene a meeting in Chicago on May 20 and 21,
1998. Chairman Johnson stated that the discussion with Ms. Roberts focused on items
they felt should be included on the Commission’s agenda for its Chicago meeting. The
items suggested for the agenda included: discussion of the tourism and economic
development aspects of Illinois’ law; the fact that Illinois and other midwest jurisdictions
impose geographic and access limits to casino gambling; the role of gaming tax revenues
as a government revenue source; and, an exploration of “Who gambles?” on midwest
riverboat casinos. The Chairman asked the Administrator to confirm the Board’s interest
in these topics with the Commission’s Chairperson, Kay James.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance;
and, Internal Control System changes. The Administrator noted that overall AGR
dropped from 1996 to 1997 by 6.8 percent. AGR from table games dropped by 14.5
percent ($47 million) in 1997, while EGD-AGR fell by only 3.7 percent ($30 million) for
the year.
The Administrator also reported that:
• The Annual Report, due to the Governor on March 1, is being finalized by
Marianne Floriano. Draft copies will be shared with Board members shortly.
• The Patron Survey, conducted in the summer of 1997, will be published in the
Annual Report.
• Board members were given a report compiled by the New Jersey Gaming
Commission which was presented to the National Gaming Study Commission
this past month.
• On February 12, the three member hearing panel met concerning the Casino
Queen contract issues. The panel is expected to file its report within two
weeks.

2

 Owner Licensee Items
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) - Judy Campbell, representing PGC,
requested initial consideration for a waiver under Board rule 3000.260 from the
requirement to license hotel employees. Ms. Campbell reported that certain hotel
employees have no interactions with the casino.
Chairman Johnson noted that Players/SIRCC is requesting the same waiver. Michael
Ficaro, representing SIRCC, stated that Player’s Hotel employees do not interact with the
casino at any level.
EMPRESS CASINO JOLIET - John Costello, representing Empress, requested initial
consideration of a refinancing proposal. He stated that Empress desires to retire $150
million of 10 3/4% notes due 2002. The notes would be replaced with bank debt, new
notes or a combination of both sources. Mr. Costello stated that when the notes are
retired the financial relationship between Empress Hammond and Empress Joliet will be
severed.
Chairman Johnson noted that Empress has two different alternatives being considered and
asked when Empress will make a final decision. Mr. Costello stated that the Empress
board members and shareholders will meet the first week of March to decide which
avenue to take.
Mike Hansen, representing Empress, requested initial consideration to conduct preventive
maintenance and an underwater hull survey. Mr. Hansen stated that Empress is waiting
for the U.S. Coast Guard in Washington D.C. to decide if the Empress I needs to
complete the hull survey.
Mr. Hansen also requested approval for Empress to sell tangible personal property and
requested a waiver of the two meeting rule. The property subject to sale is a Citation
airplane.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule to consider the
request for the sale of an asset submitted by Empress Casino Joliet. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the sale of an asset (an airplane),
owned by Empress. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES (“SIRCC”) - Patrick
Madamba, representing SIRCC and Player’s International, Inc. (“PII”), requested
3

 approval for an $80 million line of credit with the Wells Fargo bank consortium, to
replace its existing line of credit. PII anticipates paying an interest rate of approximately
8.2 percent on this extended line of credit compared to the 11 percent it was paying.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the proposed financing agreement
pursuant to which an $80 million Line of Credit is provided to Players by Wells
Fargo and a consortium of banks. This approval is subject to the Administrator’s
review and approval of the final terms of the Line of Credit agreement. Member
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Michael Ficaro, representing SIRRC and PII, requested renewal of its owner’s license.
Jeanne Moeller, Senior VP of Construction & Development for Players Services, reported
the developments and improvements made to the Metropolis site. Jeff Pfieffer, Vice
President of Marketing for Players International, noted the company’s Metropolis
property has been renamed the “Players Island Casino”. Mr. Pfieffer provided
information on the licensee’s patron base, visitation and revenue volume.
Mr. Pfieffer stated that Players’ growth projections for Metropolis for 1998 suggest
passenger counts will increase by 10 to 15 percent. In response to a question from
Chairman Johnson, Mr. Pfieffer stated that its hold percentage decreased, by 1 percent,
due to a conscious effort to loosen slots.
Member Vickrey complimented Players on its presentation and accomplishments. He
noted that last year Players lacked direction in its marketing program but stated that the
plan Players has implemented appears to be working.
The Administrator recommended renewal of Players owner’s license while noting staff
concerns. The Administrator observed that during the past year, the licensee: (1) had
entered a loan agreement with a subsidiary of its parent company, prior to receiving
approval from the Board; (2) exhibited problems in the management of its surveillance
system; and, (3) made changes in credit practices that substantially increased the amount
of delinquent credit owed the licensee. The Administrator indicated that these operating
issues were still under review by the Board staff and that the licensee was cooperating in
reconciling staff’s concerns.
Chairman Johnson noted that in 1996 and 1997 SIRCC made significant distributions
from the licensee to the parent. He asked SIRCC to comment on the distributions being
made and used to capitalize Player Resources, Inc. (“PRI”) and to discuss where PRI gets
its capitalization. Chairman Johnson stated there has been a draw of distribution out of
the licensee and a working capital loan back through PRI. He asked Mr. Madamba to
explain Players’ strategy as to why significant distributions out of the licensee are then
apparently replaced with the inter-company loan.
4

 Mr. Madamba stated that PRI is capitalized by PII, primarily as a result of external
borrowing. He indicated that the company has a substantial cost of capital. He described
PII’s general polices and practices with regard to attributing the costs of capital to its
operating subsidiaries.
Chairman Johnson asked staff to have the licensee submit a detailed analysis of where
PRI has invested its capital. The Chairman’s interest is to make sure that the capital costs
that are shared among all the entities are properly attributed to the correct entity. He
would like the licensee to address how the capital is deployed to charge interest down to
the operating units and to address where the inter-company interest cost is charged.
The Chairman asked Mr. Madamba to comment on other PII subsidiaries that are or have
made charges to the Illinois licensee. Mr. Madamba stated that one such subsidiary,
Players Entertainment, is a dormant company and has made no charges. He indicated that
Players Services provides corporate and administrative services to each of PII’s operating
subsidiaries. Charges to these subsidiaries are made on a cost allocation basis that has
been approved by Board staff.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. (“SIRCC”) for a period of one year commencing in
February, 1998. In renewing this owner’s license the Board orders the following:
1. SIRCC must formalize its inter-company relations and procedures with
regard to loans and distributions and, where necessary, obtain prior Board or
Administrator approval of particular inter company transactions;
2. SIRCC must work with staff to revise its surveillance and reporting
procedures;
3. SIRCC must provide a report to the Board analyzing its credit policies and
review its Internal Control procedures as they relate to these policies.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING COMPANY (“PGC”) - Donald Snyder, President of Boyd
Gaming Corporation, representing PGC, requested renewal of its owner’s license.
Administrator Belletire recommended renewal of PGC’s owner’s license and stated that
PGC has satisfactorily addressed all staff concerns to date.

5

 Chairman Johnson asked if PGC has any capital investments planned for the facility. Ms.
Campbell stated that PGC is in the process of making $3 million in renovations and that
PGC has projected a total of $4 million in capital investments for 1998. She noted that
these improvements are financed from internal resources.
Member Browder moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Par-A-Dice
Casino for a period of one year commencing February, 1998. In renewing the
license the Board orders the following:
1. Par-A-Dice is to review the assumptions underlying its financial projections
for the years 1998, 1999 and 2000; and,
2. Par-A-Dice is to revise its procurement procedures and controls in a manner
which addresses the concerns identified in the staff audit.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
CASINO QUEEN, INC. - John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, requested approval
of Frances A. Moore as EGD Manager.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Frances A. Moore as Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Casino Queen, Inc. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licenses
GDC, INC. - Lloyd Levenson, representing GDC, requested renewal of its supplier’s
license.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve GDC’s application for renewal of its
supplier’s license. This license is issued for a period of four years, expiring
February, 2002. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
PROGRESSIVE GAMES, INC. - Lloyd Levenson, representing GDC, stated that he has
met with staff to discuss its concerns and the licensee has cooperated by producing
information and documentation as requested. Mr. Levenson requested approval for a
restricted one year supplier’s license.
Administrator Belletire stated that PGI has cooperated with staff. He noted that an
agreement has been reached with PGI about changes that need to be made in the policies,

6

 practices and structure of the company. The Administrator recommended a one year
renewal, subject to various contingencies and agreements.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Progressive Games, Inc.’s (“PGI”)
application for renewal of its supplier’s license and issue PGI a restricted one year
license expiring February, 1999. This renewal is subject to and contingent upon
PGI effectuating the changes in its corporate business practices, policies and
structure set forth in its February 17, 1998 correspondence with the Administrator.
I further move that the Board order that PGI not distribute, introduce or market
any new games, services, products or devices in Illinois, except as expressly and
individually approved by the Board; and that PGI not sell or lease additional
Caribbean Stud, 21 Superbucks or automatic shuffle devices in Illinois beyond that
already in place in Illinois, except as expressly authorized by the Administrator.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve 67 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 158 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and
deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level 2. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Browder moved that the Board deny the hearing requests of Dalyan Davis
and Calvin Richardson. The petitioners failed to comply with Board rule 3000.405.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Having reviewed the staff reports, Member Browder moved that the Board reconsider
the applications for licensure submitted by Joseph Danco and Ronald Galster and
issue occupational licenses to both individuals. Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Board Policy Items
LAKE COUNTY RIVERBOAT, L.P. (“LCRLP”) - Representatives of the LCRLP
requested recognition by the Board in order to clarify the reasons that this partnership
filed for an owner’s license on December 30, 1997. Jim Streicker identified himself as
the legal representative of this applicant. He indicated the application was filed in
December, 1997 so that LCRLP could be in operation in 1999. Mr. Streicker stated that
they believe the Riverboat Gambling Act (“Act”), specifically Section 6(d), requires that
an application be on file by January 1, 1998 in order to begin operations in 1999.
Mr. Streicker stated that the investors of LCRLP are aware that there is no license
available and that HP, Inc. is appealing administratively its July, 1997 non-renewal. The
Lake County group is hopeful that a decision is made by the Board to stand by the denial.
Mr. Streicker stated that LCRLP’s revenue projections show that in the first year of
operation LCRLP should generate between $29 million and $61 million in tax revenues.
LCRLP feels if a new riverboat licensee is not in operation in 1999 the people of Illinois
will lose this tax revenue. He asked that the Board begin reviewing LCRLP’s application
before a decision is made in the HP case. He stated that LCRLP is willing to incur the
cost of an investigation even if the license HP holds does not become available.
Mr. Streicker addressed the issue of where a license needs to be located. He discussed his
view of the Board’s authority to relocate a license from the Mississippi River to another
river in Illinois. Mr. Streicker discussed the advisory opinion from the Attorney General
to Senator James “Pate” Phillip. He expressed that the opinion is not binding on the
Board nor any court. Mr. Streicker stated that the factual situation has changed since the
opinion has been written and he feels the Board has the authority to grant a license off of
the Mississippi River under the new circumstances. Mr. Streicker quoted Section 7(e) of
the Act granting authority to the Board to issue a new license and stated that, that section
of the Act implies that after the first ten licenses have been issued, the Board may issue
new licenses in a location off of the Mississippi.
Chairman Johnson asked Chief Counsel Cusack to query the applicant concerning various
matters.
Ms. Cusack asked questions of Mr. Streicker as she referred to correspondence from
LCRLP to the Board dated February 11, 1998 (Attachment A). Ms. Cusack referred to
the second paragraph of Page 2 and asked:
• If it was Mr. Streicker’s contention that Section 10-65 of the Administrative
Procedures Act would not apply in extending HP’s license until the Board has
made a final determination. Mr. Streicker stated that it was LCRLP’s position
that the license does remain in effect until the final order of the Board is issued.
8

 • If Mr. Streicker has had any conversations with either HP or with the Board
which would lead him to the conclusion that this hearing will be completed
shortly. Mr. Streicker responded no.
• If it was Mr. Streicker’s contention that the Board has already made its final
decision in this matter. Mr. Streicker responded no.
• If Mr. Streicker has had any conversations with HP indicating that they don’t
plan on fully pursuing their rights. Mr. Streicker responded no.
• If she (Ms. Cusack) was to conclude that the assumptions Mr. Streicker made
in his letter are purely speculative on LCRLP’s part. Mr. Streicker stated yes,
adding that some of the assumptions were based upon his review of the minutes
of prior Board meetings and it is his feeling that the Board will affirm what it
did preliminarily.
• If Mr. Streicker understands that there has to be a full de novo hearing and that
the Board has to review the entire record and the recommendations of the ALJ
before it makes its final determination in the HP matter. Mr. Streicker
responded yes.
Administrator Belletire asked Mr. Streicker if he has any basis to assume that the word
“may” in the phrase “may issue up to 10 licenses”, of Section 7(e) of the Act is intended
as permissive and that, that it is an authority for the Board to exercise. Mr. Streicker
stated that he interprets “may” to mean may and that may does not mean shall.
The Chairman stated that he feels LCRLP is putting the Board in a position that may give
the appearance that the Board is prejudiced with regard to HP, Inc. and its de novo
hearing. The Chairman asked Mr. Streicker to respond to the position the Board feels it
has been put in by LCRLP. Mr. Streicker stated that he does not think LCRLP’s filing
prejudices the Board against HP. He stated that LCRLP is asking that the Board proceed
to investigate its application. If it turns out that at the conclusion of the de novo hearing
the Board reverses itself and grants the renewal of HP’s license, than so be it and LCRLP
is out the money.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Streicker if it would be presumptuous for the Board to order
staff to use the limited resources available to investigate its application. Mr. Streicker
stated that he does not believe it presumptuous at all. Mr. Streicker further stated that he
is not able to address the limited resources of the Board and he expects that whatever it
takes to do the investigation that LCRLP will pay the cost.
Ms. Cusack addressed Mr. Glenn Seidenfeld, Chairman & CEO of LCRLP. Ms. Cusack
asked Mr. Seidenfeld if he remembered receiving a letter dated January 14, 1997 from
Mr. Belletire concerning Fox River Limited Partnership’s application. Mr. Seidenfeld
responded yes. Ms. Cusack read the correspondence in its entirety (Attachment B). Mr.

9

 Seidenfeld stated that he filed that letter with LCRLP’s current application. Ms. Cusack
asked Mr. Seidenfeld if he had any reason to believe that there is a license available at
this time. Mr. Seidenfeld stated that there may or may not be a license available but that
the environment is different now than when they received the letter in January, 1997.
Member Pyatt asked Ms. Cusack to explain Section 6(d) of the Act with respect to the
January 1 deadline. Ms. Cusack read from the Act as follows:
“An application shall be filed with the Board on January 1st of the year preceding
any calendar year for which an applicant seeks an owner’s license.”
Ms. Cusack stated that this section of the Act can be interpreted in a variety of ways and
that this agency’s interpretation has been that Section 6 is a limitation on the applicant,
requiring that when they do submit an application they give the Board sufficient time to
review the information submitted in order to act accordingly. This agency has not
interpreted Section 6 as restricting the Board’s ability to award licenses once a full review
of the application has been conducted. Ms. Cusack stated that this agency’s interpretation
of its own rules and its own Act will be given due deference by any reviewing court as
established in such cases as Illinois Consolidated Telephone vs. Illinois Commerce
Commission or Erie vs. The Department of Revenue.
Chairman Johnson clarified that this section allows the Board to promulgate a process to
request proposals at any time and to license at any time if a license ever became available.
The Chairman asked Mr. Streicker for his comments. Mr. Streicker stated that in Section
6(d) (stated above) “shall” means shall and it restricts to a large degree when an owner
can become operational.
Chairman Johnson stated that if the Board ever had a license available it would anticipate
that many people would be interested in potentially seeking that license. He referenced
the January 1997 letter indicating that the Board would likely organize a formal,
competitive process should a license become available. Mr. Streicker stated that if the
Board changed its procedure for applying for an owner’s license LCRLP would modify
its application to the extent it was required.
The Administrator commented that similar letters (see Attachment B) were sent to Mirage
Riverboat of Illinois, Inc., Sahara Resorts and Capital Gaming International, Inc. He also
noted that an applicant’s payments for investigative costs do not directly finance Board
investigations. The monies submitted by an applicant revert to the state Treasury and
cannot be used to pay for staff salaries. Staff costs are fixed by appropriations and,
therefore the Board would incur an opportunity cost if it were to devote staff resources to
licensure investigative activity that the Board is not responsible for now. He further

10

 stated that investigation of an applicant would take away from some other level of activity
and that the Board would not be at liberty to hire staff.
Chairman Johnson stated that he believes that what LCRLP is asking the Board to do
could be interpreted as a prejudicial action against the forthcoming HP, Inc. de novo
hearing and the Board’s responsibilities under the Act to respond to that hearing. The
Chairman urged the Board to deny the request for the above stated reason.
Mr. Streicker stated that it is not the intention of LCRLP to prejudice the Board in any
way and he requested that the Board investigate its application.
Member Pyatt moved that:
WHEREAS Lake County Riverboat, L.P. (“Lake County”) filed an application for
an owner’s license with the Board on December 30, 1997; and,
WHEREAS Lake County submitted a $50,000 fee with its application; and,
WHEREAS under the Riverboat Gambling Act (“Act”) the Board is authorized to
issue up to ten owner’s licenses; and
WHEREAS all ten licenses have been issued and there are no owner’s licenses
available; and
WHEREAS pursuant to Section 5(b)(1) of the Act, the Board must decide all license
applications in a prompt and reasonable manner; and
WHEREAS, in awarding any license that may be available in the future, the Board
is committed to a process that allows for consideration of all relevant factors and
selection from among competing applications;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that without prejudicing the applicant, the
Board denies Lake County’s application for an owner’s license. In denying the
application the Board notes that no judgment has been made regarding the
substantive merits and hereby waives the requirement of Board rule 3000.230(e)(2)
as to this applicant.
I further move that the Board direct the Administrator to refund the $50,000
application fee submitted by Lake County.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Streicker if he would like to make any comments. Mr.
Streicker requested that the Board not deny the application but leave it pending without

11

 action and if and when the Board adopts modified regulations LCRLP will modify its
application.
Chairman Johnson asked Lake County if they would like to withdraw its application. Mr.
Streicker declined.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board direct staff to revise the current owner’s
application form and develop a competitive process to be implemented in the future
for the solicitation of applicants for an owner’s license and the uniform submission
and review of information by each applicant. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
SPECIAL INVESTIGATION REPORT - William O’Connor, outside counsel for the
Board, gave his final report on Gaming Board staff contact with certain applicants or
potential applicants related to the East St. Louis license. Specifically, he reported to the
Board his factual conclusions regarding the Casino Queen licensing matter as they were
raised in Senate Resolution 91. He covered the factual basis for the formulation of the
Casino Queen investor group; the facts relating to the Gaming Board’s role in site
selection; and, a discussion of Board communications with third parties regarding the
licensing process. Mr. O’Connor also summarized his recommendations for Board and
staff communication and procedural guidelines relating to the consideration of new
licensee applications.
Chairman Johnson stated that the Board will be taking Mr. O’Connor’s recommendations
under advisement along with staff analysis of the recommendations. Chairman Johnson
asked Mr. O’Connor to provide a copy of his report to Senator Denny Jacobs.
Administrator Belletire stated that one of Mr. O’Connor’s recommendations has been
implemented by staff. He reported that Ms. Cusack and the Administrator have begun to
keep logs of their conversations with prospective applicants.
Chairman Johnson stated that the April Board meeting has been changed from April 21 to
April 20. (Note: Subsequent to the February 17 meeting, this date has again been
changed, to April 22, 1998.)
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that the
Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:20 p.m.

12

 Respectfully submitted,

Susan 0. Weber
Secretary of the Board

13

