STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 6, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board; Paul S. Besson, Member of the Board; James Q.
Brennwald, Member of the Board; Michael G. Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington Member of
the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 4, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the October 4, 2011 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
reports for the period of time from October 1 to November 30, 2011. He presented the reports and
summarized their highlights. The Board examined the reports and discussed them.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

After a short discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion
to go into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the cases on the agenda, pursuant to
Section 2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2010), as amended. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of
the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Besson seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
1.
Case No. S-UC-08-398
City of East Moline/American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Washington moved to affirm General Counsel Post's
recommendation to uphold Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Wells' Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO) albeit with a requirement that both professional and non-professional employees be polled.
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-11-035
American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Naperville
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Coli made a motion to uphold ALJ Tarver's RDO as
written. Member Washington seconded the motion, the motion passed with four ayes and one nay;
Chairman Zimmerman dissented.
3.
Case No. S-RC-09-182
Illinois Federation of Public Employees, Local 4408/State of Illinois
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-11-205
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/City of Hickory Hills
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Washington moved to uphold the executive director's
dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CB-09-009
PACE South Division/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1028
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Besson moved to uphold General Counsel Post's
recommendation to reverse the executive director's dismissal. Member Brennwald seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this
date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of January, 2012.

2

 