STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 10, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, 7th Floor, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from the Board’s
Springfield office.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 13, 2015

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the January 13, 2015 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-RC-14-009
Local 200, Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO/ County of Cook
(Health and Hospital System)
Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Post to present the issues of the case to the Board. General
Counsel Post stated that on November 7, 2014, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Martin Kehoe issued a Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO) recommending that the positions of Recruitment and Selection Analyst (RSA), at Stroger
Hospital, be added to the existing bargaining unit. He then discussed the exception and response that were filed. After his
presentation, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board adopt the ALJ’s recommended findings that the RSAs
are neither supervisors nor confidential employees, that the representation petition be granted, and that the RSAs be added
to the collective bargaining unit. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to affirm the RDO. Member Anderson seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-13-003
Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241/ Chicago Transit Authority
Chairman Gierut recused himself from the case. General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Katherine C. Vanek
issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The
Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. L-CB-15-016
Ronald Stubbs/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
General Counsel Post called the case, and asked Counsel Kelly Coyle to present and discuss the issues of the case to the
Board. Counsel Coyle stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on December 11, 2014. The charge alleged
that the Respondent violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Act. She then presented the Charging Party’s appeal. After her
presentation, Counsel Coyle recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion,

 Member Anderson moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of March, 2015.

2

 