STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 12, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of
the Board; Michael Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD May 15, 2012

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the May 15, 2012 meeting. Member Brennwald moved
to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked General Counsel Post to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from May 1 to May 31, 2012. He presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case Nos. S-CA-11-120 and S-CA-11-122
Stephanie Birkner and Douglas Birkner/ Village of New Athens
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Owen’s Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) stating that the charge alleged, and the ALJ found,
that the Respondent violated Section 10(a)(1) of the Act when it terminated Charging Parties’ employment for their
exercise of concerted, protective activity. Counsel Kazanjian recommended that the Board accept the ALJ’s RDO.
After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept Counsel Kazanjian’s recommendation. Member Brennwald
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-UC-12-034
Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC/ Secretary of State
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues, stating that the RDO is granted a
unit clarified petition and clarifying that a collective bargaining unit includes the entirety of employees in two job
titles previously petitioned to be included in a collective bargaining unit. General Counsel Post recommended that the
Board affirm the RDO with slight modification. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept General
Counsel Post’s recommendation. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-UC-12-036
Laborers’ International Union of North America, Local 477/ Village of Southern View
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-10-221
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/ Village of Oak Lawn
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on April 17, 2012,
and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal and Charging Party’s
allegation that Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. After review of the appeal General Counsel
Post recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli made a
motion to reverse the Executive Director’s dismissal and issue a complaint for hearing. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-12-072
Peter J. Wagner/ State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on April 18, 2012,
and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal stating that Charging
Party alleged Respondent had violated Sections 10(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the Act. General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the Executive
Director’s dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.

6.

Case No. S-CA-12-088

Susan Gruberman/ St. Clair Township
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on February 2,
2012, and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that
Charging Party alleged Respondent violated Sections 10(a) of the Act. After reviewing the appeal General
Counsel Post recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member
Besson moved to reverse the Executive Director’s dismissal and issue a complaint for hearing. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CB-12-016
Britt Weatherford/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on March 29, 2012,
and an appeal had been filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that Charging
Party alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Act. After reviewing the appeal General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept General Counsel Post’s recommendation. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this date. After a
short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of July, 2012.
2

 