STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on January 8, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board (participated by telephone-conference);
Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the
Board (participated by telephone-conference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members.
John F. Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 11, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the December 11, 2007 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Hade seconded. The Board passed the motion—four in favor, none
against—Member Piper abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from December 1 through December 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-07-020
Am Fed. of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Peoria Housing Authority

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Strizak's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-06-137
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/County of DuPage/Sheriff of DuPage County
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion.
The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-RC-08-018
Troopers Lodge No. 41, Fraternal Order of Police/State of Illinois, Department of Central
Management Services/International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Morris' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case Nos. S-CA-07-163 and S-CA-07-221
Vanessa Ento/PACE Suburban Bus Heritage Division
Chairman Gallagher summarized the cases, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
November 27, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by
the appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion,
Member Hade moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-07-088
Darrell Lynn Miller/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on December
3, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After a short discussion, Member
Piper moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Hernandez seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher observed that the legislature was back in session as of this date, and noted that interim
budget cuts may be a possibility. After a short discussion, the Board questioned whether there was a need for
executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 20th day of February, 2008.

2

 