MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
March 4, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, Friday March 4, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 9:30 A.M.
Present were Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee Gould, Hector Alejandre, Member Dee
Robinson and Member Dunn.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES: Open Session
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of January 28, 2016. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 5,322 locations up and running along with 22,620
live machines. There will be a Terminal Operator's meeting at the WMS facility on April 4,
2016.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Member Dunn moved to amend Sections 690 and 790 of the Board's Rules by authorizing Staff
to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and
approval by the Administrator. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR ITEMS
License Renewals (Retroactive to January 2016)
Illinois Gold Rush, Inc.
Member Robinson moved to renew the Terminal Operator License of Illinois Gold
Rush, Inc. for a term of one year, retroactive to January 2016 expiring in January of
2017. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote
License Renewals (Retroactive to February 2016)

 Member Robinson moved to renew the Terminal Operator licenses for a term of one
year, retroactive to February 2016 expiring in February of 2017.
1. Allied Gaming, LLC
2. American Video Gaming, LLC
3. Awesome Hands Services, LLC
4. Gold Rush Amusements, Inc.
5. Lattner Entertainment Group Illinois, LLC
6. Melody Gaming, LLC
7. Renville Gaming, LLC
8. Skyhigh Gaming, LLC
9. Slot Kings Gaming, LLC
10. Triple 7 Illinois, LLC
11. Vic Entertainment, LLC
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal Operator Licenses of:
 Abraham Gaming, LLC
 Accel Entertainment Gaming, LLC
 Arkadian Gaming, LLC
 Ashiq Gaming, LLC
 B&B Amusement of Illinois, LLC
 Compact Disc Amusements, Limited
 Dragonfly Gaming, Inc.
 Emperor Video Slots Corporation
 Fair Share Gaming, LLC
 Illinois Video Gaming, Inc.
 Leisure Time Gaming & Amusements, Inc.
 Mississippi Gaming and Amusements, LLC
 Wami Gaming, LLC
 Windy City Gaming, LLC
for a term of one year expiring in March 2017. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Terminal Operator Initial Applications:
Laurel Gaming, LLC
Member Gould moved to grant a Terminal Operator License to Laurel Gaming, LLC for
a term of one year expiring in March of 2017. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
Member Alejandre abstained from voting. The motion passed 4-0.

2

 MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Ares Gaming Technologies, LLC – Supplier License Renewal
Member Dunn moved to table consideration of the Supplier License Renewal of Ares
Gaming Technologies, LLC until the Board's next meeting in April 2016.
Chicago Gaming Company- Manufacturer License and Distributor License
Renewals
Member Alejandre moved to renew Chicago Gaming Company's Manufacturer
License and Distributor License for a period of one year, expiring in March 2017.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal
Member Gould moved to renew Patriot Gaming & Electronics' Supplier License for
a period of one year, retroactive to February 2016, expiring in February 2017.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses Approvals
Member Robinson moved to approve 1 Technician License and 35 Terminal Handler
licenses, and issue a Notice of Denial to:
Christopher S. Harris
Biana G. Fridman
Keith F. Koga
Mark A. Wheeler
Tristan D. Rogers
James A. Kallas
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Video Gaming Location License Approvals & Denials
Member Alejandre moved to approve 84 Video Gaming Location Licenses for a
period of one year, expiring in March 2017. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing and Request to Reapply
-Original Honey Dews Soul Food Inc. d/b/a Queen of Soul
-Jackson 620, LLC d/b/a The Wheel
Member Robinson moved to deny the requests for hearings submitted by Original
Honey Dews Soul Food Inc. d/b/a Queen of Soul and Jackson 620, LLC d/b/a The
Wheel as neither request established a prima facie case for a hearing. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
City of Streator d/b/a Anderson Field Municipal Golf
Member Alejandre moved to rescind the January 2016 Notice of Denial issued to City
of Streator d/b/a Anderson Field Municipal Golf, grant City of Streator d/b/a
Anderson Field Municipal Golf an Establishment License, and deny the Request for
Hearing as moot. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Delaney's 3rd Street Grub & Pub, Inc. d/b/a Delaney's Grub & Pub
Mehmedi Enterprises Inc. d/b/a Starlite Cafe
Member Alejandre moved to grant Delaney's 3rd Street Grub & Pub, Inc. and
Mehmedi Enterprises Inc. permission to re-apply for a video gaming establishment
license. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Disassociation Pursuant to Board Rule 795
Universal Gaming Group, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to issue a notice of disassociation to Universal Gaming
Group, LLC, ordering it to disassociate from:
Nancy Lundeen;
Learoyd Lundeen; and
Ronley Co.
said disassociation to become effective 21 days from the date of service of the notice,
unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 Accel Entertainment Gaming, LLC
Member Dunn moved to issue a notice of disassociation to Accel Entertainment
Gaming, LLC, ordering it to disassociate from Biana G. Fridman, said
disassociation to become effective 21 days from the date of service of the notice,
unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Board Action to authorize Administrator to settle and dismiss Disciplinary Complaints
issued for owing outstanding tax liability to the State of Illinois
Member Gould moved to delegate authority to the Administrator to settle the
Disciplinary Complaints issued to:
CJ's Catering, Inc. d/b/a CJ's Restaurant;
J.R.'s Last Call, Inc. d/b/a JR's Last Call;
Siyaprem Inc. d/b/a Mity's Pub;
Al's Bella Vista, Inc. d/b/a Al's Bella Vista
Vicki Schwartz d/b/a The Bar;
3 Gam's, Inc. d/b/a One More Bar & Grill; and
Fairview Restarante, LLC d/b/a Fairview Restarante
And further authorize legal counsel to dismiss the complaints upon settlement.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
Violation of Board Rule 230
Bally Gaming, Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Bally Gaming,
Inc., fining it $10,000 for shipping software unapproved in Illinois to a licensed
Terminal Operator, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless the fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Revocation for Criminal Conviction
Donald Thatcher Terminal Handler
Member Dunn moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Terminal
Handler License of Donald Thatcher due to his felony criminal conviction after
licensure, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

5

 Operating VGTs without a Valid State Liquor License
Spott Lounge Co. and Stefanich Restaurant, Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the licenses of:
 Spott Lounge Co. d/b/a Club Classified
 Stefanich Restaurant, Inc.
for violating Section 55 of the Video Gaming Act, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within
that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Antioch Golf Course, LLC and YTKKI, LLC
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment licenses of:



Antioch Golf Course, LLC d/b/a Antioch Golf Course
YTKKI, LLC d/b/a The Hangar Restaurant & Sports Bar

for violating Section 55 of the Video Gaming Act, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a $1,500 fine is paid or an Answer
is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
2 Joes, LLC
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment
license of 2 Joes, LLC d/b/a 2 Joes for violating Section 55 of the Video Gaming Act,
said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a
$1,692.47 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Midlothian Memorial Post 2580, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the US, Inc.
Member Dunn moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the veteran's
establishment license of Midlothian Memorial Post 2580, Veterans of Foreign Wars
of the US, Inc. for violating Section 55 of the Video Gaming Act, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a $2,173.16 fine is
paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 Eddie's Pizza & Pub, Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Eddie's Pizza & Pub, Inc. for violating Section 55 of the
Video Gaming Act, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless a $2,427.95 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Lucky Dog Gaming, LLC
Member Robinson moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the
establishment license of Lucky Dog Gaming, LLC for violating Section 55 of the
Video Gaming Act, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless a $4,962.45 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Involvement in Illegal Gambling
Tri City Post #113 of the American Legion
DJ's Pub & Grill, Inc.
William Baldock d/b/a Willy's Drive In
Fraternal Order of Eagles Granite City Aerie #1126
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the license of:
Tri City Post #113 of the American Legion
DJ's Pub & Grill, Inc.
William Baldock d/b/a Willy's Drive In
Fraternal Order of Eagles Granite City Aerie #1126
for allowing illegal gambling at the location, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless a $10,000 fine is paid or an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Loke, Inc. d/b/a Wolve's Crossing Golf
Member Dunn moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment
license of Loke, Inc. d/b/a Wolve's Crossing Golf for allowing an illegal raffle at the
location and for having an undisclosed person acting as video gaming manager, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless a
$15,000 fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

7

 Misrepresentations made to Illinois Gaming Board Agents
J.K. Neill, Inc. d/b/a 5 O'Clock Bar & Grill
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the license of
J.K. Neill, Inc. d/b/a 5 O'Clock Bar & Grill, due to misrepresentations made to
Illinois Gaming Board Agents, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Gould abstained from voting. The motion passed 4-0.
Amending DC V-15-46 Hyperactive Gaming, LLC
Hyperactive Gaming, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the Terminal Operator License of Hyperactive
Gaming LLC for the violations set forth in DC-V-15-46 issued following the Board's
July 2015 meeting, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. I further move
to authorize legal staff to amend pending Disciplinary Complaint DC-V-15-46
issued to Hyperactive Gaming, LLC to reflect the revocation. Member Gould
abstained from voting. The motion passed 4-0.
Final Board Orders
Roy Vanderpool Post #81 d/b/a American Legion Post 81
Member Alejandre moved to adopt the Administrative Law Judge's
Recommendation and issue a Final Board Order fining Roy Vanderpool Post 81
$1,500 for operating Video Gaming Terminals without a valid liquor license in
violation of Section 55 of the Video Gaming Act. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Vonch, LLC d/b/a Polekatz Gentlemen's Club
Member Robinson moved to adopt the Administrative Law Judge's Recommendation
and issue an Order granting the Illinois Gaming Board's Motion for Summary
Judgment. I further move that because Vonch, LLC is currently a pending
applicant due to the Board's July 23, 2015 motion rescinding the denial of Vonch,
LLC's establishment application, this is not a Final Board Order. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Eric Hoelscher
Member Dunn moved to adopt the Administrative Law Judge's Recommendation
and issue a Final Board Order revoking the Terminal Handler License of Eric
Hoelscher. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

8

 At 10:02 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 