Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
August 24, 2017
On Thursday, August 24, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois at 9:03
AM. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Steve
Dolins, Thomas Dunn and Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of June 28, 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
•

Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes

Member Dolins moved, upon a review of the minutes of closed sessions held by the Board from
January 2017 through June 2017, that the Board approve the dissemination of those minutes, as
they no longer require confidential treatment. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
•

Anita Bedel – Player Rewards Program

PROPOSED RULEMAKING
•

Deputy General Counsel, James Pellum

Member Dunn moved to amend the Board’s Adopted Rules on Riverboat Gambling by
amending Rule 660 (Minimum Standards for Electronic Gaming Devices) and authorizing staff
to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and
approval by the Administrator. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
•

(Board Action / Vote Required)

Casino Queen, Inc. - Casino Queen Holding Company Inc. – Owners License
Renewal

 Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the request by Casino Queen, Inc. d/b/a Casino
Queen to renew its Owners License for a period of four years retroactively to July 2017, expiring
in July 2021, and find the following persons suitable as Key Persons of the licensee:





CQ Holding Company, Inc.
Douglas Bybee
Jeffrey Watson
Robert Barrows

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino
– Thomas William Griffith – Director of Finance – Level 1

Member Dunn moved that the Board approve Thomas William Griffith as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of Finance for Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
•

HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – Christopher M. Britten –
Information Technology Manager – Level 1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Christopher M. Britten as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Information Technology Manager for HC Aurora, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino &
Hotel – Randall H. Conroy – Senior Vice-President and General Manager – Level
1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Randall H. Conroy as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his positions as Senior Vice-President and General Manager for Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Chinedum Austin Otigbuo
– Director of Internal Audit – Level 1

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Chinedum Austin Otigbuo as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of Internal Audit for Elgin Riverboat Resort
d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS

2

 Final Consideration
•

(Board Action / Vote Required)

Micro Gaming Technologies, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal

Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of Micro Gaming
Technologies, Inc. for a period of four years, expiring in August 2021, and find the following
individual suitable as a Key Person of the licensee:


Mark Bryant

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
•

American Gaming & Electronics, Inc. – Anthony R. Tomasello – Key Person

Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Anthony R. Tomasello suitable as a Key Person in
his positions as Chief Executive Officer and President of American Gaming & Electronics, Inc.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Dolins moved to approve 87 Level 2 Occupational Licensees and 163 Level 3
Occupational Licensees, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Denise A. McDonald
Marcel Antwuan Smith
Riley Dezarr Manuel
Brandon L. Steffens

Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Requests for Hearing and Requests to Reapply
Member Dunn moved that the Board rescind its June 2017 denial of Mr. Antoine Ware's license
application, and grant him an Occupational License. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved that the Board grant Mr. Benjamin Lee Wycoff leave to reapply for an
Occupational License. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson moved that the Board revoke the Occupational Licenses of Sheryl Louise
King and Christopher Donal Durfee, due to disqualifying convictions; this action to take effect

3

 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly
filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved to revoke the Occupational License of Samantha J. Leake for her June
2016 arrest, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless
an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to revoke the Occupational License of Kyle Lee Novy for his misconduct
while employed at Hollywood Casino Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time
frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Member Robinson moved to revoke the Occupational License of Anastasiya Kupriy for her
misconduct while on duty at Hollywood Casino Aurora, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within
that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board rescind Disciplinary Complaint DC-17-10 issued
against Daniela DeGrado by the Board at its May 2017 meeting. Member Alejandre seconded
the motion. The motion passed by vote of 4-0, with Member Dunn abstaining from the vote.
At 9:31 AM, Member Dolins motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 