Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
February 22, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:05 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre and Steve Dolins. Members Thomas Dunn and Dee Robinson participated via
telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its
Regular Meeting of January 26, 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S REPORT/COMMENTS
The Chairman thanked the Legal Staff for all their hard work.
BOARD POLICY ITEM


Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes

Member Dolins moved that, based upon a review of the minutes of closed sessions
held by the Board between April 2014 and December 2016, the Board approve the
dissemination of those minutes, as they no longer require confidential treatment.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial/Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Boyd Gaming Corporation – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation – Request for
Initial Consideration of Refinancing Transaction, Request for Waiver of TwoMeeting Rule and Request for Final Consideration of Refinancing Transaction
Member Dolins moved that the Board waive its two-meeting rule and approve the
financing amendment request submitted by Boyd Gaming Corporation for an
amount not to exceed $1.3 billion, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Par-ADice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino, subject to final
documentation being provided to the Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and
subject to revocation of this transaction approval if the Administrator determines

 that the terms and conditions are not materially consistent with those disclosed to
the Board. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Casino Queen, Inc. - Casino Queen Holding Company Inc. – Request for Final
Consideration of Refinancing Transaction
Member Alejandre moved that, based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation,
the Board approve the refinancing transaction request submitted by Casino Queen
Holding Company Inc. for an amount not to exceed $55 million, including a
guarantee of debt payment by Casino Queen, Inc., subject to final documentation
being provided to the Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and subject to
revocation of this transaction approval if the Administrator determines that the
terms and conditions are not materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.


HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Stacy Jackson – Director of
Surveillance – Level 1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Stacy Jackson as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of Surveillance for HC Joliet, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.


Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino
– Owner's License Renewal

Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Owner's License
renewal application of Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a
Harrah's Metropolis Casino until its next regular meeting. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 The United States Playing Card Company – Supplier License Renewal
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Supplier License of The United
States Playing Card Company for a period of four years, expiring in February 2021,
and find the following persons and entities suitable as Key Persons:





Michael W. Slaughter
Newell Brands, Inc.
Jarden Corporation
Bicycle Holding, Inc.

2

 

USPC Holding, Inc.

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals and Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
Member Alejandre moved to find suitable and approve 37 Level 2 Occupational Licenses
and 90 Level 3 Occupational Licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Terry Thomas Maltas
Brian David Dennon
Michelle Lynn Newby
Monika Stump, and
Steven Denten Zabel

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind disciplinary complaint DC-16-36
issued against Bally Gaming, Inc. at the November 2016 meeting. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino, fining the licensee $15,000 for
not properly monitoring patrons and failing to prevent underage individuals from
entering its gaming area, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service
of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that
time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, fining the
licensee $5,000 for allowing revoked media to be used for gaming, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:15 A.M., Member Alejandre motioned to adjourn and Member Dolins seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.

3

 Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

