STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 7, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:25 A.M.— at 160 North LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the
State Panel; Keith Snyder, Member of the State Panel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon
Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel;
and staff.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 9, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the June 9, 2015, meeting. Member Coli moved to approve
the minutes. Member Snyder seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-15-049
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Lake County Clerk of
the Circuit Court

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call the case. General Counsel Nelson called the case then
asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated
that Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Kelly Coyle issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO)
recommending that the Board certify the Union as the exclusive representative of full and part time, non-professional
employees of the Employer. She then summarized the issues presented by the exceptions and response that were
filed. After her presentation, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board accept the
ALJ’s RDO. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member Samolis seconded the motion.
Chairman Hartnett and Member Snyder dissented resulting in a split vote. According to the Board’s rules when the
Board has a split vote, the RDO stands but is not precedential. Therefore, the RDO is affirmed.
2.
Case No. S-CA-15-049
Policemen’s Benevolent Protective Association/City of Chicago Heights
General Counsel Nelson called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Deena Sanceda’s RDO and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-15-045
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Grundy County Civilians, Chapter 693/County of Grundy
General Counsel Nelson called the case. She then asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present
the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on April 7, 2015, the Executive Director
issued a partial dismissal that alleged that Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. She then
discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and the Respondent’s response. After her presentation, she recommended that
the Board accept the partial dismissal. After discussion, Member Samolis moved to accept the Executive Director’s
partial dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-4-156
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of Macoupin
(Public Health Department)
General Counsel Nelson stated that the State Panel had voted on this case to affirm the Executive Director’s
Dismissal at the May 19, 2015 board meeting. The Board’s written Decision and Order had not yet issued.
Representatives for the Union and Employer filed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). She then discussed the
MOU with the Board. After her discussion, she asked whether the Board is willing to take up this matter on its own
motion, and if so, she recommended that the Board reconsider and set aside its oral ruling, so that the MOU can be
accepted. After discussion, Member Coli moved to review this case on the Board’s own motion. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to
vacate the Board’s oral ruling for this case that was made at the May 19, 2015 meeting and to accept the MOU.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of August, 2015.

2

 