MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
November 20, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, November 20, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for
closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Joseph
Moore, James Sullivan and Eugene Winkler.
At 9:50 A.M. on Monday, November 20, 2006 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:00 p.m. The Board convened
its Open session at approximately 1:15 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Roll call was taken with five members present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of October 16, 2006 and October 17, 2006 as well as the open session minutes of
October 17, 2006. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT
Mark Ostrowski stated that the December 2006 meeting will take place on December 18, 2006
and the open session meeting will take place on December 19, 2006.

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS –
a.

Item of Initial Consideration – no motion
●
Hollywood Casino – License Renewal

Pat Medchill – General Manager of Hollywood Casino conducted a power point
presentation. The presentation illustrated on how the largest casino in Illinois has revitalized the
Aurora community. The casino has generated $665M in tax revenue for the State of Illinois.
Member Gardner questioned Mr. Medchill as to the tuition reimbursement program, and Mr.
Medchill stated that the casino does have one and it is utilized by the employees. Member
Winkler commended the Hollywood Casino for a job well done.
b.

Items for Final Action –
● MGM – Request for approval of Fifth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve the Fifth Amended and Restated Loan
Agreement dated October 6, 2006 among MGM Mirage and MGM Grand
Detroit, LLC, Bank of America, N. A., the Royal Bank of Scotland and Nevada
Landing Partnership including the execution of the Guaranty by Nevada
Landing Partnership as provided for therein. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call vote.
•

Grand Victoria Casino – Anthony S. Lacerba, Director of Surveillance – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve Anthony S. Lacerba as a Level One Occupational
Licensee of Grand Victoria Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by role call vote.

•

Grand Victoria Casino– Angela Banks-Buford, Director of Internal Audit – Level
One- Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Angela Banks-Buford as a Level One
Occupational Licensee of Grand Victoria Casino. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS •

PDS Gaming Corporation – Lona M. Finley – Key Person – Member Winkler moved
that the Board certify and approve the following key person of the licensee:
1.

Lona Mae Finley; owner as Trustee, Settlor and Beneficiary of
the Finley Family Trust.

2

 Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
role call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS - APPROVALS & DENIALS
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 51 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 205 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
•

Elizabeth B. Abebe

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Elizabeth B. Abebe, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling
Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to her May 19, 2004 conviction for
retail theft.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Ms. Abebe’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
this complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by role call
vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
•

Tom Swoik – Illinois Casino Gaming Association
Tom Swoik introduced Isabelle Duguay; coordinator of Problem Gambling,
Bensinger, Dupont & Associates.

•

Isabelle Duguay, Problem Gambling Coordinator, Bensinger, Dupont & Associates
Isabelle Duguay introduced herself and went on to explain the two programs that she
is overseeing in an effort to help the problem gambler. She informed the Board of her
education and background. She described the PGET program – Problem Gambling
Education and Training. She indicated that the program aims to train elementary,
high school and college students in 2 hour sessions to educate regarding potential
gambling problems.
Additionally, she described the C2C program – Chance to Change. It is available to
all gamblers, and is part of UCLA gambling program. Any gambling resident of
Illinois is eligible. This program is free of charge, and is strictly confidential. It also
consists of a three month case management program. The goal of the program is for

3

 the gambler to receive personal help and guidance with his or her addiction problem.
This program helps the addictive personality to stop completely, reduce episodes of
gambling, and 30% of the program participants complete the 12 week program. This
program helps the participant to gain control over their addiction and know what to
expect.
•

Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction
Problems

Anita Bedell addressed the Board with concerns of the process in which staff reviews a potential
sale of riverboat casinos. Anita stated her points, and the Chairman expressed concern that she is
getting her information from the media rather than from the Illinois Gaming Board. The
Chairman stated that she needs to obtain factual information rather than hearsay. The Chairman
also stated that the Illinois Gaming Board does a very comprehensive review of any and all
transactions, and they are very thoroughly investigated.
Member Winkler moved that the meeting be adjourned at 2:05 p.m. and the motion was
seconded by Member Gardner. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 