MEETING OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the September 23, 2014 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest Preserve
District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively referred to as the
“Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:30 a.m.
Investment Committee
in attendance:

1.

Mr. Patrick McFadden, Mr. John Fitzgerald, Ms. Diahann Goode, Ms.
Alexis Herrera, Mr. Robert Janura, Mr. Brent Lewandowski, Mr. Patrick
Nester, Mr. Samuel Richardson Jr. and Mr. Lawrence Wilson.

Staff Present:

N. Hackett, M. Maratea, M. Fahrenbach, F. Vinzons and K. Quaye.

Others Present:

M. Joecken, J. Jackson, S. Haskins – Callan; E. Harris – Loop Capital;
T. Picketts – Topeka; R. Baert – Pensions & Investments.

Presenters:

M. Torres, J. Hyun, D. Ali – Adelante Capital.

Approval of July 23, 2014 Investment Committee Meeting Minutes;
Motion for Approval and Adoption of Minutes. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded
by Trustee Nester that the minutes of the July 23, 2014 Investment Committee meeting be approved
and adopted.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2.

Administrative Updates;
Ms. Hackett provided organizational updates for two investment managers retained by the Fund. In
addition, Ms. Hackett informed the Committee that the annual Illinois Utilization report was
submitted and that 17.4% or $1.5 billion of total fund assets were managed by Illinois-based
managers as of December 31, 2013. This compares favorably to the period ended December 31, 2012
of 12.7% or $1.0 billion. The increase in utilization was driven by a $300 million commitment to
Mesirow, a $30 million commitment to LaSalle Investment Management, a $25 million follow-on
allocation to Channing Capital Management and favorable market appreciation for other Illinoisbased managers.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 3.

Emerging Manager Goals Discussion
Ms. Hackett reviewed the Fund’s emerging manager utilization and the impact that recent Fund
actions and manager updates have had on the overall utilization as discussed at the September 17,
2014 EMIC meeting. As a result, the EMIC recommended the following changes and affirmations to
the Fund’s annual target range and minority brokerage goals for the Investment Committee’s
approval:
Annual Target Range Goals for Asset Classes and MWBE Type
a. Fixed Income – 27%-35% (vs. previous 25%-30% as a % of asset class)
b. Domestic Equity – 17%-20% (vs. previous 15%-20% as a % of asset class)
c. Intl. Equity – 10%-15% (no change as a % of asset class)
d. Alternatives – 10%-15% (no change as a % of asset class)
a. Minority – 10%-15% (as a % of Fund)
b. Women – 2.5%-5% (as a % of Fund)
c. Disabled – 0%-1% (as a % of Fund)
Annual Target Range Goals for Minority Broker Dealers
a. Fixed Income – 10% of par value (no change)
b. Domestic Equity – 35% of total trading commissions (no change)
c. Intl. Equity – 10% of total trading commissions (no change)
d. Intl. Equity Small Cap – 3% of total trading commissions (no change)
e. Transition Management – 40% of transition-related commissions (no change)
Motion to Revise and/or Affirm Emerging Managers Target Utilization Goals and to Affirm
Minority Broker-Dealer Target Utilization Goals: It was moved by Trustee Janura and seconded by
Trustee Nester to revise domestic equity and fixed income ranges and affirm the other categories for
utilization of emerging investment managers as proposed by Fund Investment Staff and to affirm the
Fund’s target range goals for utilization of emerging investment managers and minority broker
dealers as proposed by Fund Investment Staff.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

4.

Performance Update;
Mr. Jackson and Mr. Joecken reviewed the Capital Markets Summary and the June 2014 Quarter
performance report for each fund as prepared by Callan. Both funds’ outperformed their benchmarks
for the year-to-date period with Cook County returning 5.43% (vs. 5.29% benchmark) and the Forest
Preserve Fund by returning 5.75% (vs. 5.29% benchmark). Both funds’ domestic equity portfolios
fell slightly short of their benchmarks (Cook 6.36% vs. 6.94%) and (Forest Preserve 6.33% vs.
6.80%). International equity portfolios for the Cook County Fund also fell slightly short of the
benchmark for the year-to-date period (Cook 4.57% vs. 5.89%) as Russia and Ukraine tensions
hindered performance. The Forest Preserve Fund outperformed its benchmark (6.34% vs. 5.89%) for
the year-to-date period as strong active management by Lazard bolstered international equity
performance. Fixed income mandates generated positive returns despite the continued uncertainty
about Fed actions on interest rates for the year to date period (Cook 4.72% vs. 3.93% and Forest
Preserve 3.94% vs. 3.93%). On a rolling 12 month basis (through June) both funds outperformed

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 their benchmarks with the Cook County Fund returning 16.08% (vs. 14.73% benchmark) and the
Forest Preserve Fund returning 17.45% (vs. 15.07% benchmark).
5.

Real Estate Asset Class Review;
Ms. Haskins presented a market overview of the real estate market including the current fund raising
environment, economic growth, and general investment themes. A portfolio overview of the Cook
County Fund’s real estate allocation was also discussed with Ms. Haskins noting that the Cook
County Fund is currently invested with ten real estate managers ranging in vintages totaling $770
million and an additional $44.1 million of unfunded commitments. The funded allocation plus
commitments represents approximately 9.1% of the overall investment portfolio compared to the 8%
target allocation to real estate. As of June, 30, 2014, within the real estate asset class, core had a
44.0% allocation, non-core had a 15.0% allocation, and REITS, which are passively managed, were at
had a 41.0% allocation. Against this backdrop, Ms. Haskins discussed the Fund’s overall real strategy
with implementation recommendations to come at a later meeting.
Finally, Ms. Haskins discussed the Fund’s farmland portfolio and Callan’s ongoing work to identify
alternatives also to be considered at a subsequent meeting.

6.

Real Estate Emerging Manager Search – Finalist Presentation;
Ms. Haskins provided an overview of the real estate emerging manager search and provided brief
remarks about the finalist candidates considered. Ms. Haskins noted the recommendation of Adelante
Capital Management to the Investment Committee based on the liquidity of the REIT strategy and
absence of active REIT managers in the portfolio. Afterwards, representatives from Adelante Capital
Management presented the strategy, research process, capabilities and performance of their domestic
REIT product.

7.

Adjournment.
It was moved by Trustee Richardson and seconded by Trustee Herrera that the meeting be adjourned.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 