CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Monday, April 9 2018
Members Present
Committee Members:

Facilitator:
On Phone:

Pierre Bance
Angela Davis (Chairman)
Melissa Fuller (Vice Chairman)
Bridget Hayman
Laura Isaacs
Michele Lee
Christina McGleam
Susan Riley
Edwin Rodriguez (Late Arrival)
Donna K. Shaw
Amber Smock
Allen West
Michael Connelly, Vice President Service
Planning
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs (who was out on
medical leave).

Chairman Angela Davis called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves. Amy Serpe, CTA’s Manager of ADA Compliance
Programs participated by phone.
Announcements
 Mike Connelly announced that although there was a bill that passed in the House which would
limit parts of the ADA and be detrimental to people with disabilities, Senator Tammy Duckworth
has enough supporters that it will most likely not pass the Senate.
Approval of Minutes
 As there were no corrections to the January 8, 2018 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting
Minutes as presented, Chairman Davis asked for a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted.
 Vice Chairman Fuller moved and Mr. West seconded the motion.
 There was one abstention, and everyone else voted to approve the Minutes as written.
CTA Board Chairman’s Office Update
 Mike Connelly, Vice President of Service Planning provided updates regarding 2 items.

The By-Laws were reviewed especially the structure and both a Chairman and Vice
Chairman have been appointed.

The Public Comment process was reviewed. Beginning with the July 2018 meeting,
public comment will be moved to the beginning of the meeting to ensure that people
have an opportunity to address the Committee in terms of time. (15 minutes is always
1

 

allotted for public comment). Additionally, people can sign up to make public comment
by using a form, similar to what is used for the CTA Board meetings.
Ms. Smock stated she would like to see a section within the By-Laws explaining how
they can be amended. Mr. Connelly stated that this issue can be looked into.

Customer Information and Safety Report
 Graham Garfield, General Manager of Customer Information described what CTA has and is
doing to provide information and outreach to the public regarding preventing people from going
onto the tracks or right-of-way (ROW).
 Mr. Garfield stated, “CTA absolutely activelydiscouragestrespassing on our tracks and we do so through
a
variety of different messaging.
We havepermanentsignage at all of your stations.There isaudiomessaging we've
been using on the PA system at
the stations. We have what we callinformationalcampaigns that are sort of like
advisements,but they're in-housemessaging.
So in terms of signage, there
are permanent signs at all rail stations.
There are three types that you'd find at every rail
station.The first type is found actually not just
in stations, but in a number of other locations.
I'm sure many people are
familiar withit. It's along white sign with red and white sortwarning
of
striping at theend. It says danger keepoff
tracks, high voltage.It also includestwo pictograms or symbols for better
understandability
particularly by persons for
whom English isa second language or may have cognitive
disabilitiesor basically just for general legibility
and
recognition. One is a person being shocked by
the tracks and the other is just a person with
the international prohibition
symbol, the redcircleand slash indicating you should not walking
be
where the signsis. These signs are all over our
systems.They're spaced a hundred feet apart along
the length of every platform facing
you. If you'reon the platform,
they're on the opposite side the
of tracks. They're also along the right of way
all across the system.They're a hundred
feet apartin residential areas, any place where the barriers
-- where a fence is less than ten feet
high.They are 500 feet
apart between stations in the
expresswaymedian as well as at any access gates onthe
to right ofway. And they are
spaced a hundredfeet apart in railyards.We kind of blanketthe systems with these large
signs.In addition, in stations,
we have a signat the end of the platforms at each end on the
end railing that says danger no one permittedtrack
on
except employees onduty. This is an additional-- it also has a pictogram of a person with the
red circle and slash
throughthem.This isan additional sign we put at the end of each
platformbecause there's typically a ladder down to
the track level our employees use for access.
Becausethere is additional access points makinga itlittle easier to get
on the tracks, we havea supplemental sign there to further remind people
to not get on thetracks.The third type of sign
is posted onevery platform at each entrance
point.So in other words, at the top of the stairs or when you
come off of
an escalator or elevator. Basically, any
at point the customer enters the environment, have
we a sign that is generally
black and yellow. It says stay on platform, danger, high voltage
railing,moving trains. It has a pictogram of an adult
and a child holding hands on the platform and it has
an electric shock symbol on the tracks nextthe
to platform indicating
the danger of getting on
the tracks. This is permanent signage we have at every rail
station.
We've also more recently added audio
an
message on our system.It plays on the platform
PA system. We began
playing it in late January
2018. We did recently pause playing it a couple weeks
ago because of technical issues with the
PA system,but we've just recently resumedagain.
it
If you haven't heard it recently, that's
why. We think we've
addressed it and should be playingagain.
it
It plays between approximately 7:00
a.m. and 9:30 p.m. about every 15 to
20 minuteson stations that have our newer generation
PA equipment, which is the majority of our
stations.The vast
majority of our stations are on the new
PA systems. If all the technology works, it will
play the announcement … It says
basically to theeffectof never go down on the tracks, if you
drop something, please alert station staff and will
we assist
you.
We do find a number of people who
go down on the tracks -- there are, of course,
many motivations, many reasons.
But thelarge percentage of them are for ostensibly
innocentmotivations. People drop their wallet,
their phone, they go
down.Of course we wantto discourage thatbehavior. …
In addition to those sorts of more
hard information I'll call them, we have some
added campaigns out that also
discourage getting onthe right ofway. It's sort of a general rail
safetycampaign. This is the second generation ads
of
2

 




we've done.We did a first roll out about
three years ago and then we refreshed the campaign
last summer it began
rollingout. Each of the six creatives, even though
the general umbrella of the campaign was rail
safety, they all deal with
varying degrees of getting
on the tracks because that is a major partthe
of safety issues that we do see with the
customers.
On the following slides we have the
six different creatives.I can describe themvery briefly. One -- all of them just to
let youknow are photographic, so they are
realisticrepresentations of the behavior that we
are discouraging. They're
meant to be a littlebit jarring. They're not sensationalistic, but
we're basically trying to represent whatever the
bad
outcome is going to be moments beforehappened.
it
For instance, in the first adsays
it don't jump into trouble.It's
discouragingpeoplefrom accessing the right of way by jumping over
a fence or crawlingunder.It depicts aperson
jumping over a fence with a train bearing down
a few feetaway. Another discourages people from
duckingunder
crossing gates and trying to beattrain
a across a railroadcrossing.Another says stay behind the
blue referring to the
blue tactile edging along the
edge of the platform. It's discouraging people to
stand back and not lean over the tracks
looking fora train or looking for something on the
tracks.Another says 600 volts will kill
you. Itdepicts somebody
dropping their cell phone down
on the tracks and showing the third railbe
to electrified.Another says you can live
without it fora few minutes. It's another involvingsomebodydropping a cell phone on the tracks and
encouraging
people to find station staff or assistance
ratherthan getting itthemselves.The last says don't create an
emergency.It
involves discouraging people from using
the emergency door release in non-emergency
a
situation, which can lead to
any numberof consequences, and shows him falling outthe
of train.As I mentioned, there's six creatives
in the
campaign. There's car cards and ads on
digitalscreens that went up in September 2017 and
these ads are still running
on oursystem.
Finally, although it does not
deal specifically with trespassing on the rightway,
of I was also asked to say a few words
brieflyon another campaign that we have going right
now called the rules of conduct campaign.
This is reminding our
customers and encouraging
compliancewith a number of different rules that we have
that are CTA policy, they're the
CTA ordinance. They deal with any number of different issues
from quality of life such as not playing audio loudly
to no
soliciting, not laying down on the
seats. Anumber of different issues are touched onthis
by campaign.This campaign
was launched in early2017. It involves a number of different things.
One is permanent signage at all of our rail stations.
So at each rail station entrance, there is a rules
of conduct sign which lists, along withpictogram,
a
some of the
top issues that we want to
notifycustomers about before they pay and enter
the system so we can say that we warned
you not todo these things before you paid your fare, which
helps the police withenforcement.There's also ads, car
cards, digitalads that promote some of these top -- I put top
in quotes, but some of the top issuesthis
in campaign. We
also produced a brochure in
both English and Spanish which lists all of the rules
of conduct. So the campaign and
signage kind oflists the bigger ones that are in issue more often
or perhaps have a bigger impact on safetyquality
or
of
life.But the brochure lists everything.It is the soup to nuts rules of conduct, do's and
don'tson CTA. I brought copies of
that brochurein English and Spanish.I'd be happy todistributethem to the committee and, of course, anyonethe
in
general public who would like
one. They are available at all rail
stations.All bus operators should have them on their
personto provide as needed and they are sometimesbus
in brochure holders aswell.”
Ms. Isaacs asked why the announcements only play during certain hours of the day. Mr.
Garfield explained that, “It’s very loud in residential areas and it creates noise complaints.”
Chairman Davis asked if announcements could be made more frequently such as 10 minutes
apart rather than 15-20 minutes. Mr. Graham explained that the CTA is working towards
having some level of frequency without having announcements played so often that people will
tend to tune them out. He also added that the Control Center is also asked to shift times when
announcements are played so different people may hear them.
Mr. Rodriguez asked if there could simply be a button that people could push to get all
announcements to which Mr. Garfield explained that this would be an infrastructure issue. He
also explained that the informational announcements are related to safety for all customers
and need to be presented to the public whether or not they think they need the information.
3

 















Ms. Smock asked if anyone knew how often people are going onto the track and for what
purposes? She wondered if some people were doing this due to a life crisis, etc.
Mr. Pat Daly, Vice President of Security, stated, “ We get intrusions on the right way
of unfortunately
probably everyday. A lot ofthem include what Graham has talked about, dropping
cell phones and dropping personal
items to thetrack,they'll go down to the track, pick it up, back
go up to theplatform.Then we have intoxicated
customerswho fall or people who are ill who
fall. The last general group I'll describe
are basically criminals.People who
want to get onthe right of way to either avoid paying the
fare, they'll come in from the street or over the
fences,people
who want to do graffiti on the trainsthe
or CTA property or people who are fleeing
from criminal situations, being pursued
by thepolicefor example.As Graham described, we're very
concernedabout the safety of the people who go on the
rightof way to include our own employees, our
customers,and even if they're criminals, we don't want
anyoneto get
hurt.That 600 plus volts can really
- well, it can killyou.”
Ms. Smock was concerned with individuals who may have mental health issues and suggested
that signs might be posted providing information and phone numbers for suicide prevention
assistance.
Mr. Graham explained that this is something CTA has been working on since November 2017.
He stated, “So what we've done is we've placed
a sign -- minimum one sign on every
platform,basically similar to
that yellow and black sign
I described about staying on the platform.
We sort of keyed it to the entrance points.So
basicallythe point at which the customer enters
the environment, there's a sign either right there
or within a fewfeet.So
if that's something ontheir mind, they see a sign that says there's help
and has a number for the national suicide
preventionhotline. So it -- suicides are, as Mr. Daly
can confirm or correct me, they are
statisticallyactually a very,
very, very small percentage of
the right of way incursions.Most of themare accidents in terms of dropping cell
phones,
criminal trespass, things like
that.Of courseI think all of us would agree, with suicide one
is one toomany. So yes, I
thank you for bringing that
up to remind me to mentionthat.So that issomethingwe've actually begun to
address.”
Both Ms. Riley and Ms. Fuller asked if there were any statistics about someone with a disability
such as a visual impairment or balance issue falling or getting onto the right-of-way through
accidental means. Mr. Daley said that most intrusions were purposeful not accidental.
Ms. Fuller asked if as the CTA moves forward with rail station constructions that some sound
could be added, in addition to the tactile edging on the platform that would alert an individual
that they are close to the edge.
Mr. Robert Wittmann, Vice President of Construction was in the audience and responded to
Ms. Fuller’s question. “I think that would besomethingwe'd have to take a hard look
at. It would bea new
technology for us to implement something
like that.Again, it would be on a large scale,
gettingit to every single one of
our transitstations.That would be a big investment, a new piece
of technology. We'd really have to look to see
what
the feasibilityis.”
Ms. Lee asked if there could be a flashing sign added to the signs at “L” stations that provide
train times, etc., that could alert people to stay off the tracks. Mr. Garfield explained that there
already are such messages that rotate within the in-house digital ads displayed on the
screens.
Ms. Lee then asked if there was anything about priority seating mentioned within the rules of
conduct. Mr. Garfield explained that the information is not within those rules but has been part
of various CTA courtesy campaigns. There are also ongoing messages through the bus and
train PA systems pertaining to priority seating.
Mr. Pat Daly, Vice President of Security then provided additional safety information. “Security for
the CTA goes alongwith safety. With the right of way, it's security
a
issue, but it's also a safety
issue.All theother
issues that appear in the code of conduct,
they'resafety and security issues.
So we workcloselywith the Chicago Police Department since
they'rethe main police department covering our
coveragearea in the CTA, but we also work with any
suburbandepartment that the CTA may either have bus
traffic
through or rail traffic.We have partneredwith the Chicago Police Department, Evanston, Oak
Park,and Forest Park
4

 

where we actually hire policemen
on their days off to patrol the systemincrease
to
police presence on thesystem.The
Chicago Police Department has
a specialized unit dedicated to transit. So
they'recalled the public transportation
section. We work hand in hand with them and also the detectives
who do investigations on the
CTA. In our security
department, we havetwo groups.
One is physical security.Basicallywe look at the cameras, fencing, and our
guardscontract guard services they
manage as well andwe do inspections of our percentages to seethere's
if
security improvements such as fencing,
lighting,or other guard serviceneeded.
Then we have an investigative section
in our security services.They are formerpoliceofficers or criminal justice
majors whodo investigations, either internal regarding
employeesor external regarding any type of criminal
or securityrelated incidents that occur on the
CTA, be it rail, bus, or internal to our
employees.So we work every single day 365
days a year with the police department and internally
to keep the CTA safe for the customers and
the employees.
Mike had asked me to bring up one
issuethat you might have heard
about.It occurredin January when an individual
named LawrenceBiondi,who was in a wheelchair, was on the Blue
Line traveling to a medical center through the
Damen stop.While he was on the train, he
was approached by two individuals and onethem
of grabbed his cell phone
and took it fromhim. Thenwhen the train stopped at Damen, the doors
openedand they actually drove his -- he had an
electricwheelchair. They drove his wheelchair off
the train, but kept hisphone.He was a victim –a robbery victim,
which could happen to any of
us. It's not because he's a wheelchair.He justhad his cell phone out, which we don't
advocate andhe was preyed upon by twoindividuals.
One of the things the CTA does have
whichI -- this is my second go around here at the
CTA. The first time, we
started putting in cameras
in 2004 with the Department of Homeland
Security.We've since gotten more funding for those
cameras.So we have tens of thousands of cameras rail
on platforms, rail stations, facility, on
everyrailcar, and every
bus. The quality of thecamerashas increased tremendously over the years
and President Dorval Carter recently
announcedthroughfunding from the city that additional cameras
will be placed in areas of the CTA that aren't
covered,
such as bus turnarounds right now and
enhancedcameras will be placed on the system to help
our capability of
stopping crimes like I described
with Mr. Biondi.We were able to use the cameras both
on the platforms where the
offenders goton. Theyactually got on at Pulaski.And then where hewas forced off the train, we used the cameras as
well on the train to see what happened to him,see
to actual robbery. And we used the cameras because
–
the two
robbers stayed on the train, we were
able to surveil them and find out which station
they exited thesystem.One of
them, when they entered at
Pulaski,used a Ventra card as many of you folks might
have.It was because of our camera
we were able tonote the time and the actual turnstile that went
he through at the station and it was registeredhis
in
name and we were able to go back, give
that information to the police, who then
eventuallyarrestedhim. His cooffender has notbeen identified and is still not arrested asyet.
of But this is a primeexample.
We make bulletins up based on the
camerasand give these bulletins
out. We e-mail themout to a network of about
750 law enforcementand private security folks because many of the
peoplethat we see committing crimes on the CTA
obviouslycommittee crimes in businesses and other
locationsthroughout our servicearea.So we providethis
information and many times we'll sendbulletin
a
out -- we send them out on a daily basis and
we'llinformation from a -say a police officer says,
I recognize this gentleman or robber because
I arrested him about two years
ago. We get the
information and we're able to solve the
crime. Inthat, our cameras help to prevent future
crimes.The cameras didn't
prevent Mr. Biondifrom being robbed, but it will prevent other people
from being robbed by theseindividuals.
So that's more or less a synopsiswhat
of we do. We investigate, we aid the police, and
we help to protect the safety
and security ofthe customers through enhancing the physical
securityof our stations, our buses, our bus
turnarounds,
and our internal security as
well.”
Mr. Bance stated that he sometimes will smell marijuana or smoke on a train or bus and asked if the
cameras on these vehicles can help identify the people smoking? Mr. Daly explained that there is a CT
personnel presence at all rail stations and on buses and trains such as CSAs, guards, bus and rail
operational staff. They will ask people who are smoking tabacco, which is not permitted on CTA proper
to stop and if needed, the Control Center can be called and they can notify police if people are not
compliant or engaged in illegal activities.
5

 


















Mr. Bance then asked if anything could be done when people play music really loud, especially if profa
is in the lyrics. He explained that he had been on a train recently and wondered why the Rail Operator
didn’t say anything about the disturbance. Mr. Daly explained that if the Rail Operator is doing his job
driving the train, he most likely didn’t hear the music, even if the person was in the first car as he is in a
closed compartment and any customer disturbed by something can press the intercom emergency
button to talk directly to the Rail Operator. He went on to explain that this is really a judgement call on
part of the customer whether or not they want to call the Rail Operator but did say that there are K-9
personnel and police that do ride the trains to help enforce a safe ride for all customers.
Mr. Rodriguez explained that he has had experiences where CTA staff has insisted that he
must take an elevator or sit down on the bus due to the fact that he is blind and that this is a
federal law. (This is not true and there is no CTA or Federal Law that has this as a policy).
Chairman Davis explained that he should direct these complaints to the Customer Service and
ADA Departments when they occur for investigation and follow-up.
Mr. West explained that he has had the same types of issues and he personally just stands his
ground and explains that there is no such federal law.
Ms. Smock thanked Mr. Daly for reporting on the follow-up to the incident regarding Larry
Biondi as she and others in the Community know him well.
Ms. Smock wanted to know if police called to the CTA received training regarding interactions
with people with disabilities and in crisis management. Mr. Daly who had been with the
Chicago Police Department until 2011 stated that yes, training by the National Alliance for the
Mentally Ill is provided but did not know if all officers have been trained. He did state that if an
officer was not trained or needed assistance in a situation a trained officer would be called to
assist.
Ms. Fuller asked why some stations seem to enforce rules differently than other stations. She provided
example of loitering where people may be able to stand around at one station and moved along at
another.
Mr. Daly explained that, “…
there is a ruleagainstloitering. The purpose of the CTA is to
transportyou to your
destination, not to be a point,
for example, of a street vendor or you know
somebodysoliciting. So these rules are the
same forall stations.If they're not being enforced one
at station, it could be perhaps either the
CTA employee wasn't
attentive enough.But allCTA employees as well as our security guards and
the police know what the rules of the code
of conductare and are asked to enforce them – if they feel
as–far as our employees, if they feel the need
for police
assistance, they're encouraged to call
our control center and to get somebody wholoitering
is
out of thestation.”
Mr. Rodriguez stated that sometimes when people offer to help he doesn’t know who they are as he is
unable to see vests, etc., and questioned if CSAs are CTA employees or subcontractors to which Mr.
Daly explained that they are CTA employees. He went on to state that anyone offering assistance shou
identify themselves as a CTA employee.
Ms. Fuller asked what jurisdiction the Rosemont CTA Station is in regarding who patrols it? Mr.
Daly explained that the station is in the suburb of Rosemont and patrolled by the Rosemont
Police Department. He went on to explain that the Skokie Station is patrolled by Skokie Police,
etc.
Ms. Lee commented that she does not ride the “L” at night as she does not always feel safe.
She also stated that she would be hesitant to push the emergency button on the train as she
feels this would call attention to her. Mr. Daly said that a cell phone could be used to alert
police and that the CTA is working on the possibility of providing an app where people could
text information and would not have to speak and Ms. Lee stated that she really liked that idea.
Mr. Bance stated that he often has difficulty in locating the call buttons on “L” platforms as he is
blind.
6

 





Ms. Lee would like to see signs on trains alerting people that there may or may not be
someone from security coming onto the train. She believes this may detour people from
stealing cell phones or other crimes.
Graham Garfield, G
eneral Manager, Customer Information responded that, “There aren't permanent signs
ouron
vehicle
about that, but we have had campaigns
in the past, particularly around when we've
increasedour camera presence
reminding customersthat they're being watched and being recorded.
There are decals on all of the buses and trains
remindingcustomers that they're being recorded and
that there is a security presence and we will
prosecuteall crimes
against both passengers and employees
to the fullest extent of the
law. There is some language out there that
does let
customersknow. It doesn't sayexplicitlywe're patrolling, but there is a camera network,
we do prosecute and pursue
criminal matters tothe fullestextent.”
Ms. Hayman stated she was appreciative of all the information provided regarding safety and
security and asked if statistics were kept specifically related to people with disabilities to which
Mr. Daly stated that statistics were not kept for any specific group.
Mr. Rodriguez asked what a person should do if they are on a bus and feeling threatened by
another passenger. Mr. Daley stated that it depends on the situation. If possible, customers
should communicate with the Bus Operator who has several means to alerting the Control
Center and police. Customers can also call 911 if they feel this is necessary and can’t get to
the Bus Operator.

Timing Issue and Completion of Meeting
 Chairman Davis stated that, due to the fact that Committee members needed to go into an
Executive Session for Ethics Training that unless anyone had any pressing matters, the other
topics/reports listed on the Agenda including Construction, All Stations Accessibility Program
(ASAP), Escalator/Elevator and Customer Services Reports would be updated at the next
meeting.
 Two additional issues were raised to which Mr. Connelly said would be addressed at a future
meeting.

Ms. Smock wanted to know if there would be additional Federal funding given to the
CTA, and

Mr. Rodriguez asked if there would ever be just one Ventra card that people could use
which would define, disability, ride free, Paratransit rider, etc.
Public Comment

Chairman Davis then called on the 2 individuals who had signed up for Public
Comment.

Garland Armstrong, a former member of CTA’s ADA Advisory Committee, thanked both
Mr. Daly and Mr. Garfield for presenting all of the safety, security and communications
information because he is always concerned about people being on the “L” tracks/ROW.
He suggested that signs should be presented in different languages as a reminder to
everyone.

Jamal Powell, current Chairman of the Pace Suburban ADA Advisory Committee also
thanked the presenters as he felt the information was well prepared and delivered. He
also stated that CTA’s Customer Service (CS) Department does a good job at getting
back to people and advised anyone who has a concern to report it to the CS
Department.

Chairman Davis and Mr. Connelly both reminded everyone that in July there would be a
slightly different process regarding Public Comment as people are asked to sign up
7

 ahead of the day of the meeting. The ADA Manager should be contacted if people have
questions or need assistance.
Od Business
 There was no old business.
New Business
 Ms. Smock would like a representative from the Chicago Police Department (CPD) to come to
either the next meeting or the meeting after that (July or October) to talk about their
interactions with the Disability Community in relation to the CTA.
 Ms. Isaacs would like to hear about safety and security as it pertains to buses.
 Mr. Connelly responded that these topics can be looked into for a future follow-up meeting.
Adjournment
 Ms. Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday July 9th, 2018.
 Ms. Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Bance moved to adjourn the meeting and Ms.
Riley seconded. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting adjourned at 2:55 pm.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 Although there was not time during the meeting to present the Escalator/Elevator and
Customer Service Statistics, they are being presented here as a courtesy to Committee
members (who did receive them) and the public.
Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Statistics
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance
for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 For the 1st quarter of 2018 vs. Q-1 in 2017, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:

Jan. 2018 = 98.9% vs. Jan. 2017 = 99.2% (-0.3%)

Feb. 2018 = 97.2% vs. Feb. 2017 = 98.9% (-1.7%)

Mar. 2018 = 99.0% vs. Mar. 2017 = 99.2% (-0.2%)
 For the 4th quarter of 2017 vs. Q-4 in 2016, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:

Jan. 2018 = 95.3% vs. Jan. 2017 = 96.9% (-14.5%)

Feb. 2018 = 95.2% vs. Feb. 2017 = 95.8% (-8.9%)

Mar. 2018 = 97.5% vs. Mar. 2017 = 97.3% (-2.9%)
 The data also included information on the following Escalator Reconditioning Projects.

Montrose Blue Line (Up Escalator) anticipated start date – June 1, 2018.

River Road Blue Line (Up Escalator) – anticipated start dates October 1, 2018.
Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for review in
addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 The following are the 1st quarter statistics regarding disability-related Customer Service
complaints.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-1 2018 (January, February and March
2018), = 4,267 of which 188 were ADA related complaints (4%).

Q-1, 2018 Bus Related Complaints: Jan. 44, Feb. 49 and Mar. 49, totaling 142.
8

 


















Q-1, 2018 Rail Related Complaints: Jan. 11, Feb. 15 and Mar. 20, totaling 46.
During the 3 month 2018 Q-1 period, there were a total of 188 ADA Compliance
Complaints which include things such as rude operator, pass up, ramp issues, stroller
issues, refusing boarding with a legitimate service animal, failure to kneel bus, AVAS
(announcements), priority seating, gap filler, elevator and escalator issues and touching
passenger, service animal or personal equipment (if not requested to assist).
Below is a breakdown of the top ADA Compliance Issue complaint categories for Q-1
2018 vs Q-1 2017:
ADA Compliance accounted for 188 complaints in 2018 vs. 144 in 2017.
Rude Operator totaled 49 complaints in 2018 vs. 38 in 2017.
Pass up totaled 16 complaints in 2018 vs. 20 in 2017.
Lift/Ramps totaled 11 complaints in 2018 vs. 10 in 2017.
Ramp issues totaled 11 complaints in 2018 vs 10 in 2017.
Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 8 complaints in 2018 vs. 1 in 2017.
Stroller issues totaled 4 complaints in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017.
Priority Seating issues totaled 3 complaints in 2018 vs. 6 in 2017.
Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS (automated stop announcements) totaled 8
complaints in 2018 vs. 13 in 2017.
Failure to announce stops totaled 4 complaints in 2018 vs. 3 in 2017.
Service Animals totaled 5 complaints in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017.
Gap Filler Issues totaled 4 complaints in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017.
Elevator Issues totaled 6 complaints in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017.
Escalator, Accessible Service and Touching Passenger/Equipment/Service
Animal Issues totaled 0 complaints in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017 for each category.

ajs 7-1-18

9

 