MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JUNE 24, 1997
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on June 24, 1997 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’
B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:40 a.m. Member Pyatt moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:45 p.m.
Board Minutes
Chairman Johnson made a change to the May minutes under Legislative Update and
called for a motion on the amended minutes.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the amended minutes from the
open and closed sessions of the May 20, 1997 regular meeting. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report

1

 Chairman Johnson stated that the Board will convene a two day meeting in July. The
two day session will take place on Monday, July 28 and Tuesday, July 29 with the
Monday session tentatively scheduled for closed session business. The Chairman also
noted that the Board may convene a special meeting in July. The date has been
tentatively identified as July 24. Chairman Johnson stated that the Board has been
invited to hold the October Board meeting in Elgin. He instructed staff to poll Board
members as to their preference.
The Chairman reported that the Illinois Casino Gaming Association (“ICGA”) provided
Board members with materials the ICGA has developed in conjunction with its
responsible gaming initiative. The ICGA provided each of its member casinos with
business card-sized informational pieces. One side of the card identifies the “800”
number “helpline”. The other side of the card contains “self-help” questions that allow
an individual to help assess whether he or she is susceptible to being a problem
gambler.
The Chairman noted several items concerning the agenda. Empress-Joliet will present
a request proposal concerning a capital expansion project before its renewal
presentation; Rev. Tom Grey will make public comments following HP, Inc.’s licensure
renewal presentation; and, the Board may consider final action on the renewal request
from HP, Inc.
The Chairman stated that due to the length of the agenda the presentation on proposed
changes to Board rules and regulations will be abbreviated. The Chairman suggested
that the Administrator share the rules in draft form with licensees and other interested
parties.
Administrator's Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance;
and, Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported on the following items:
•

Edward Muir, who filed a key person Form 1 in conjunction with Hollywood
Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Corp. (“HCC”), has been authorized to
withdraw his Form 1 application. Mr. Muir no longer has a key person
relationship with these companies.

•

HCC’s partner, Edward DeBartolo, has withdrawn from participation in its
proposed Bossier City, Louisiana riverboat casino venture.

•

Empress Casino-Joliet has a new President, Joseph Canfora. Mr. Canfora
will also serve as President of the Empress Casino-Hammond. Dennis
Brown will no longer serve as Chief Operating Officer for both Empress
affiliates. Mr. Brown will be General Manager of Empress-Joliet.

2

 •

Empress-Joliet has notified staff of changes to the $50 million EmpressHammond bank loan to which Empress-Joliet is a guarantor. Empress
proposes to release the Joliet affiliate as a guarantor and increase the term
and the maximum amount of credit available. Staff is currently evaluating this
transaction.

•

The operating budget for the Gaming Board approved by the legislature totals
$13.5 million, a 5.1 percent increase over the FY97 level.

Owner Licensee Items
HP, INC. - Donna More, representing Donna Ring, requested approval of Mrs. Ring as
an owner of HP, Inc. Member Browder moved that the Board approve Donna Ruth
Ring as a Key Person of HP, Inc. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Joseph McQuaid, representing HP, Inc., stated that shareholders of HP were delayed.
Chairman Johnson deferred HP’s renewal presentation to later in the meeting.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“Alton”) - Mark Heffernan, representing Alton, requested
approval of Patsy Hubbard as a key person. Member Cudmore moved that the Board
approve Patsy Hubbard as a Key Person of Alton Gaming Company. Member
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
HARRAH’S JOLIET CASINO (“Harrah’s”) - Patrick Dennehy, representing Harrah’s,
requested approval of Robert Martin as a key person. Member Vickrey moved that the
Board approve Robert B. Martin as a Key Person of Des Plaines Development
Limited Partnership. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensees Items
ARISTOCRAT, INC. - Donna More and John McCafferty, representing Aristocrat,
requested renewal of its supplier’s license.
Administrator Belletire stated that due to a number of corporate changes staff
recommends a restricted license.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Aristocrat, Inc.’s application for
renewal of its Supplier’s license and issue a restricted license for a period of one
year expiring June, 1998. I further move that the Board order the following:
1. Aristocrat must provide to the Board a complete explanation, with
supporting documentation, of the reasons the company has experienced a
high level of turnover in its management personnel in the past year;

3

 2. Aristocrat must submit, with dispatch, Form 1 applications for all Directors
and Key Persons of Aristocrat Leisure Limited, Aristocrat International Pty.
Ltd and Aristocrat Inc.;
3. Aristocrat International Pty. Ltd and Aristocrat Leisure Limited must submit
Business Entity and Form 1 applications with dispatch; and
4. Aristocrat must submit to the Board a written statement detailing the extent
and nature of Leonard Ainsworth’s role, past and present, in the
managerial and/or financial affairs of Aristocrat, Inc.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTING OF NEVADA (“Universal”) - Kazunari Ikeda, representing
Universal, requested renewal of its supplier’s license.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Universal Distributing of Nevada’s
application for renewal of its Supplier’s license for a period of 4 years expiring
June, 2001. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve 107 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 253 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 2 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2 and 4
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny James
application for an Occupational Level 3. Member Cudmore seconded the
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

record,
in the
Foley’s
motion.

Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, issue complaints for disciplinary action
against Christine Brewer and Stephanie Stephens and revoke their respective
licenses. The complaints pertain to the licensees’ unauthorized taking of United
States currency belonging to the Grand Victoria Casino with the intent to
permanently deprive the casino of the money. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
BLACKJACK TABLE INCIDENT
4

 Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint for disciplinary action
against Robert Gardner, Jr. The complaint seeks to reprimand Mr. Gardner for
his role in assembling a blackjack table to be transported to Robert Kegley’s
office and to suspend Mr. Gardner’s license for 14 days for failing to truthfully
respond to staff’s inquiries. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt move that the Board issue a complaint for disciplinary action
against Viola Avants. The complaint seeks to suspend Ms. Avant’s license for 30
days for failing to truthfully respond to staff’s inquiries. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint for disciplinary action
against John Matravers. The complaint seeks to reprimand Mr. Matravers for his
involvement in the delivery of a blackjack table to Robert Kegley’s office. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Pyatt move that the Board issue a complaint for disciplinary action
against Dennis Brown. The complaint seeks to suspend Mr. Brown’s license for
45 days for causing a blackjack table to be delivered to Mr. Kegley’s office.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Robert
Kegley. The complaint seeks to fine Mr. Kegley in the amount of $15,000 for
using his ownership position at Empress to have a blackjack table delivered to
his office, for unlawfully possessing a blackjack table and for failing to truthfully
respond to staff’s inquiries.
I further move that Mr. Robert Kegley be ordered not to enter the premises of
Empress-Joliet except for the purposes of conducting official business relating to
Empress-Joliet. Each such entry and the purpose thereof must be promptly
reported to the Administrator or his designee. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Empress Casino-Joliet (“Empress-Joliet”). The complaint seeks to fine EmpressJoliet in the amount of $50,000 for the actions of its agents and employees which
resulted in the delivery of a blackjack table to Robert Kegley’s office. The
complaint further cites Empress-Joliet for its failure to initiate measures to
prevent and discourage future violations of Article 28 of the Criminal Code.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
CIRCUMVENTION OF LICENSEE DENIAL
5

 Member Vickrey moved that the Board issue a second disciplinary complaint
against Dennis Brown and suspend his license for an additional 60 days. The
complaint involves Mr. Brown’s circumvention of the Board’s denial of an
occupational licensee by allowing a denied individual to continue his duties at
Empress-Joliet. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint involves EmpressJoliet’s circumvention of the Board’s denial of an occupational licensee by
allowing a denied individual to continue his duties at Empress-Joliet. Member
Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
TAX IMPLICATIONS OF LIMOUSINE USE
Member Cudmore moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $15,000. The complaint involves Empress’
failure to prepare appropriate tax documentation reflecting Mr. Kegley’s nonbusiness use of a limousine as income to Kegley and for improperly deducting
expenses incurred by Empress-Joliet for Mr. Kegley’s non-business use of the
limousine. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS COMPLAINTS RE: RELATED PARTY CONTRACTS
1. Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint involves
Empress’ failure to notify the Board of a related party agreement to provide its
employees to Empress-Hammond. The complaint more importantly cites
Empress-Joliet’s Board of Directors for failing to approve these related party
transactions and Empress-Joliet for entering into these transactions without
reaching agreements as to their fair market value. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
2. Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint involves
Empress’ failure to notify the Board of a related party agreement to provide its
patron database to Empress-Hammond. The complaint more importantly cites
Empress-Joliet’s Board of Directors for failing to approve these related party
transactions and Empress-Joliet for entering into these transactions without
reaching agreements as to their fair market value. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
3. Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint involves
Empress’ failure to notify the Board of a related party agreement to provide its
trademark to Empress-Hammond. The complaint more importantly cites
6

 Empress-Joliet’s Board of Directors for failing to approve these related party
transactions and Empress-Joliet for entering into these transactions without
reaching agreements as to their fair market value. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
4. Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a complaint against Empress-Joliet
and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint involves
Empress’ failure to notify the Board of a related party agreement to provide its
internal control system, manuals and reservation system to EmpressHammond. The complaint more importantly cites Empress-Joliet’s Board of
Directors for failing to approve these related party transactions and EmpressJoliet for entering into these transactions without reaching agreements as to
their fair market value. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH BOARD ORDER
Member Cudmore moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Empress-Joliet and fine the company in the amount of $25,000. The complaint
involves Empress’ failure to comply with a Board Order requiring Empress-Joliet
to correct deficiencies reported in the Board’s 1996 audit. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
Member Cudmore moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Empress-Joliet and fine the company in the amount of $25,000. The complaint
involves Empress-Joliet’s failure to maintain records in violation of Board rules.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
FAILURE TO OVERSEE INTEGRITY ISSUES
Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Empress-Joliet and fine the company in the amount of $75,000. The complaint
involves Empress’ failure to oversee integrity issues relating to its owners,
directors and employees, including its failure to establish procedures to educate
those persons of their duties and obligations under the Riverboat Gambling Act
and Article 28 of the Criminal Code. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION TO THE STATE
Member Browder moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against
Empress-Joliet and fine the company in the amount of $250,000. The complaint
involves Empress-Joliet’s failure to make reasonable efforts to meet its fiduciary
obligations to the State of Illinois as articulated under the Riverboat Gambling
Act.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Board Policy Items
LEGISLATIVE SESSION - Administrator Belletire reported that House Bill 2211 passed
both chambers and awaits the Governor’s signature. HB 2211 amends the Consumer
Installment Loan Act to allow a licensee under the Act to maintain a limited purpose
branch for the sole purpose of making loans as permitted under the Act. It specifically
prohibits a limited purpose branch from being located within 1,000 feet of any type of
gambling facility.
RULES & REGULATIONS - Administrator Belletire reported on proposed rulemaking.
The Administrator stated that owner licensees have expressed interest in utilizing nonemployee companies or individuals to recruit gamblers to their property. The current
“junketeer” rule requires such specialized services to be subject to supplier licensure
requirements. The Administrator stated that staff propose altering the junketeer
definition and creating a new category and process called “Marketing Agents”. A
Marketing Agent would be a non-employee of a licensee who recruits patrons under a
contract for compensation by the licensee. Licensees would obtain “prior approval” for
such contracts.
The Administrator discussed trust relationships (relatives of key persons who are trust
beneficiaries). He reported that staff have developed a “Trust Registration Form” that
will allow all trust relationships, of a key person, to be identified and a determination
made if further investigation is warranted.
The Administrator also discussed an “Institutional Investor Disclosure Form” being
added to the rules. This form will require an Institutional Investor to declare its intention
with regard to ownership of five percent or more of stock.
The Administrator reported a proposed minor change of an existing rule that requires
owner licensees to do background checks and assure qualifications of individuals who
will be in their employ. The language in the proposed rule makes it clear that each
licensee is expected to define qualifications for the various positions.
The Administrator stated that staff will share the proposed rules with licensees to obtain
comments and concerns.
HULL INSPECTION - Joseph Haughey, Deputy Administrator of Enforcement, reported
that the Coast Guard granted Empress-Joliet a one year extension to its hull inspection
requirement. During this time, alternatives to a dry dock inspection will be investigated.
Mike Hansen, representing Empress, stated that since Empress-Joliet received its one
year extension, contingent plans for a dry dock inspection have been initiated.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO QUEEN, INC. - Edward Duffy, representing Casino Queen, requested renewal
of its owner’s license.

8

 Mr. Duffy discussed the Board’s three areas of concern during Casino Queen’s 1996
renewal and noted the actions taken by the company. First, in response to concerns
with procurement procedures, a full-time Director of Purchasing was hired and
purchasing procedures were re-established. Second, the Board suggested that Casino
Queen was going beyond the area of charitable assistance with its Foundation. In
response, Casino Queen is phasing out loans to small businesses. Mr. Duffy also
reported that Casino Queen is becoming more involved in activities that have a broader
effect on the community. Thirdly, the Board suggested Casino Queen purchase more
goods and services from Illinois vendors. Over the past year Casino Queen has
increased purchases from Illinois vendors.
Mr. Duffy discussed plans for the upcoming year. He reported that Casino Queen is
expanding its visitors center, modifying the entry to the riverboat, constructing an RV
park, and building a 150 room hotel and an entertainment/convention center (18,000 20,000 sq. ft.). A new sign has also been constructed to advertise the riverboat as well
as communicate community events and programs.
Member Vickrey asked questions about marketing strategies for the hotel, uses of the
entertainment center and the location of airports. Company officials provided brief
responses.
HP, Inc. - Joseph McQuaid, representing HP, Inc., acknowledged Sandra Berryman,
Mayor of East Dubuque, in attendance to demonstrate her support of HP’s renewal.
Mr. McQuaid requested renewal of HP’s owner’s license and stated that HP’s
shareholders have been working with the General Assembly for two years to achieve
authority for the relocation of its owner’s license. Mr. McQuaid further requested the
Board address the issue of the Board’s authority to renew HP’s license at a docksite
other than Jo Daviess County: either on or off the Mississippi River.
Donald Flynn, a majority shareholder in HP, Inc., stated that HP has been rendered
uneconomical for gaming due to Iowa’s laws for dockside gaming. He further stated
that shareholders have invested $6 million since August, 1996, to maintain the viability
of the license.
Michael Ficaro discussed how he feels the Board can reissue HP’s license pursuant to
several sections of the Riverboat Gambling Act. Mr. Ficaro further requested that the
Board conditionally renew HP’s license until clarification of the authority of the Board to
grant renewal at a docksite other than Jo Daviess County either on or off the Mississippi
has been explored.
Tom Grey, representing the Concerned Citizens for Jo Daviess County, stated his
opposition to the renewal of HP’s gaming license. Mr. Grey reported that the Frentress
Lake area (Silver Eagle docksite) still needs to be dredged and wildlife preserves need
to be repaired. Rev. Grey further reported an increase in bankruptcies in Jo Daviess
County. He also referred to new infrastructure, built at public expense to serve the

9

 Silver Eagle, now services only a minority of East Dubuque residents, at great expense
to all area taxpayers.
Administrator Belletire reported that Judy Gratton, Chairperson of the Jo Daviess
County Board, submitted letters supporting the renewal of HP. Ms. Gratton further
requested that the County be compensated for infrastructure improvements, job losses
and the continuation of gambling addiction programs if HP’s license is not renewed.
The Administrator reported that HP has not met all of its requirements for relicensure
established under the Act and rules and regulations of the Board. He stated that staff
recommend that the Board not renew the owner license of HP, Inc.
The Administrator outlined a framework set forth in the Board rules and regulations to
support the staff’s recommendation. He stated that HP failed to meet at least six of the
explicit requirements of rule 3000.236, in that:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

HP submitted a non-responsive application.
HP maintains an inadequate gaming operation.
HP lacks financial viability.
HP exhibits significant compliance shortcomings.
HP does not provide for positive economic development and impact.
HP does not adhere to the overall requirements of the Act.

Administrator Belletire provided the Board with a verbal presentation of the attached
report on HP, Inc. relicensure.
Chairman Johnson stated that HP is asking the Board to relocate its gaming license.
He further stated that the Illinois Attorney General wrote in an opinion to Senator Pate
Philip that the Board does not have the authority to relocate an existing license.
Mr. Ficaro requested that the Board ask the Attorney General to clarify the issue in the
opinion that discusses relocation of a license and to suspend HP’s operations until the
Attorney General responds.
Other Board members sought clarification from HP, Inc. concerning their proposed
operations and HP’s request for Board action.
At 3:10 p.m., Member Pyatt moved that the Board retire to closed session pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraph (1) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss Issues
concerning applicants and licensees.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 3:20 p.m.

10

 Mr. Ficaro asked the Board to consider the following proposed motion:
The Board move that HP, Inc.’s license be conditionally renewed until the Illinois
Gaming Board obtains clarification of its authority to grant a renewal of HP, Inc.’s
license at a dock site other than Jo Daviess County either on or off the
Mississippi River.
The Board further move that such conditional license duration not exceed one
year or the earlier of the following events:
a) An opinion by the Illinois Attorney General clarifying the authority of
the Illinois Gaming Board to renew HP, Inc.’s license at a dock site
other than Jo Daviess County; or
b) Action by the Illinois General Assembly granting the Illinois Gaming
Board the authority to allow relocation of a dock site after initial
renewal of a license.
and that all gaming operation of HP, Inc. be suspended until further action by the
Illinois Gaming Board.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board not renew HP, Inc.’s Owner’s license due to
the licensee’s failure to continue to meet all of the requirements of the Act and
Board rules. The existing license will, therefore, expire on July 31, 1997. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by a roll
call vote.
Member Pyatt left the meeting at 3:30 p.m.
EMPRESS CASINO-JOLIET - Mike Hansen, representing Empress-Joliet, requested
initial consideration on the expansion of Empress-Joliet’s hotel. Mr. Hansen stated that
Empress will double the size of the current hotel and will invest $6 million. In addition, a
4,000 sq. ft. conference facility and an RV park that accommodates 100 - 150 RVs are
part of the proposed expansion. Empress hopes to stimulate additional tourism with the
expansion of its hotel and the creation of the RV park.
Member Vickrey asked questions about the occupancy of the hotel and what
percentage of rooms are “comped”. John Costello responded that less than 13 percent
to date have been “comped”.
Peter Ferro, representing Empress, requested renewal of its owner’s license.
Mr. Ferro introduced members of the Empress management and newly elected
President of Empress Casino Corporation, Joe Canfora. Mr. Canfora stated that he
understands and respects the importance of operating with integrity and looks forward
to working with Gaming Board staff.

11

 Mr. John Costello gave a brief report on new marketing programs instituted to
strengthen the Empress brand name and the Joliet property. The programs include
expansion of the existing hotel, expansion of out-of-state bus and air marketing
programs, aggressive direct mail advertising and TV and radio ads.
A video presentation depicted the continued investment by Empress-Joliet in the
community of Joliet. Empress-Joliet employs 1,700 people and has an annual payroll
of $45 million. It was noted that since its inception Empress has contributed tax
revenues to the State of Illinois in excess of $150 million, $60 million to the town of
Joliet and $40 million to local suppliers. The tax dollars have been used to build a new
fire station; expand the Silver Cross Hospital and St. Joseph’s Medical Center; build a
new runway at the Lewis University Airport; make renovations to the Realto Square
Theater; build new parks and playgrounds; install new sewer systems and lighting; buy
new city vehicles; institute a recycling program; and, establish new programs for senior
citizens.
The video presentation also recognized Peter Ferro and Empress for the formation of
the “Empress Office of Community Involvement” which presented a check for $450,000
to the Will County Center for Economic Development’s “Competitive Edge Campaign”.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Ferro to explain why Empress has seen a greater drop in
win per admission than Harrah’s since the Indiana operations opened. Mr. Ferro
attributed this to Empress’ bus business which he stated, typically does not bring in high
level players. Mr. Costello attributed the variance to Harrah’s more competitive slot
product.
Member Vickrey asked what percentage of Empress-Joliet’s patron base is from
northwest Indiana. Mr. Costello responded between 8 and 10 percent. Member
Vickrey asked about airports in the Joliet area and the proposed RV park.
Member Vickrey commended Mr. Ferro on the progress Empress has made in Joliet.
He noted the entrepreneurial success of the company’s owners but advised Empress to
recognize the unique demands of the tightly regulated gaming industry.
Mr. Ferro acknowledged Member Vickrey’s comments and requested renewal of
Empress-Joliet’s owner’s license.
HARRAH’S JOLIET CASINO (“Harrah’s) - Patrick Dennehy, representing Harrah’s,
discussed the operating environment and impact Indiana licensees have had on
Chicago area casinos in the last twelve months.
Mr. Dennehy summarized marketing initiatives designed to attract and retain
customers. He reported that Harrah’s changed its cruise schedules, developed a new
business program called “money back guarantee”, created a player development

12

 department which identifies potential high-end players and uses motor coach programs
more extensively.
Mr. Dennehy discussed Harrah’s hull inspection due February 1998. He stated that
Harrah’s is exploring two options. The first would involve traveling to New Orleans with
a projected down time of 30 days. The second option would bring a dry dock facility to
the Joliet area with a projected down time of 7 days. In July Harrah’s will request a one
year extension from the US Coast Guard.
Mr. Dennehy stated that Harrah’s has continued to expand economic development
commitments through a five year commitment to the Joliet/Will County Chamber of
Commerce-Center for Economic Development totaling $400,000 and a ten year
voluntary participation in a tax to provide economic development services to the Joliet
City Center totaling $700,000.
Harrah’s continues to be committed to the Joliet community with such initiatives as the
Adopt-A-School program and by supporting responsible gaming efforts. Members of
Harrah’s management team are actively involved in numerous charitable and civic
organizations and that, overall Harrah’s employees volunteer an average of 3.6 hours
per worker per month. Harrah’s has also partnered with Empress-Joliet on an annual
Project 21 poster and essay contest.
Mr. Dennehy discussed a $30 million proposal for a 204 room hotel with 9,000 sq. ft. of
meeting space and 8,000 sq. ft. of office space. An enclosed skywalk will be developed
connecting the parking facility to the hotel being constructed. A 120 seat player lounge
is to be completed for higher level players. Mr. Dennehy noted that construction could
begin in the fall on these projects.
Mr. Dennehy addressed the Board’s areas of concern during the last renewal period.
He stated that Harrah’s renegotiated its management agreement eliminating revenue
based management fees; improved the level of procurement from Illinois vendors; and,
continues to work with IGB to measure economic development.
Mr. Dennehy requested renewal of Empress-Joliet’s owner’s license.
Member Vickrey asked questions on Harrah’s plans to market the hotel and applauded
the Illinois licensees who are developing hotel and entertainment facilities.
Member Cudmore left the meeting at 4:15 p.m.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO CORPORATION (“HCA”) - Edward Pratt, representing HCA,
requested renewal of HCA’s owner’s license.
Mr. Pratt introduced Paul Borek from the Aurora Economic Development Commission
and several HCA management personnel.

13

 A video presentation depicted the continued investment by HCA in the community of
Aurora. He noted the company has recently completed capital expenditures totaling
$20 million. This investment provided a 500 space parking garage; a studio store;
ballroom facilities in the civic center; expansion of the Fox Riverwalk; and, completion of
a pedestrian bridge over the Fox River.
Mr. Pratt stated that HCA is committed to the Aurora community. Employees have
participated in the Greater Aurora Chamber of Commerce membership drive and HCA
management serves on a variety of the local businesses Boards and sponsors
weekend tourism events.
Mr. Pratt reported that investments made by HCA and cross marketing with other local
entertainment facilities have helped offset the competition from Indiana. He further
reported that Poker has been very successful.
Chairman Johnson asked what HCA is doing in the area of hull inspection
requirements. Mr. Pratt stated that HCA built its riverboats with stainless steel hulls and
feels HCA will get an extension or waiver of visual inspection. A backup plan has been
discussed to create a dry dock on the Fox River.
In response to Member Vickrey, Richard Knight stated that HCA has $4 million targeted
for new investments in HCA for calendar year 1997.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Borek about disagreements between the City of Aurora and
HCA over capital developments and how monies are spent. Mr. Borek reported that he
felt the relationship between HCA and the city was quite positive and there were no
significant disagreements over capital projects.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 4:50 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board
attachment:
belletir/owners/hprelice

14

 