STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 6, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff
members. John F. Brosnan, Sylvia Rios, Colleen M. Harvey, and Ellen M. Strizak acted as counsel to
the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD SEPTEMBER 15, 2009

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the September 15, 2009 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion—
three in favor, none against—Chairman Zimmerman abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from September 1 through September 30, 2009. He distributed the
report to the Board, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

After a short discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Hade seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go
into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the cases on the agenda, pursuant to Section
2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2009). Member Hade seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Chairman
Zimmerman made a motion to leave executive session. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Zimmerman then made a motion to return to
open session. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
1.
Case No. S-CA-07-085
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 95/Village of Oak Park
Chairman Zimmerman did not participate in the deliberations or vote in this case, as the oral argument
and other discussions regarding the case took place before she joined the Board. Member Hade called
the case. After a short discussion, Member Coli moved to uphold Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Wells' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO). Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it—three in favor, none against.

 2.
Case No. S-RC-07-048
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-RC-08-074
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002 & Service
Employees International Union, Local 73/State of Illinois, Department of Central
Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. The Board unanimously agreed to hold this case for decision
until its meeting on October 15, 2009, at 9:30 a.m.
3.
Case No. S-CA-09-058
Gina P. Yurevich/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-CA-09-062
Michelle Pugh/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Coli moved to uphold ALJ Rios' RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-RD-09-003
Szmergalski et al./Park Ridge Park District/Service Employees Int'l Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Hade moved to uphold ALJ Clifford's RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-10-013
Palos Heights Fighters Association, Local 4254, International Association of Fire
Fighters/Palos Heights Fire Protection District
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-RC-09-124
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-RC-09-180
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case and moved to vacate the executive director's direction of election
and send the exclusionary issues presented to an expedited hearing. Member Coli seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CB-08-012
Leggette/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Member Washington moved to uphold the executive director's
dismissal. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

2

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board had a short discussion as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency. Staff
distributed the fiscal report, and the Board reviewed and discussed it.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of November, 2009.

3

 