STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on September 9, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD August 12, 2014

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the August 12, 2014 meeting. Member Anderson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-CB-09-066
Darryl Spratt/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut recused himself from this case and asked General Counsel Post to call the case and present the issues of
the case to the Board. General Counsel Post stated that on June 3, 2014, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Martin Kehoe
issued a recommended decision and order (RDO) dismissing a complaint for hearing filed by Charging Party alleging that
Respondent had violated Section 10(b)(1) of the Act. No party filed timely exceptions to the RDO, but there was an
outstanding motion that needed the board’s attention. Counsel Post explained that Charging Party’s counsel asked for an
extension of time to file exceptions because he had not yet communicated with his client. Deputy General Counsel Sarah
Kerley denied that motion because counsel failed to ascertain the position of the opposing party prior to filing his motion
as required by Board rules. Charging Party’s counsel then filed a new motion for an extension of time, correcting the
procedural defect by noting that the opposing party was opposed to any extension. General Counsel Post stated that he
had denied that motion because the 30-day period within which to file exceptions provides sufficient time for counsel to
communicate with his client. After his presentation, he recommended that the Board deny the motion for reconsideration.
After detailed discussion, Member Anderson moved to grant the motion for reconsideration of the extension of time of 28
days to file exceptions and Member Lewis seconded the motion. Member Anderson and Member Lewis passed the
motion by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of October, 2014.

 