STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 12, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board (participated by telephoneconference); Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
and staff members. Martin J. Kehoe, Philip M. Kazanjian, Anna Hamburg-Gal, Michelle N. Owen, Elaine
L. Tarver, and Eileen L. Bell also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MARCH 15, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman requested modifications of the draft minutes of the March 15, 2011 meeting, to
more completely reflect the Board's deliberations. After the Board discussed the proposal, Member Hade
moved to approve the minutes of the March 15, 2011 meeting, with the requested modifications thereto.
Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from March 1 to March 31, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-11-004
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kehoe reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tansino's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended
that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Hade moved to reject the
ALJ's recommendation and remand the case for hearing. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-023
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 259/Village of Roselle
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions
to ALJ Kehoe's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept in part, and reverse in part, the ALJ's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Kimbrough moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation as
written. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CB-09-005
Billy McCaskill/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
November 16, 2010, with an appeal filed. Chairman Zimmerman ascertained that there were no questions
or objections regarding Counsel Hamburg-Gal's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's
dismissal. Member Hade moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CB-10-043 and Case No. S-CB-10-045
David W. Jarvis/Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters, Local No. 792
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued dismissals on
October 25, 2010, with an appeal filed. Chairman Zimmerman ascertained that there were no questions or
objections regarding Counsel Owen's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal.
Member Hade moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-10-046
Harlow R. Brown/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 21, 2010, with an appeal filed. Chairman Zimmerman ascertained that there were no questions
or objections regarding Counsel Tarver's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal.
Member Kimbrough moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Coli seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CB-10-067
Kearon F. Sharp/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July
20, 2010, with an appeal filed. Chairman Zimmerman ascertained that there were no questions or
objections regarding Counsel Kehoe's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal.
Member Coli moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-10-156
Donald E. Blair/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July
20, 2010, with an appeal filed. Chairman Zimmerman ascertained that there were no questions or
objections regarding Counsel Bell's recommendation to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member
Hade moved to accept the Executive Director's dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
2

 agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Kimbrough made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 10th day of May, 2011.

3

 