STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 14, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board (present in the Board's Springfield office, participated by telephone-conference); Jessica
Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Deanna L. Rosenbaum and
Joseph F. Tansino also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 10, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the August 10, 2010 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from August 1 through August 31, 2010. He distributed the report
to the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-176
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Rosenbaum reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tansino's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO),
and recommended that the Board adopt the result determined by the ALJ, in its entirety. Member Coli
moved to accept Counsel Rosenbaum's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion,
and after discussion, the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-09-145
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of Streamwood
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Tansino reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Rosenbaum's RDO, and recommended that the Board reverse the ALJ's determination
and dismiss the petition. After discussion, Member Hade moved to adopt Counsel Tansino's
recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion. The motion passed with three ayes and
two nays; Members Coli and Washington dissented.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-09-188
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post, aided by Counsel Harvey's memorandum,
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and recommended that the
Board adopt the ALJ's decision. Member Washington moved to accept General Counsel Post's
recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-UC-08-460
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-RC-10-234
Laborers Int'l Union of North America, Local No. 362/Town of Normal/David Olson, et al.
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
July 30, 2010, with an appeal filed by the Objectors, David Olson, et al. General Counsel Post reviewed
the issues presented by the appeal, and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's
order. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the executive director's order. Member
Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports. After a short discussion regarding
whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was not necessary at this
time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 5th day of October, 2010.

2

 