MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
February 16, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, February 16, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Thursday, February 16, 2012 at approximately 10:00 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
Chairman Jaffe participated via telephone. At 10:05 A.M. on Thursday, February 16, 2012,
Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member
Holewinski moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:05 A.M. at which time the Board
recessed and went into open session at 10:15 A.M Present were the following: Members
Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould. Chairman Jaffe participated via
telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of January 19, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT Administrator Ostrowski stated that he and Commander Kimes toured the Casino Queen, Argosy
Alton, Rock Island and Par-A-Dice casinos for so that Commander Kimes could become familiar
with the properties. The Administrator also stated that Member Scott had resigned effective
January 31, 2012 from the Board.

 BOARD POLICY ITEMS ●

Proposed Rule Changes - Sections 3000.100 and 3000.625

Caleb Melamed gave a brief summary of the proposed rule changes.
Section 5 (b) (3) of the Riverboat Gambling Act grants to the Illinois Gaming Board both regular
and emergency rulemaking authority regarding the Riverboat Gambling Act. At the February
16, 2012 open meeting of the Board, legal staff will submit proposals to amend the Board’s
rules on riverboat gambling (86 Ill. Adm. Code 3000) for Board consideration. The proposals to
be submitted are the following:
Riverboat Gambling
Amended definition of “Electronic Gaming Device”: The definition of “Electronic Gaming
Device” in Section 100, Definitions [86 Ill. Adm. Code 3000.100] will be changed to include
multiple position devices in the following categories: reel-type, single-game video, and multigame video. Currently, the definition of “Electronic Gaming Device” only includes single
position devices in these categories. Because the Board has already approved and allowed an
Electronic Gaming Device with multiple positions, staff recommends the filing of this proposal
as an emergency rulemaking, to be effective immediately upon filing.
Chip identification: This proposal will amend Section 625 of the Riverboat Gambling Rules,
Chip Specifications [86 Ill. Adm. Code 3000.625], by requiring each chip issued by the

holder of an owners license to have permanently impressed, engraved, or imprinted upon it the
location of the Riverboat Gaming Operation. This change will make the identification
requirements for chips consistent with those for tokens. Tokens issued by, or used in, Riverboat
Gaming Operations must clearly identify their location under Section 635 of the Riverboat
Gambling Rules, Issuance and Use of Tokens and Vouchers for Gaming [86 Ill. Adm. Code
3000.635]. Staff recommends the filing of this proposal as a regular (nonemergency)
rulemaking.
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposals to amend
the Board’s rules on Riverboat Gambling, Section 3000.100 regarding definitions and
Section 3000.625 regarding Chip Specifications for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of
State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Thomas F. Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association
Good morning Chairman Jaffe, Members of the Board, Administrator Ostrowski and staff. I am
Tom Swoik, Executive Director of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association.
I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointments to the Board and you
Chairman Jaffe for your reappointment to Chairman.
The casino industry is good for Illinois!
The Illinois Casino Gaming Association began a couple of years after the first casino opened in
Illinois. Currently the Association has 6 full members and with membership of three additional
casinos we continue to support our responsible gaming activities.
My responsibilities include running the day to day operations of the Association, public
relations, administering our responsible gaming program, working with the IGB Administrator
and staff on industry issues and lobbying the State Legislature. As you can imagine over the past
ten years, the lobbying activity has taken a lot of my time.
I began by saying, the casino industry is good for Illinois, this is the message we developed
several years ago. We still believe this message. We are good for Illinois because of the jobs we
create and the employment we maintain. I have not completed the 2011 numbers yet, but
industry wide in 2010 we employed nearly 7,000 individuals, almost 53% female and over 33%
minorities.
Secondly the industry promotes economic development through taxes paid, capital
improvements and reinvestment, tourism and supplier purchases, in 2010 over 10% of our total
vendor payments were made to minority owned firms and nearly 6.5% to female owned firms.
These numbers reflect a percentage of all payments. Although we cannot control some of our
expenditures, for example, we can only purchase gaming equipment and supplies from licensed
suppliers and utilities from providers in the specific locale.
Thirdly, the industry provides community enrichment through their local share of the tax dollars,
charitable contributions including thousands of hours of volunteer work, entertainment venues
and participation in many local organizations by our staff.
Fourthly, the industry strives to maintain social responsibility through our responsible gaming
activities, community involvement and as I’ve already stated through our diversified work force
and vendors.
Finally, we are good for Illinois because we provide entertainment at a good value in a safe
environment. Since 1996 the association members have funded the problem gambling hotline
through a contract with Bensinger DuPont and Associates. Additionally, all casino staff receive
initial and continuing responsible gambling training.

3

 Finally we are good for Illinois because we provide entertainment at a good value in a safe
environment.
The Association is a member of the State Chamber of Commerce and the Illinois State Black
Chamber of Commerce. We have participated in the Black Chambers annual events over the last
3 years. The Association has participated in the Annual Chicago Minority Business Event at
Navy Pier for the past 5 years, including staffing a booth with all members purchasing agents on
site to talk to potential minority vendors.
Finally, over the past four years we have co-sponsored numerous minority female owned vendor
fairs at various casinos around the State.
I appreciate the opportunity to brief you on our organization and will be happy to answer any
questions.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Item for Initial Consideration ●

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Casino – License Renewal

A brief power point presentation was initiated by the following staff members of Boyd Gaming
Corporation:
•
•
•
•
●

Paul Chakmak - Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Chris Gibase - Senior Vice President, Operations - Midwest and South Region
Cori Rutherford – Vice President and General Manager, Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino
Joe Coe - Director Diversity
MGM Resorts International – Subsidiary Guarantor –

Paul Jenson appeared before the Board on behalf of MGM Resorts.
Items for Final Consideration ●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Albert J. Geldres - Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to
approve Albert J. Geldres, who intends to own an interest in Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC through Casino Investors, LLC.
Member Gould move pursuant to Section 235 of the Adopted Rules to approve the
corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings, LLC and the
issuance of interests to Casino Investors, LLC consistent with the financing
documents previously provided to the Board. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 ●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership (DDLP) d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino &
Hotel – Joshua J. San Salvador, Vice President of Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve Joshua J. San Salvador as an Occupational Licensee Level One
in the position of Vice President of Operations for Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel in Joliet, Illinois. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Philip Kayman, Executive
Committee – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to
approve Philip Kayman as a Key Person in his position as an Executive Committee
Member of the Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
●

Genesis Gaming Solutions, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve the renewal of Genesis Gaming Solutions, Inc.’s Supplier’s
License for a period of four years, expiring in February, 2016.
Staff further recommends the following be designated and approved as Key Persons
of Genesis Gaming Solutions, Inc.:
President; and Randall Lee Knust.
Member Vander Weele further moved that the Board approve Genesis Gaming
Solutions, Inc. to supply the following to Illinois Owner Licensees:
BRAVO Pit system; and BRAVO Poker system.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

5

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Gould moved that the Board find
suitable and approve 47 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 100
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Gould moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to
Sonya M. Dedeaux who received notice that staff intended to recommend denial of
her license application and did not provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Welle moved that the Board find Frank
D. Palmere suitable for licensing and approve his application for an Occupational
License, Level 2. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board deny the requests of the following individuals who have asked the Board for
leave to reapply for an occupational license within one year of the denial of their
application for an occupational license pursuant to Section 3000.245(f) of the
Board’s Adopted Rules:
Jerry W. Reaves, Jr.; and Neo Skywalker

Member Vander Weeele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT –
●

Requests for Hearing
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved that the following individuals’ requests for a hearing be denied based on the
fact that the individuals have offered no facts that establish a prima facie case:
Nicholas D. Conlon, Irene M. Dahlgren, Joshua M. Deamon, Tiffany L. Leonard,
Gina M. Pearson, Nicole E. Moore, Ralph W. Yarck, Eric R. Smith, Brandon D.
Jones and Roderick F. Williams, Jr. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

6

 At 11:05 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 