STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 13, 2017
I. OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.— at Capital City Training Center, 130 West Mason, Springfield, IL
II. PRESENT
John Hartnett, Chairman; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith
Snyder, Member of the Board; Kimberly Stevens, Executive Director Helen J. Kim, General Counsel; and staff
members. Pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/7(a), Board Member Michael Coli, with the
approval of a majority of the Board, participated via telephone conference call due to illness.
III. APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 16, 2017
Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the May 16, 2017 meeting. Member Nelson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV. ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Stevens to present the Executive Director’s reports. She presented the
reports and summarized the highlights.
V. BOARD ACTIONS
1. Case No. S-CB-16-023
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (State Police)/Troopers Lodge #41,
Fraternal Order of Police
Executive Director Stevens as Acting General Counsel stated that Respondent filed a Motion to Disqualify. After
discussion, Member Nelson moved to deny the Motion. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-CB-16-023
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (State Police)/Troopers Lodge #41,
Fraternal Order of Police
Executive Director Stevens as Acting General Counsel called and presented the case. After discussion, Member
Samolis moved to hold no violation of an unfair labor practice, sanctions are not warranted and that premiums,
deductibles, copay and out of pocket maximum expenses are mandatory subject of bargaining and that the procurement
process and choice of vendor is a permissive subject of bargaining. Member Coli seconded the motion. The motion
passed with four ayes and one nay; Member Snyder concurred in part and dissented in part.
3. Case No. S-CA-16-079
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 297/Chicago State University
General Counsel Kim called the case, and noted that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge HamburgGal’s Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.

 4. Case No. S-UC-16-050
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Kim stated that MAP filed a Motion for a Stay of the Illinois Labor Relations Board’s May 16, 2017
Order. After discussion, Member Nelson moved to deny the Motion. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VI. REVIEW OF PROPOSED WRITTEN DECISIONS AND ORDERS
1. Case No. S-RC-17-022
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/Illinois State Tollway Authority
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Coli made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-CA-16-137
Sharon White/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (Human ServicesMadden Mental Health Center)
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Snyder made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3. Case No. S-CA-16-128
Shaquea K. Baker/Cook County Circuit Clerk
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Snyder made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4. Case No. S-CB-16-030
Shaquea K. Baker/International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

VII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Hartnett requested that the Board to go into executive session Pursuant to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open
Meetings Act, to discuss pending litigation in matter Case No. 16 CH 15737. Member Nelson made a motion to leave
open session, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Samolis made a motion to go into
executive session, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Discussion on the pending circuit court
litigation matter ensued. At the end of the discussion, Member Samolis made a motion to leave executive session, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Snyder then made a motion to return to open session, the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

2

 VIII.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Mr. D’Alba made comments.
IX. ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Samolis moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of July, 2017.

3

 