STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on January 13, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, 10th Floor, Suite S-1001, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from the Board’s
Springfield office.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD December 16, 2014

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the December 16, 2014 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-CB-12-032-C
Wayne Harej/ Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Post to present the issues of the case to the Board. General
Counsel Post stated that this compliance case initiated after the Respondent: failed to answer a complaint issued in Case
No. L-CB-12-032; failed to file exceptions to the default Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) order; failed to file a petition
seeking review by the Appellate Court of the resulting General Counsel order noting that the ALJ’s recommendation had
become final; and allegedly failed to comply with the requirements of that order. General Counsel Post then discussed the
Charging Party’s exceptions and the Respondent’s cross-exceptions. After his presentation, General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board affirm the ALJ’s recommendation and order and reject Charging Party’s exceptions and
request for sanctions and reject Respondent’s cross-exceptions. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to affirm the
RDO, reject the Charging Party’s exceptions and the Respondent’s cross-exceptions, and grant Charging Party’s request
for sanctions. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-14-033
Ricardo Gonzalez/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
General Counsel Post called the case, and asked Counsel Kelly Coyle to present and discuss the issues of the case to the
Board. Counsel Coyle stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on September 26, 2014. The charge alleged
that the Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Act. She then presented the Charging Party’s appeal. After her
presentation, Counsel Coyle recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of February, 2015.

 