MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 13, 1996 - TELECONFERENCE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTION
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held a Special Meeting on December 13, 1996 via
telephone conference call pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et
seq.
Member Robert F. Vickrey was present with the following members participating
through a telephone conference call: Chairman J. Thomas Johnson, Members William
B. Browder; Byron G. Cudmore; and Gayl S. Pyatt.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire; Chief Counsel Mareile’ B.
Cusack; Deputy Administrators Joseph C. Haughey and Kevin Lockhart; Audit
Consultant Nick Wilke; other members of the staff; and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m. Member Pyatt moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1. Issues concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Investigatory matters;
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 2:15 p.m.
Member Vickrey moved as follows: That the Board approve the amended line of
credit between Player’s International, Inc. (“Player’s”) and its consortium banks
pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the draft agreement dated
December 5, 1996.
I further move that the Board delegate to the Administrator the authority to
approve the line of credit agreement in its final form provided the final terms of
the credit agreement are not substantially different from those set forth in the
December 5, 1996 draft credit agreement provided to the staff. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously with a roll call vote.
Special Meeting minutes
page 2

 Michael Ficaro, representing Players International and Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises thanked the Board for their efforts to act in a timely fashion to address
this matter.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:23 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Christine Takada
Executive Assistant to the Administrator

 