MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 19, 1993
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on October 19,
1993 at 10:00 A.M. The meeting was held in Room 500-C of the State of Illinois
Building, 160 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois and was held pursuant to
previous Board action in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
Board Members Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey; and, Board Members Designate
William B. Browder and J. William Roberts.
Additionally, Interim Administrator Joseph F. Mc Quaid; Deputy
Administrators J. Thomas Hutchison and Marcy L. Wolf; Chief Legal Counsel Donna
B. More; members of the media and the general public were present.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 10:00 A.M. noting and
welcoming the Board's most recent appointee, William J. Browder.
The first order of business was the approval of the minutes of previous
Board meetings.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Minutes of the Special Meeting held April 14,
1993 be approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Minutes of the Regular Meeting held May 3, 1993
be approved as corrected in two places. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Minutes of the Special Meeting held June 17, 1993
be approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the minutes of the Special Meeting held June 23, 1993
be approved as corrected in one place. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Minutes of the Special Meeting held July 14 and
15, 1993 be approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

 Mr. Vickrey moved that the minutes of the Special Meeting held July 20,
1993 be approved as submitted. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the Board's meeting schedule. The
Chairman suggested the Board adopt a procedure that would allow sufficient
opportunity for staff and member review of issues brought before the Board. The
Chairman outlined the following suggested procedure:
1.
All items appearing on the agenda for a first time would be automatically
deferred to the next subsequent meeting for action, with the exception of
Occupational Licenses and renewals, Supplier's License renewals and,
recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge;
2.
Agenda items must be submitted to the Board twenty days prior to a Board
meeting to appear on the agenda; and,
3.
To avoid excessive Special Meetings of the Board, the Board adopt a
regular monthly meeting schedule to commence in January, 1994.
The Chairman noted that the Board would retain the ability to take action
on any agenda item or other emergency matter. Members and the audience
discussed the proposal.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the procedures proposed by the
Chairman. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned revised application forms.
Quaid described proposed modifications to personal disclosure forms.

Mr. Mc

Mr. Roberts moved that the Board adopt the proposed modifications to
Personal Disclosure Form(s) 1, 2 and 3. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the status report of Elgin Riverboat
Resort.
Mr. Dan Azark appeared on behalf of the applicant. He told the Board that
ground had been broken for the project and that operations were expected to
commence during October 1994. He also told the Board that the project plan had
been changed to construct a three level parking garage instead of the originally
proposed land level parking lot. Mr. Vickrey requested the applicant to be
prepared to discuss ingress and egress from the parking facility at the next
meeting of the Board. In response to questions, Mr. Azark stated that with
regard to published reports, Elgin Riverboat Resort was not the subject of
pending litigation. The Chairman instructed Elgin Riverboat Resorts to submit
written monthly status reports as required by Rule 3000.230 (d).
The next order of business were status reports of licensees.
called Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation.

The Chairman

 Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney for the licensee, appeared and requested the
Board to approve a change of name for the corporation to Par-a-dice Gaming
Corporation. He also told the Board that a new $20 million replacement cruise
ship was under construction.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board approve the request of Greater Peoria
Riverboat Corporation to change their identity to Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
There was further discussion concerning recent elections of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation. The Chairman deferred the subject to a future
meeting of the Board. The Chairman also requested that the Corporation submit
suggestions concerning standards for licensees to meet in avoiding cruise
disruptions. (The Chairman requested all licensees to submit proposals.) There
was no further discussion. The Chairman requested staff submit an analysis
concerning reciprocity of Occupational Licenses for discussion at the next
regular meeting.
The Chairman next recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.
Mr. Kevin Larson appeared on behalf of the licensee and told the Board
that their second vessel, Empress II, was expected to commence operations during
December, 1993. He also briefed the Board on the progress of Empress Palace.
Mr. Larson requested the Board approve the transfer of the investment of owner
William McEnery to a revocable grantor trust. Mr. Orville Larson, attorney for
Mr. McEnery, appeared to respond to questions.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the request of William J. McEnery to transfer his
investment of 1,527,778 shares of Argosy Gaming Company stock and 200 shares of
Empress River Casino Corporation stock to a living trust in which Mr. McEnery is
the sole trustee and sole beneficiary be approved. Mr. Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Larson asked the Board for an interpretation of the statutory 1200
gaming participant provision in anticipation of Empress II. The Chairman
deferred the matter to the next regular meeting. There was no further
discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Argosy Gaming Company.
Mr. Joseph Uram, Chief Financial Officer, appeared on behalf of the
licensee. He described the efforts and actions of Argosy Gaming Company to
remain operational during the recent flood in Alton and noted that the Alton
Belle II had not canceled any scheduled cruises. Mr. Uram presented a request
for Board approval of a new member of Argosy's Board of Directors. The Chairman
deferred consideration of the request. There was no further discussion.
The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino Aurora.
Mr. William Weidner appeared on behalf of the licensee. He described
start up efforts of the enterprise and noted that after launching of their two
vessels, significant alterations of the engine plant cooling system were

 necessary which he attributed to a lack of sea trials. Mr. Weidner also noted
that lower than expected river levels had been experienced forcing disruption of
a number of scheduled cruises. He stated, however, that Hollywood had
undertaken efforts to acquire appropriate dredging permits to eliminate the
problem and noted that during the past 45 days, 74% of their cruise schedule had
been met. Ms. Pyatt requested Hollywood Casino Aurora submit monthly reports
concerning cruise frequency, dredging projects and relocation of existing power
lines.
Mr. Roberto Rivera-Soto, attorney for the licensee, appeared and requested
approval of a new proposed financial structure. The Chairman deferred the
request pending staff review and analysis.
The Chairman next recognized Harrah's Joliet.
Mr. Tim Wilmott, General Manager, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
told the Board that construction of the permanent docksite pavilion would be
completed by November, 1993 and that Harrah's second vessel, Southern Star, was
expected to be operational during December, 1993.
Mr. Bill Thistle, attorney for the licensee, requested a ruling from the
Board concerning an employee of Harrah's. The question sought to determine
whether an employee of a licensee, whose compensation was determined on the
basis of anticipated wagering of patrons should be considered a junketeer
requiring a Suppliers License. It was noted that the Act prohibited the holder
of an Owners License from also holding a Suppliers License. The matter was
deferred.
Mr. Thistle also requested Board approval for an additional member of
Harrah's Board of Directors. In absence of a completed background
investigation, the request was deferred.
There was no further discussion.
Ms. Pyatt moved that pursuant to 5 ILCS 120, that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss personnel issues including the search for an
Administrator and a request by the Interim Administrator concerning employee
reviews for certain Board employees, reports of the Administrative Law Judge,
reports for Supplier and Occupational licenses, and to discuss any pending
investigations. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 12:35 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 2:20 P.M.
Chairman Johnson, and Members Browder, Pyatt, Roberts and Vickrey were in
attendance.
The first order of business concerned release of information requested
under the Freedom of Information Act, (FOIA). Ms. More discussed a recent
denial of a request for information that is available in other jurisdictions.
Ms. More stated that the denial was based on an exemption in FOIA regarding
information that could cause competitive harm. She noted that Illinois
licensees oppose release of information disclosing payout percentages of
electronic gaming devices by denomination. The Chairman instructed staff to

 draft a proposal, that would make the requested information public, for
discussion at the next meeting. The Chairman encouraged input from licensees.
The next order of business concerned a request received from Par-a-dice
for the Board to approve the use of strategy cards.
In absence of a representative from Par-a-dice, Mr. Roberts moved to table
the request. The motion failed due to lack of a second. The Chairman deferred
further consideration and requested staff to analyze the request.
The next order of business concerned card counting. Staff had requested
licensees to provide criteria used to identify patrons involved in card
counting. The Chairman deferred the matter and asked staff to analyze
information submitted by licensees.
The next order of business concerned entertainment offered by Illinois
licensees. Mr. Mc Quaid noted that Players Riverboat Casino had advertised
entertainment that was subsequently cancelled and that staff was of the opinion
that rulemaking was not required to regulate entertainment.
The next order of business was Supplier Licensing.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Suppliers License of Greate Bay Casino
Corporation be renewed. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Suppliers License of Bally Gaming, Inc. be
renewed. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the application received from Ms. Kathleen J.
Steele to be Chief Executive Officer for Nevada Dice Company be approved. Ms.
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational License, Level 1.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Tracy A. Babbitt to be Vice President of Operational Analysis for
Siver Eagle Casino be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Cynthia A. Borkowski to be Senior Internal Auditor for Hollywood
Casino - Aurora be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

 Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Erwen A. Brausam to be Manager of Surveillance for Hollywood
Casino - Aurora be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved
received from Andrew J.
Harrah's Casino Cruises
The Chairman called for

that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
Duggan to be Director of Finance and Administration for
- Joliet be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
the yeas and nays.

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Thomas P. Halt to be Technical Systems Manager for Harrah's Casino
Cruises - Joliet be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Raymond Mace to be Director of Surveillance for Casino Rock Island
be denied. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Shakeel A. Siddiqi to be Assistant General Manager for Silver
Eagle Casino be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approve unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Walter J. Stachnik to be Slot Manager for Alton Belle Casino be
approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Occupational License, Level 1 application
received from Robert A. Farinella to be General Manager for Casino Rock Island
be approved. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board accept the staff report with respect to
recommended approval of applications received for Occupational License, levels 2
& 3. It was noted that staff recommended approval of 1476 level 2 applications
and 1746 level 3 applications. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

 Mr. Roberts moved that the Board accept the staff report with respect to
recommended denial of applications received for Occupational License, levels 2 &
3. It was noted that staff recommended denial of 10 level 2 applications and 20
level 3 applications. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
were read into the recorded record.)

(Those persons denied

The next order of business concerned reports of the Administrative Law
Judge.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the request to withdraw from administrative review
received from Sue Ann Cerbe be granted leave of the Board. Mr. Roberts seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
Leave was granted unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the finding of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation
of the Administrative Law Judge, deny the application for an Occupational
License for Larry Mitchell. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the finding of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation
of the Administrative Law Judge, approve the application for an Occupational
License for Philip Dettmering. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned New Business.
The Chairman reported that the Board had approved an advertisement for the
position of Administrator that was to be placed in various news publications.
He also noted that the Board had discussed salary adjustments for executive
staff of the Board.
The next item of discussion concerned review of existing Board rules.
Chairman instructed staff to begin a review, as time allowed, and make
recommendations as to the adequacy of existing rules of the Board.

The

The next item of discussion concerned Transfer of Ownership. The
Chairman noted that significant ownership changes are occurring and instructed
staff to review, analyze and suggest appropriate rulemaking.
The Chairman announced that the Board had determined to hold a Regular
Meeting of the Board on December 2, 1993 in Chicago, Illinois beginning at 10:00
A.M. He noted that the Board would set their regular monthly meeting schedule
at that time.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Browder
moved the Board stand adjourned. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion.
Without objection, the Board adjourned at 3:02 P.M.

 Respectfully submitted,

 

James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

