Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: September 20, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., MPH
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Juan M. Calderon
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: September 20th, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:06 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: August 2017 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita reported the following:
DACA
Commissioner Morita continues to be disheartened by the cruel and unjust treatment of our young
undocumented Americans, our DREAMERS. This administration's decision to revoke the limited
protections they received under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals is unconscionable. The
City of Chicago remains committed to protecting immigrants, in particular dreamers. I am proud to
have the Chicago Board of Health endorse CDPH’s “All Are Welcome Here” campaign, which
communicates our commitment to provide access to health services for all Chicagoans regardless
of immigration status. We will continue to be informed and work together across departments to
prioritize and serve all residents with the greatest need, DREAMERS included.
Affordable Care Act
Just last week CDPH learned that Chicago hit another record in our ongoing efforts to increase
health access for Chicago residents. Today, only 9.6% of our residents do not have health
insurance. This progress is a result of the Affordable Care Act and the hard work of so many local
groups ensuring residents take full advantage of the law. On Tuesday, September 26th
Commissioner Morita will be in DC to speak with congress issues related to infrastructure—
human capital and systems with a focus on emergency preparedness, response, and recovery.
Salmonella Outbreak
CDPH investigators recently identified an outbreak of salmonella, linked it to Best BBQ in
Morgan Park and confirmed 16 cases including eight hospitalizations and one death. Testing of
suspected food items demonstrated Salmonella on cooked rib tips and multiple food handlers
tested positive for the disease. The restaurant has been reopened and our team will continue to
work closely with owners to ensure that food handling and storage practices are used.
Preparedness Drill
This summer our emergency preparedness team responded to a situation where an inmate at Cook
County Jail made potentially credible threats related to bioterrorism. Their work included
coordinating information sharing and planning between local, state and federal law enforcement
and health experts. After the threat was systematically evaluated, it was determined no active
public health intervention was required. However, their response and efficacy in coordinating
agencies demonstrates the value of CDPH’s standardized approach to potential health threats.
West Nile Virus
This has been a mild WNV season requiring limited adulticide spraying. (South Deering and
Pullman). To date, two Chicago residents have been confirmed to have contracted West Nile virus
this season. As the mosquito season is coming to an end, the risk of human West Nile virus
infection in the City of Chicago continues to decrease; however we are still encouraging residents
to take precautions against getting mosquito bites. Surveillance crews will continue to monitor and
test on a weekly basis throughout the rest of the month of September.

2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: September 20th, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Flu Shot
On September 25th CDPH will launch its annual campaign, “Love the City, Hate the Flu” to
encourage residents to get their flu shot, including print and digital ads, and our Flu Clinics Finder.
We will host clinics in all 50 wards and city hall, including aldermanic offices and Chicago Police
Departments. This year we will launch a new partnership with the Chicago Parks which will offer
200 Park Points to residents who receive their vaccination.
Recovery Walk
On Saturday, September 16th Commissioner Morita and staff participated in CDPH’s 14th annual
Walk for Recovery, we are still finalizing the numbers but it might be the largest one to date.
CDPH collaborates with local, state, federal and non-profit partners to celebrate the
accomplishments of Chicago’s substance use treatment and recovery community. The event
consists of an array of guest speakers, a 3-mile walk, in Garfield Park and through surrounding
neighborhoods. The day was concluded with a final event, Recovery Olympics which includes
games, competition and activities in celebration of Chicago’s recovery community.
Getting to Zero Plan
Yesterday, Commissioner Morita joined partners from the AIDS Foundation of Chicago and the
Chicago Black Gay Men’s Caucus to formally unveil the framework for a new collaborative
initiative with CDPH, The Illinois Department of Public Health and 10 local community
organizations and hospitals to reach zero new HIV diagnoses in 10 years. Scientific modeling
suggests that by increasing the use of PrEP, the pill that if taken daily can reduce the risk of
becoming infected with HIV by more than 90 percent and also increasing adherence to HIV
treatment for people living with the disease, HIV in Chicago will reach a point where it can no
longer sustain itself, or “functional zero.”
Helene Gayle
Commissioner Morita was very happy announce the selection of longtime social sector leader
Helene Gayle appointed President and CEO of Chicago Community Trust the Chicago Community
Trust.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez commented that current politics is like playing
with water – whatever progress you’ve made is washed out but we must persist to do the right
thing for the well-being the community.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
ACA repeal
U.S. Senators are again seeking to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This time their deadline is
September 30th because that’s the deadline set by the Senate parliamentarian for using budget
reconciliation, a process where only a majority vote is needed and a bill can’t be filibustered. (It’s
the end of the fiscal year.) The bill is known as Graham (SC) - Cassidy (LA). It would eliminate
the individual and employer mandate as well as the medical device tax; turn Medicaid and the
exchanges into state block grants that are cut deeply over time; and allow states to change the rules
as they like, including eliminating the requirement that insurers cover people with preexisting
conditions. It may again come down to a single vote.

3

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: September 20th, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
ACA enrollment
Meanwhile, CDPH is preparing for this year’s open enrollment effort for the ACA. The Trump
administration has abridged it to a month and a half, from the previous three months. But we will
conduct vigorous outreach to enroll as many uninsured Chicagoans as possible. As Dr. Morita said,
Chicago’s uninsured rate is at a record low, and we will build on that progress.
Fly dumping
CDPH and the Mayor have introduced an ordinance to raise fines on fly dumping, when
companies leave massive amounts of waste on public or private property to avoid proper cleanup.
It can be construction debris or barrels of hazardous material. Fly dumping can threaten
environmental health by attracting rats, creating a breeding ground for mosquitoes carrying West
Nile Virus, and polluting the land, air, and water. The City is also installing cameras in numerous
spots where fly dumping is common. The measure will reduce the burden on the City due to lower
cleanup costs and time spent going after violators.
Good Food Purchasing Policy
CDPH and the Mayor have also introduced a resolution to have Chicago adopt the Good Food
Purchasing Policy to ensure city departments’ procurement of food promotes nutrition and
environmental sustainability, including a preference for locally grown food. DFSS, for instance,
purchases a significant amount of food for clients. CDPH aims to foster a better food system
throughout the supply chain. Sister agencies such as CPS and the Park District are also moving in
this direction.
Town Halls
CDPH finished their series of town halls on healthy kids, using the Board’s feedback earlier in the
summer to revamp our presentation. We held events in high-hardship neighborhoods including
West Pullman, Brighton Park, Eastside, and West Garfield Park. As you may recall, CDPH raised
issues including lead, paid parental leave, being a trauma-informed City, fast food meals marketed
to children and an HPV vaccine for children. CDPH received excellent feedback and thoughts
from residents and are now analyzing them to help inform our work.
Pharma rep license
CDPH now has more than 1,000 drug reps licensed, which means we are successfully bringing
them into the new regulatory apparatus in Chicago, which will help ensure accountability and
continuing education while freeing up revenue for opioid addiction treatment.
Presentation: “Getting to Zero-HIV Transformation,” Dave Kern, Deputy Commissioner, CDPH
HIV/STI Bureau
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:32 a.m.

Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, October 18, 2017, 9:00 a.m.
4

 