MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
November 8, 2001
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on November 8, 2001.
The Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Gregory Jones, Chairman; and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, and Tobias Barry. Member Robert Mariano was present
telephonically.
Also in attendance were: Interim Administrator Thomas Swoik , Deputy Administrators
Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, and James Wagner, Deputy Chief Legal Counsel
Jeannette Tamayo, and other members of the staff.
The meeting convened at 8:15 A.M. Member Higginbottom moved that Pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11) and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, I move that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.

Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent, and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 9:10 P.M.
Chairman Jones introduced new Board member Judge Tobias Barry who Governor Ryan
appointed on November 2, 2001. Chairman Jones stated that one seat on the Board has to be
filled by a lawyer. Chairman Jones stated that former member Stuart Levine was a lawyer
and his spot had to be filled by a lawyer. Chairman Jones stated that Governor Ryan filled
the position with a distinguished lawyer, Tobias Barry. Chairman Jones stated that from 1974
to 1993 Judge Barry served as an Appellate Court Justice in the 3rd Judicial Circuit, prior to
that, Judge Barry was a member of the Illinois House of Representative from 1960 to 1974,
and is now in private practice in the area of arbitration and mediation. Chairman Jones stated
that the Board and staff appreciate having Member Barry and his wealth of experience and
background as a judge, a lawyer, and as a mediator which will be very useful to the Board.

 Chairman Jones announced that former Administrator, Sergio Acosta received an award on
behalf of the IGB staff from the Chicago Crime Commission on Tuesday evening. Chairman
Jones stated that it is a great reflection on the staff and the kind of work that they have done.
Chairman Jones read a letter from Mr. Acosta which express how proud he was to have
received the award, and his gratitude towards staff. Chairman Jones read the inscription on
the plaque and stated that Mr. Acosta graciously wanted to transmit the plaque over to the
Gaming Board’s office to be placed on the wall in recognition of the staff’s work and
support. Chairman Jones also announced that Deputy Administrator of Investigations, James
Wagner, received an award for his distinctions and investigations with both the FBI and the
Gaming Board. Chairman Jones stated he appreciates the job that Mr. Wagner has done for
the Gaming Board.
Member Higginbottom moved that Philip C. Parenti be hired as the Administrator of the
Illinois Gaming Board effective November 16, 2001 to serve at the discretion of the
Board and receive compensation in the amount of $13,333 per month plus expenses.
Member Rogal seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (1), (11) and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section
6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Rogal moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
The Board reconvened to Closed session at 9:20 A.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica L. Thomas
Secretary to the Board

 