STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on January 10, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Paul S. Besson, Member of the State Panel; James Q. Brennwald, Member
of the State Panel; Michael G. Coli, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of the State Panel; Robert
M. Gierut, Local Panel Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Local Panel; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of
the Local Panel; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the December 6, 2011 meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS

The Board approved the meeting dates for the 2012 calendar year. The Local Panel meetings will begin at 10:00 a.m. and
the State Panel meetings will follow at 11:00 a.m. on the following dates: January 10; February 7; March 6; April 12;
May 15; June 12; July 10; August 14; September 11; October 11; November 15; and December 11. The Board
considered the following proposed backup meeting dates for 2012, with the Local Panel meetings to begin at 10:00 a.m.
and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.: January 12; February 9; March 8; May 17; June 14; July 12; August
16; September 13; and December 13. Member Besson moved to approve the 2012 board meeting dates. Member
Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

LEGISLATIVE/FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Brosnan noted that there were no legislative issues to report. He then presented the fiscal report,
reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. The Board then discussed and questioned
various aspects of the fiscal report.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel/hiring
matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session.
Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then
made a motion to return to open session. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of May, 2012.

 