Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
August 2, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on August
1, 2018, in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a quorum
was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Legal Counsel Jared Smith, Acting Legal Counsel Richard Harlovic, Deputy AdministratorInvestigations Scott Deubel, Deputy Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski,
Financial Audit Unit Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Office
Manager and Acting Secretary to the Board Alicia Passfield, Deputy Administrator-Enforcement
Frank Spizzirri, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Investigations Squad Supervisor
Gabriel Aragones and Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 1:12 PM. The Board’s Acting Secretary verified
that no one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.
Chairman Tracy reminded all in attendance that the September Board meetings will be held on
Thursday September 13, 2018 at 11:30 am and Friday September 14, 2018 at 9:00 am.
At 1:15 PM, Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the
Board discussed matters referenced in the closed session agenda.
At 1:24 PM, Member Robinson moved to adjourn the Riverboat closed session meeting and
return to open session. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 1:25 PM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open to August 2, 2018 at 9:00 AM.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

 The Board reconvened in Open Session on Thursday, August 2, 2018 at 9:03 am on the 5th floor
of the Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the
following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins and Hector Alejandre.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of June 13, 2018. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS
The Chairman asked that Gene O’Shea give a brief verbal presentation on the Self-Exclusion
Program at the Board’s September Board meeting. The Chairman also announced that the
September Board meetings will be September 13, 2018 and September 14, 2018.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration
•
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Eldorado Resorts, Inc. – Request
for Initial Consideration of Financing Transactions.
•
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel and
Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino – Caesars
Entertainment Corporation – Request for Initial Consideration of Financing Transaction.
Final Consideration
•

HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Owners License Renewal

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the request by HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet to renew its Owners License for a period of four years retroactively to
July 2018, expiring in July 2022, and find the following persons and entities suitable as Key
Persons of the licensee:
Timothy J. Wilmott
Jay A. Snowden
John V. Finamore
Todd M. George
Richard Primus
Shamira Mavany
Jason Taylor
Penn National Gaming, Inc.
Penn Tenant, LLC
Penn National Holdings, LLC; and

2

 CRC Holdings, Inc.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Request for Final Consideration for
Transfer of Ownership Interest in Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino to
Eldorado Resorts, Inc. through its buyer purchasing subsidiaries, Elgin Holdings I LLC and
Elgin Holdings II LLC
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve the transfer of ownership interest in Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino from MGM Elgin Sub, Inc. and Illinois RBG,
LLC to Elgin Holdings I LLC and Elgin Holdings II LLC, buyer purchasing subsidiaries of
Eldorado Resorts, Inc., as set forth in the Interest Purchase Agreement dated April 15, 2018, the
transaction to close at a date mutually agreed to by the buyer and seller and approved by the
Administrator. This transfer approval is subject to the final executed documents being provided
to the Illinois Gaming Board and the Administrator’s determination that the terms and conditions
are materially consistent with those originally disclosed to the Board. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Request for Waiver of TwoMeeting Rule and Request for Final Consideration of Financing Transaction
Member Robinson moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule and approve the terms of
Eldorado Resorts, Inc.’s existing $1.75 billion Credit Facility, $875 million 6% Senior
Unsecured Notes, and $375 million 7% Unsecured Notes, including the addition of Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino as a subsidiary guarantor of, and the pledge of
certain collateral in connection with, such debt. She further moved that the Board approve
Eldorado Resorts, Inc.’s request to issue up to $1 billion in the form of notes not to exceed 7%,
and include Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino as a subsidiary guarantor of
same, with the proceeds to be used in the following manner (i) $600 million in connection with
merger between Eldorado Resorts, Inc. and Tropicana and (ii) up to $400 million to repay other
existing corporate debt. Approvals are subject to final documentation being provided to the
Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and subject to revocation if the Administrator determines
that the terms and conditions are not materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Suitability of Key Persons

Member Dolins moved that the Board find suitable the following individuals, Business Entities,
Trust and Institutional Investor, as Key Persons of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria
Casino:
Anthony L. Carano
Cindy L. Carano
Gary L. Carano
Gene R. Carano

3

 Glenn T. Carano
Gregg R. Carano
Rhonda K. Carano
John J. Frankovich
Edmund L. Quatmann, Jr.
Thomas R. Reeg
Eldorado Resorts, Inc.
Recreational Enterprises, Inc.
Elgin Holding I LLC
Elgin Holdings II LLC
The Donald L. Carano Family Trust
FMR, LLC
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – David S. Krasn – Vice
President of Internal Audit – Key Person
Member Dolins moved that the Board find David S. Krasn suitable as a Key Person for Par-ADice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino, in his position as Vice President of
Internal Audit for Boyd Gaming Corporation. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•
Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino and
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel – Susan
Carletta – Senior Vice President, Chief Regulatory and Compliance Officer, and Deputy General
Counsel – Key Person
Member Alejandre moved that the Board find Susan Carletta suitable as a Key Person for both
Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino, and Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel, in her positions
as Senior Vice President, Chief Regulatory and Compliance Officer, and Deputy General
Counsel for Caesars Entertainment Corporation. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
•
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Jonathan D. Eilian – Manager of Des Plaines Development Holdings, LLC and Partial Owner of
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership – Key Person
In light of Mr. Jonathan D. Eilian’s request for consideration as a Key Person as a manager of
Des Plaines Development Holdings, but with no request for waiver of the two meeting rule on
that issue, and in further acknowledgment that at the prior meeting the Board expressly denied a
request for waiver of the two meeting rule in regards to a related request for a finding of
suitability for transfer for Mr. Eilian, Member Dolins moved that the Board table both the
finding of suitability for transfer as well as approval of Mr. Eilian as a Key Person as a manager
until the September meeting, such that both issues may be jointly decided without violation of

4

 the two meeting rule. A supplement to the motion was made noting that the Licensee did not
make the above-mentioned requests and the matter was not properly noticed for the August
agenda. Member Alejandre seconded the motion as supplemented. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved that the Board find suitable and approve 117 Level 2 occupational
licenses and 192 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:
•
•
•
•
•

Douglas Lima
Stanislaus Pasieka
Marquett Kelley
Carl Edward Williams
Sheila Guerrant

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Requests for Hearing & Requests to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the request for a hearing submitted by Mr.
Demeco Dontez Richardson. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the Occupational License of Jamie Lee Lamb. Member
Robinson seconded the motion.
ADJOURN:
Member Robinson moved to adjourn. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Richard P. Harlovic, Assistant General Counsel

5

 