MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 11, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on March 11, 2004 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom, Members Violet
Clark, Gary Peterlin and William Fanning. Member William Dugan was present
telephonically.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the March 11, 2004 Regular Meeting at 10:06 A.M. in the
3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s (March 11, 2004) agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:45 P.M. Member Dugan was not present for the
Open session portion of the meeting.
Minutes
Member Peterlin moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of February 5, 2004, Special Meetings of February 3, 2004, February 19, 2004,
February 23, 2004, and February 25, 2004. Member Fanning seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that on March 10, 2004, several Board members and
Staff were present to monitor the auction of the Emerald Casino license. Chairman

 Higginbottom stated that at the conclusion of the bidding process, the following bid offeres
were submitted:
Harrah’s – Waukegan - offered $520 million dollars and promised to open the casino within
12 months after receiving the Board’s approval.
Isle of Capri – Rosemont - offered $518 million dollars and promised to open the casino
within eight months after receiving the Board’s approval.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that both Harrah’s and Isle of Capri indicated that they would
pay a late fee of $500,000 per day up to $105 million dollars for every day that they were
delayed in opening a casino from the proposed date.
Midwest Gaming – Des Plaines – offered $476 million dollars.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that the bids were very well thought out and the process was
completely open and very competitive. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he feels that the
process would ultimately yield the maximum benefit to the citizens of the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom announced that on Monday, March 15, 2004, the Board would meet
to review the offers and attempt to identify a winning bid. Chairman Higginbottom stated
that there are a number of factors that must be considered in addition to price, and with the
closeness of the bids, the responsible thing for the Board to do is take into consideration all
of those factors.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that this is not a simple process. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the bidders were very sophisticated and the Board owes it to the taxpayers of the
State of Illinois to make sure that it thoroughly analyzes each bid to ensure that the citizens
are getting the best deal possible.
Chairman Higginbottom commended Staff for all of their hard work on the sales process.
Member Peterlin thanked Staff for all of their hard work.
Member Peterlin stated that Staff will have a lot more work and challenges ahead of them
once the license is up and running. Member Peterlin stated that Staff is very competent,
dedicated and qualified and it is very important that the integrity of the Staff is maintained as
they go forward in the process. Member Peterlin urged those who are in a position to
provide Staff with the resources it needs to complete its job to commit themselves to doing
so.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that the Closed Session minutes have been tabled
until the next Regular Board meeting.
2

 Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that there is a new General Manager at Harrah’s
Casino, Joliet. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Joe Domenico requested to be
present to introduce himself to the Board members. Interim Administrator stated that Staff
would be making an appointment to meet with Mr. Domenico individually.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that on Tuesday (March 9, 2004), Staff received final
approvals to assign the gaming laboratories that would be responsible for TITO throughout
the State. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that GLI has been assigned TITO systems to
Hollywood Casino, Harrah’s Joliet, Harrah’s Metropolis, and Par-A-Dice Casino. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that BMN North America d/b/a BMN Test Labs has been
assigned TITO systems to Casino Queen, Alton Belle Casino and Empress Casino. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that GGS U.S. Ltd. has been assigned to Grand Victoria Casino
and Casino Rock Island. Interim Administrator stated that Staff is still working towards an
April 1st implementation date.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that while it is no longer a requirement, Staff has
received a number of operational updates from some of the casinos. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that Staff appreciates the operational updates and are including the
information in the Board packets.
Public Commentary
William P. Schwarzkopf, National Council on Problem Gambling, was present to announce
that March 8 – 14 has been designated as National Problem Gambling Awareness Week.
Mr. Schwarzkopf stated that there is not enough research to determine the cause or cures for
problem gambling, nor is there sufficient treatment available for those that need it. Mr.
Schwarzkopf stated that there is not enough public awareness about help for compulsive
gamblers and their families. Mr. Schwarzkopf stated that when everyone speaks of the
revenues that will be generated from the 10th license, what often is not heard is that much of
these revenues come from the losses of people that cannot afford the money and cannot
afford the entertainment.
Mr. Schwarzkopf stated that during the week of March 8 – 14, communities nationwide will
work to raise awareness of the consequences of problem gambling and the resources
available for individuals whose gambling is causing disruption in their lives.
Mr. Schwarzkopf provided the Board and the public with a toll-free number for compulsive
gamblers who are seeking help.
Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association, was present to discuss
how the casino industry is good for the State of Illinois. Mr. Swoik stated that a study
conducted by the University of Illinois in 2003 discloses that in 2001 the casino industry
spent over $184 million dollars on goods and services provided by vendors located in the
3

 State of Illinois. Mr. Swoik stated that based on the studies, the purchases had a total impact
on the State’s economy of over $706 million dollars. Mr. Swoik stated that additionally over
11,000 non-casino jobs were created as a result of these impacts.
Mr. Swoik introduced John Majchrowicz, Linz Meats and Mike Hutson, Express Dry
Cleaning, who are two vendors that provide goods and services to the casinos.
Mr. Majchrowicz and Mr. Hutxon were present to discuss the impacts that the industry has
had on their business, the impact that last year’s tax increase has had on their businesses, and
how they are hopeful that relief is on the way.
Mr. Swoik stated that by the end of the month, the Illinois Casino Gaming Association
anticipates having its Illinois Coordinated Vendor List, which would be made available to all
of the members of ICGA.

Owner Licensee Items
HARRAH’S CASINO METROPOLIS – BRENT E. WILLITS – DIRECTOR OF SLOT
OPEARATIONS – LEVEL ONE – Thomas Thanas, Attorney, was present on behalf of
Brent E. Willits to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Brent E. Willits, as an Occupational Licensee, Level 1 in his
capacity as Director of Slot Operations at Harrah’s Casino in Metropolis, Illinois.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE GAMING CORPORATION – LICENSE RENEWAL - Donna More,
Attorney, and Keith Smith, Chief Operating Officer for Boyd Gaming Corporation , were
present on behalf of Par-A-Dice to request approval for license renewal.
Mr. Smith provided the Board with a brief statement expressing how Par-A-Dice has become
a very important part of Boyd Gaming Corporation.
Member Peterlin asked what Mr. Smith what predictions he has in regards to the average
salary for Par-A-Dice’s employees in the future.
Mr. Smith stated that Boyd Gaming Corporation conducts salary surveys amongst the
industry, the competitors, and the local community every year. Mr. Smith stated that Boyd
Gaming Corporation gives its employees raises every year to remain competitive and
because they work hard and do a good job.

4

 Member Fanning stated that as he looked at Boyd’s balance sheet from 2002-2003, he
noticed the changes in the working capital. Member Fanning asked how the change came
about and if it is a trend.
Mr. Ellis Landau, Chief Financial Officer of Boyd Gaming, stated that on the last two days
of 2002, Boyd issued a public note offering and took in a lot of cash. Mr. Landau stated that
Boyd was not able to repay bonds until the first month of 2003. Mr. Landau stated that there
was a lot of cash in the balance sheet, but it was there until the other bonds could be brought
in, which was done in 2003. Mr. Landau stated that the numbers for calendar year 2003 are
more typical numbers of Boyd’s working capital.
Chairman Higginbottom asked if Boyd’s expansion plans have been shared with Staff.
Mr. Smith stated that the expansion plans are not complete. Mr. Smith stated that there has
been discussions regarding the expansion internally and a few drawings, but nothing to the
point where it could be made public.
Mr. Smith stated that with a different tax structure, Par-A-Dice would absolutely be
interested in expansion.
Member Fanning moved that the Board waive the two meeting requirement of Board
Rule 3000.105(e) and permit Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation to present for Board
approval its request for license renewal. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Fanning moved that the
Board approve the renewal of the Owner’s License of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation
for a term of 4 years expiring March, 2008. Staff recommends that the Board formally
designate Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation to provide the following entities, persons,
and positions as Key Persons of the licensee:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Boyd Gaming Corporation;
President;
Director;
Vice President of Operations;
Vice President of Internal Audit;
William S. Boyd;
Donald D. Snyder;
Keith E. Smith;
Paula E. Eylar; and
David B. Daley

Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

5

 Supplier Licensees
MIKOHN GAMING CORPORATION – RUSSEL MCMEEKIN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER AND PRESIDENT – KEY PERSON
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Russel McMeekin as a Key Person of Mikohn Gaming
Corporation. Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve 28 applications for an Occupational License, at Level 2, and 136 applications
for an Occupational License at Level 3.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board direct the Interim Administrator to issue
notices of denial to the following three applicants for level 3 licenses, each of who
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut the recommendation:
1.
2.
3.

Delarren Mason;
Ronald Maple; and
Pamela Burick.

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• In re the Disciplinary Action of Samuel Arias-Tellos a/k/a Carlos Merino
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Fanning moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Samuel Arias-Tellos, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to Samuel Arias-Tellos fraudulently obtaining a
gaming badge on July 24, 2001 through the use of false identification.
Further, Member Fanning moved that the Board revoke Samuel Arias-Tellos’
Occupational License issued under the name Carlos Merino. Said action will take
affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
answer within that time period.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.

6

 • In re the Disciplinary Action of Bradley Kupris
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the
Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Bradley Kupris, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and Board’s Adopted
Rules in relation to his conviction for the theft related offense of deceptive practices.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Bradley Kupris’ Occupational
License. Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an answer within that time period.
Member Fanning seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
• In re the Disciplinary Action of Pam Underwood
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the
Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Pamela Underwood, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and The
Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to theft from her employer, the Alton Belle Casino.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Pamela Underwood’s
Occupational License. Said action will take affect 21 days from the date of service of
this complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Fanning moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a
Grand Victoria Casino, an Owner Licensee, for violating the Riverboat Gambling Act,
the Board’s Adopted Rules and its ICS.
Further, Member Fanning moved that the Board fine Grand Victoria Casino $60,000.00.
The aforementioned action will take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service
of the complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Administrative Hearing/ALJ Reports

7

 • In re the Disciplinary Action of Kimberly R. Johnson, No. DC-02-14
Based on a thorough review of the record and report of proceedings and evidence before
Administrative Law Judge Vickie Gillio in the Matter of Kimberly R. Johnson, DC-02-14,
Member Peterlin move that the Board adopt and issue a Final Order revoking Kimberly
Johnson’s Level 2 Occupational License as the Board’s Final Administrative Decision
in this matter.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board direct the Administrator to provide a
copy of the Board’s Final Order to the parties and the ALJ, and include therein a
notice to Ms. Johnson of her right to appeal the Board’s Final Order to the circuit court
within 35 days from the date said Final Order is served.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 2:35 P.M., Member Clark moved that pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11),
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 3:30 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

8

 