Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Special Investment Meeting – Regular Minutes

October 5, 2017
9:00 AM
Office of the Fund

 Date of Meeting:

October 5, 2017

Start Time:

9:14 a.m.

Location:

The Fund Office, 321 N. Clark Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60654

The following were Present:
Victor Roa
Erin Keane
Michael LoVerde
Kurt Summers
Carol Hamburger
James Capasso, Jr.
James Joiner
Graham Grady
Kweku Obed
Gregg Leonberger
Neil Capps
Michael Walsh
Peggy Grabowski
John Carroll
Sheila Jones
Nadia Oumata

- President
- Vice President (arrived at 9:16 am)
- Secretary
- Trustee (arrived at 9:38 am)
- Trustee
- Trustee
- Trustee
- Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP, Fund’s Attorney
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Executive Director and Chief Investment Officer
- Comptroller
- Compliance Administrator
- Administrative Coordinator
- Manager of Accounting and Investments

Absent:

- Trustee

Carole Brown

A special meeting of the Retirement Board (“Board”) of the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago was held in the Fund office on October 5, 2017. President Roa
declared there was a quorum after Secretary LoVerde took attendance. There was no public participation.

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 1
At 9:16 a.m., Trustee LoVerde requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the sale or purchase
of securities, investments or investment contracts. Trustee Capasso seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 10:05 a.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the executive session be adjourned
and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Summers, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against -- None.

INVESTMENTS REPORT
RhumbLine Advisors Presentation
Denise D’Entremont and Alex Ryer from RhumbLine Advisors reviewed the Fund’s historical investments with
RhumbLine Advisors, updated the Board on the current portfolio and conducted an education session covering active
versus passive investing. The RhumbLine Advisors’ team reviewed the firm’s capabilities regarding custom screens
that can be applied to various portfolios.

 EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 2
At 10:58 a.m., Trustee LoVerde requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the sale or
purchase of securities, investments or investment contracts. Trustee Capasso seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Summers, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 10:59 a.m., Trustee Summers made a motion, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the executive session be
adjourned and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Summers, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against -- None.

It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Hamburger, to approve the target asset allocation proposed
by the Fund’s investment consultant.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Summers, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against -- None.

Defensive Equity and Global Low Volatility Presentations
Mr. Obed led the Trustees in educational sessions on Defensive Equity and Global Low Volatility investment
strategies. In addition, the team from Marquette Associates reviewed the findings of one of the firm’s “Investment
Perspectives” reports on manager diversity challenges.

ADMINISTRATIVE ITEM

LABF Staff Annuitant Health Insurance
Mr. Walsh presented several options for Trustees to consider related to the remaining portion of the 2018
healthcare plan options under consideration for LABF staff annuitants. The Trustees gave direction for
Fund staff to move forward in offering the discussed plans for LABF staff annuitants for year 2018,
including the discussed changes to the renewal for prescription drug coverage. The Trustees did not
determine the cost sharing arrangement for the proposed coverage as that decision was a scheduled agenda
item for the October 24, 2017 Board meeting.

ADJOURNMENT
With no further business, at 11:51 a.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion to adjourn. Trustee Joiner
seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Summers, Hamburger, Capasso and Joiner.
Against – None.

 