STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 11, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of the Board; Michael
Coli, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General
Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD August 14, 2012

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the August 14, 2012 meeting. Member Coli moved to approve the
minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the period of
time from August 1 through August 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the
report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-10-222
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois, Department of
Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett directed General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on March 2,
2010, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) in the abovereferenced case. General Counsel Post then presented and discussed the Employer’s exceptions and the Petitioner’s exceptions
and recommended that the Board adopt the ALJ's recommended decision and order with modifications. After discussion,
Member Besson moved to accept the ALJ’s recommended decision with modifications. Member Coli seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case Nos. S-RC-11-004
2.
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois, Department of
Central Management Services
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on November 15,
2011, ALJ Tarver issued a second RDO in this case which had been remanded previously by the board. General Counsel Post
then discussed the Employer’s exceptions and the Petitioner’s responses and recommended that the Board uphold the ALJ’s
RDO. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ’s decision with modifications. Member Washington seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it four in favor, one against. Chairman Hartnett dissented.
Case No. S-CA-12-098
3.
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Sparta
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO, and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
Case No. S-CA-12-109
4.
Skokie Firefighters, Local 3033, International Assoc. of Fire Fighters/Village of Skokie
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO, and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 Case No. S-RC-12-042
5.
Laborers, Local 477/Village of Williamsville
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kehoe’s RDO, and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this date. After a short
discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Springfield, Illinois, this 9th day of October, 2012.

2

 