Illinois Gaming Board Meeting Minutes
March 15, 1990
Illinois Department of Revenue
Media Room, Level 1SE
Willard Ice Building
Springfield, Illinois

Present:
William J. Kunkle, Chairman; Board Members:
J. Thomas Johnson, and William Jack Chamblin
Absent:

Raymond Neipert,

Robert Gibson, Board Member

Also Present:
Senator Denny Jacobs; Representative Joel Brunsvold;
Representative Donald Saltsman; Bob Steere, Temporary Counsel and Secretary of
the Board; Edward J. Welk, Associate Director, Illinois Department of Revenue
(IDOR); Ellen Lewis, IDOR; media and the general public

The meeting was called to order at 10:10 a.m., by Chairman Kunkle, with a quorum
of four of the five Board members present. The Chairman and each of the Board
members introduced themselves. The Chairman then introduced Robert Steere as
temporary counsel to the Board and introduced the guests of the Board: Senator
Denny Jacobs, Representative Joel Brunsvold, and Representative Donald Saltsman.
The Chairman handed out to the Board members background materials with respect
to the New Jersey and the Nevada gaming laws.
The Board entered into a discussion of new business. Chairman Kunkle noted the
time deadlines before the Board with respect to implementing the application
procedure for operators' licenses. In order to meet the deadlines, the
following motions were made to expedite Board action:
*
Mr. Johnson made a motion to authorize the Chairman to recruit and
select the Administrator for the Board. The motion was seconded by Mr. Chamblin
and was passed unanimously.
*
Mr. Johnson made a motion to authorize the Chairman to identify the
need for legal services and to hire legal counsel, either through employment of
an individual or by contracting with a law firm, to assist the Board in drafting
rules and regulations. The motion was seconded by Mr. Neipert and was passed
unanimously.
The Chairman then offered an opportunity to speak to each of the legislators
that attended the meeting. Senator Jacobs was the first to speak, and he made
the following comments:
*
He encouraged the Board to consider a licensing procedure that would
result in an early preliminary approval so that potential licensees could have
some early indication of the Board's willingness to grant a license.
*
The driving force behind riverboat gambling in Illinois was the
competition from Iowa, and the purpose for passing the Act is economic
development. Specific areas that were given special consideration because of
economic development needs were: Quad Cities, East St. Louis, Alton, and
Peoria/Pekin.

 *
He personally feels that there should be no $500 per excursion limit
on gambling losses. He stated that the Board would spend more time policing the
limit rather than more important issues. Also, if there is a limit,
inexperienced operators may be attracted and the more professional experienced
operators will not participate, as it will have a significant negative impact on
profitability.
*
He stated that there are flaws in the bill and encouraged the Board
to review the bill and make recommendations to the Legislature regarding cleanup language. He said this should be done before any clean-up language is
passed.
*
He stated that the bill authorizes year-round gambling, but that the
bill is unclear regarding when a boat is docked or not docked, thereby
potentially disrupting year-round gambling. It should be clarified to assure
year-round gambling, as a part-year operations equate to part-year employment
which will hinder the goal of economic development.
*
He also offered to the Board copies of letters and other materials
he had received regarding riverboat gambling.
A discussion regarding the $500 per excursion limit took place after Senator
Jacobs' presentation. While Senator Jacobs felt that the Board may have
implicit authority to impose the $500 limit, both Chairman Kunkle and Mr.
Johnson stated their belief that the Board is not authorized by the law to
impose such a limit.
Representative Brunsvold was then given an opportunity to speak.
following comments:

He made the

*
The House determined that there were five specific areas in need of
the economic development assistance to be provided by riverboat gambling: the
upper pool and the lower pool in the Quad Cities, Alton, East St. Louis, and
Peoria.
*
Input from local governments is critical to the operation of
riverboat gambling.
*
Clean-up of the bill will take some time. Decisions on the docking
issue need to be made. He would willingly work with the Board and sponsor a
bill for clean-up of the flaws in the Act.
Senator Jacobs added that it was important to give priority to current boat
operators in the licensing procedure and to consider those applicants who will
provide the greatest regional economic development.
A concern was raised about whether someone would be allowed to have boats in two
separate locations pursuant to a single license or whether someone would be
allowed to have two licenses for two separate locations. The difficulties in
allocating the tax revenues were also noted. No conclusions were reached.
Representative Saltsman was given an opportunity to speak. He restated the
importance of local input and involvement in the development of the riverboat
gambling program.

 The Chairman noted that the Act lists several authorized gambling games but
specifically states that the Board could approve others. He asked whether the
sports betting was considered as an option by the legislators. Senator Jacobs
stated that the law would authorize sports betting if the Board approved it, but
took no position on whether it should be authorized. Representatives Brunsvold
and Saltsman stated that the House members feel that sports betting should be
considered independently by the General Assembly on its merits.
Senator Jacobs again noted the need for an expedited licensing process.
Representative Brunsvold noted that riverboat gambling is the most exciting
thing that's happened to the Quad Cities area.
Chairman Kunkle stated that the next Board meeting would be planned for the week
of April 9, 1990. Mr. Johnson suggested a number of issues to be considered at
future meetings, including tourism impact of riverboat gambling, the Board's
responsibilities in the area of public safety, and the early development of
financial standards and guidelines for licensees. Potential presenters for
future meetings include the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs,
potential applicants and community representatives, spokepersons from Nevada and
New Jersey, the Department of State Police, and the Department of Revenue.
In response to a question from Mr. Johnson, Mr. Welk noted that the Department
of Revenue has received a number of inquiries regarding applications for
operator's licenses. He said that those materials will be turned over to the
Board.
A motion to adjourn was made by Mr. Johnson, seconded by Mr. Chamblin, and
passed unanimously. The meeting was adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

Robert D. Steere
Temporary Secretary & Counsel
Illinois Gaming Board

 