February 8th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:00 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “2/8/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Kevin Irvine, Andre Youngblood, Alejandro Silva,
Johnny Miller (Ms. Alva Rosales absent).
PUBLIC COMMENT: Lonnell Saffold

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board M
January 11th, 2017. Mr. Miller moved for approval and the motion was seconded by Mr. M
motion passed with five yes votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: After a brief recess and presentation by Counsel, Chairman Peterson asked
motion to approve Agenda Item number 4-A, an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of a parcel o
property at 3366-68 North Clark Street and 947-55 West Roscoe Street, Chicago, Illinois for the Re
Purple Modernization Phase One Project. Mr. Miller moved for approval and the motion was secon
by Mr. Irvine. The motion was approved with five yes votes.

After a brief presentation by Counsel, Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Agen
item number 4-B, an ordinance authorizing the acquisition of real property at 5323 North
Chicago, Illinois, adjacent to the North Park Garage. Mr. Youngblood moved for approval a
motion was seconded by Mr. Silva. The motion was approved with five yes votes.

After a brief presentation by Counsel, Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve Agen
item number 4-C, a settlement recommendation of $10,000,000, in the case of Michael Whitehea
CTA and Ronald Stubbs, Circuit Court of Cook County, Court No. 2011 L 1008. Mr. Irvine
approval and the motion was seconded by Mr. Silva. The motion was approved with five yes votes

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve three Board Agenda
numbers 5-A, 5-B, and 5-C. The three ordinances appoint a trustee to the Board of Trust
Retirement Plan for Chicago Transit Authority employees, appoint a Trustee to the Board of Trustee
the Chicago Transit Authority Retiree Health Care Trust, and appoint Michele Curran Assistant Trea
of the Chicago Transit Authority. Mr. Miller moved for approval and the motion was seconded by M
Irvine. The motion was approved with five yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
th
reviewed the monthly report on Finance, and approved the
January
11
, 2017
committee
meeting
minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all Committee agenda items, listed on the Board agend
presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board appro
Silva concluded his report.

 Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. Mr. Silv
moved for approval and the motion was seconded by Mr. Youngblood. The motion was approved w
five yes votes.
All approved February 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-8 through 017-18.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”,
February 8th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.

MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjournth,the
2017
February 8
Chicago Transit Board meeting. The motion was moved by Mr. Irvine and approved by unanimous
vote.

 