STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 8, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Prairie Room, Springfield,
Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD September 24, 2013

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the September 24, 2013 meeting. Member Washington
moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from September 1 through 30, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it. Executive Director Mlynski presented the fiscal and mediation reports.
The Board then discussed and questioned various aspects of both reports.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-12-177
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, DuPage Sheriffs, Chapter #126/ County of DuPage and DuPage
County Sheriff

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post noted that on July
1, 2013, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Hamburg-Gal issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO). The
charge alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. General Counsel Post then discussed the
Respondent’s exceptions and the Charging Party’s response. After his presentation he recommended that the Board
accept the ALJ’s decision. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the ALJ’s recommendation.
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-DE-14-053
Illinois Central Management Services (Dep’t of Commerce and Economic Opportunity)/American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, County 31
Chairman Hartnett asked Counsel Post to call and present the case. After his presentation, General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board accept the RDO. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO.
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked Counsel Post to call and present the cases. After his presentation, General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board accept the RDOs in all of the cases listed below.

 Case No. S-DE-14-029 (Dep’t of Children and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to
accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-046 (Dep’t of Central Management Services)(Martin)-After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-050 (Dep’t of Agriculture)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-051 (Dep’t of Central Management Services)(Scronce)-After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept the RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-055 (Dep’t of Corrections)(Miller, Lindorff & Fuqua)-After discussion, Member Brennwald
moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-057 (Dep’t of Human Services)(Dawson & Evans)-After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-058 (Dep’t of Human Services)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-061 (Dep’t of Emergency Management Agency)(Dragoo)-After discussion, Member Besson
moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-063 (Dep’t of Emergency Management Agency)-After discussion, Member Washington moved
to accept the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-065 (Dep’t of Employment Security)(Kiolbasa & Crossland)-After discussion, Member
Besson moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-066 (Dep’t of Employment Security)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-074 (Dep’t of State Police)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-081 (Dep’t of Revenue)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-082 (Dep’t of Veterans Affairs)(Ewing, McPherson & Stam)-After discussion, Member
Besson moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-084 (Dep’t of Natural Resources)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the
RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-089 (Dep’t of Healthcare & Family Services)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to
accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-070 (Dep’t of Transportation)
4.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO and asked whether
the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2

 5.

Case No. S-DE-14-047 (Ill. Commerce Comm’n)
Case No. S-DE-14-083 (Ill. Workers’ Compensation Comm’n)
Case No. S-DE-14-086 (Ill. Pollution Control Comm’n)
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Counsel Post stated that a motion for reconsideration was filed by Petitioner, Central Management Services
and a response to the motion for reconsideration was filed by the Objector, AFSCME Council 31. After his
presentation he recommended that the Board deny the motion to reconsider. After detailed discussion,
Member Washington moved to deny the motion to reconsider. Member Brennwald seconded the motion. The
motion passed with three ayes and two nays; Chairman Hartnett and Member Coli dissented.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at that time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 5th day of November, 2013.

3

 