STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on September 11, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:15 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Chairman Gierut
welcomed newly appointed State Panel Chairman John Hartnett.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD August 14, 2012

Chairman Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the August 14, 2012 meeting. Member Anderson
moved to approve the minutes of the August 14, 2012 meeting. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from August 1 through August 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its highlights.
The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CB-09-066
Darryl Spratt/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241

Chairman Gierut called the case and recused himself. General Counsel Post announced that Member Anderson and
Member Lewis would hear the oral argument scheduled in above mentioned case. After oral arguments were heard,
Member Anderson moved to hold this case so as to further consider and discuss the presented oral argument.
Member Lewis agreed and the motion passed.
2.
Case No. L-CB-12-032
Wayne Harej/ Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
Chairman Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Hamburg-Gal's RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

3.
Case No. L-CA-12-039
William Sewell/ County of Cook
Chairman Gierut called the case. Counsel Kazanjian presented and stated that on May 24, 2012, Acting Executive
Director Post dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party, in which Charging Party alleged the Respondent violated
Section 10(a) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by
Charging Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board accept the Acting Executive Director’s dismissal. After
discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the Acting Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. L-CB-12-037
William Sewell/ Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
Chairman Gierut called the case. Counsel Kazanjian presented and stated that on May 24, 2012, Acting Executive
Director Post dismissed a charge filed by Charging Party, in which Charging Party alleged the Respondent violated
Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by
Charging Party’s appeal and recommended that the Board accept the Acting Executive Director’s dismissal. After

 discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the Acting Executive Director’s dismissal.
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

Member Anderson

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board opted to review the fiscal and legislative reports in the joint panel meeting scheduled for 11:00 a.m. on
this date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded
that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of October, 2012.

2

 