MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 25, 1994
ELGIN, ILLINOIS

A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on Tuesday,
October 25, 1994. The meeting was held on the premises of Elgin Riverboat
Resort, 250 South Grove, Elgin, Illinois. The meeting was held pursuant to
previous Board action and notice was duly given to each Board Member and the
general public in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and J. William Roberts. The
arrival of Member Robert F. Vickrey was delayed.
Additionally, Interim Administrator Joseph F. McQuaid, the media and the
general public were in attendance.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:24 A.M.
Member Browder moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2
(g), (h) and (k) that the Board retire to Closed Session to consider the
following subject matter:
1.
Staff reports regarding Supplier Licenses
2.
Staff reports regarding Occupational Licenses
3.
Matters concerning Owners Licenses that were
confidential pursuant to the Open Meetings Act
4.
Recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge
5.
Investigatory matters
6.
Personnel matters, and
7.
Procedures of the Board.
Mr. Roberts seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 9:25 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:37 P.M.
Members Johnson, Browder, Pyatt, Roberts and Vickrey were in attendance.

day.

Chairman Johnson briefly reviewed the Closed Session held earlier in the
There were no questions or discussion by other Board Members.

The first order of business concerned the Administrator's Report.
Chairman recognized the Interim Administrator.

The

Mr. McQuaid presented monthly reports concerning cruise disruptions and
underage gambling. He noted that Casino Queen, Inc. had been scheduled to
discuss cruise disruptions later in the agenda. Mr. McQuaid stated that 14.6%
of scheduled cruises had been subject to cancellations or disruptions. There
were no questions concerning either report.
Mr. McQuaid next requested the Board to authorize staff to issue a Request
for Proposal soliciting a qualified vendor to operate a compulsive gambler's hot

 line. Mr. McQuaid noted that the General Assembly had appropriated $400
thousand for such a purpose. Under discussion, Mr. Roberts stated that the
appropriations were but a "drop in the bucket" to deal with the emerging problem
of compulsive gambling, but that the appropriation was a starting point to
address the issue.
Mr. Roberts moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to issue a
Request for Proposal, soliciting responses thereto and submit a recommendation
to the Board. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Elgin Riverboat Resorts.
Mr. David Belding appeared on behalf of the applicant. He stated that
1250 full time employees were working, 35% of whom were residents of the City of
Elgin. Mr. Belding introduced the key employees of Elgin Riverboat Resorts.
The Honorable George Van De Voorde, Mayor of the City of Elgin, appeared.
Mayor Van De Voorde welcomed the Board to the city. He told the Board that the
City planned to use riverboat tax proceeds to fund a 20 year development plan.
The Chairman asked Mr. Belding about the applicant's decision not to
charge an entry fee. Mr. Belding responded that the decision was part of an
overall marketing plan.
The Chairman next recognized the Administrator.
Mr. McQuaid reported that pursuant to authorization of the Board, he had
conducted a Final Practice Gaming Excursion on October 6, 1994. The excursion
had been successful and pursuant to further authorization, he had issued a
Temporary Operating Permit. Mr. McQuaid noted that Grand Victoria Casino had
not experienced any violations of the Riverboat Gambling Act, the Rules of the
Illinois Gaming Board or the Internal Controls of the applicant. Mr. McQuaid
recommended the Board approve the applicant as a holder of an owner's license.
Mr. Roberts moved that the application received from Elgin Riverboat
Resort for an Owner's License be approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next item of business concerned issues of owner/licensees.
Chairman recognized Alton Gaming Company.

The

Mr. J. Thomas Long appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested
postponement of consideration of a request involving refinancing. The matter
was deferred to the next regular meeting of the Board.
The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino-Aurora, Inc.
Mr. Ed Pratt appeared on behalf of the licensee along with navel
architects and marine consultants. Mr. Andrew Lebet, of DeJong & Lebet, a
shipbuilding concern appeared on behalf of the licensee to explain mechanical
disruptions and problems experienced by the City of Lights I & II and proposals
to rectify those problems. He noted that 86% of all mechanical problems were

 the result of three reoccurring problems. Mr. Tom Drennen of Continental Marine
Consultants, Inc. appeared as a marine operations consultant. Mr. Bernard Bosch
of Robert H. Anderson & Associates, Inc., a consulting engineer also appeared to
discuss dredging of the Fox River at Aurora. The Board requested additional
documentation be submitted from Mr. Drennen to determine whether additional
dredging would be required for the proposed expansion of City of Lights I to be
able to cruise unimpeded.
Mr. Johnson asked questions concerning the use of thin deck plating which
was causing a ripple effect on the floors of the existing vessels. Mr. Lebet
responded that thinner plating had been used as a weight consideration, but that
all problems had been rectified and the floor ripples had been corrected. Mr.
Vickrey asked questions concerning cooling systems. Mr. Lebet responded that
improved cooling systems featuring a closed system would be implemented relying
less on the present open river water cooled systems.
The Chairman next recognized Casino Queen, Inc.
Mr. John Janicik appeared on behalf of the licensee to discuss cruise
disruptions for the month of September, 1994. He noted that Casino Queen was
forced to cancel 46 cruises due to inclement weather conditions. Additionally,
another 40 cruises were cancelled due to mechanical problems. He noted that
Casino Queen had improved cruising performance to just over 70%. Mr. Janicik
stated that the licensee had purchased an extra engine block to be able to more
expeditiously replace a failed engine. He further detailed additional cruise
disruptions and cancellations. Mr. Janicik also gave preliminary information on
cruise disruptions and cancellations for the month of October. He noted that it
appeared that Casino Queen would make a cruise rate of 66% and that as of
October 25, 46 cruises had been cancelled due to weather.
Ms. Pyatt requested information from all licensees concerning
cancellations due to high winds. The Board was specifically interested to see
what standard the licensees were using in determining high wind cancellation.
It was noted that vessel design would have a determinative effect on the
decision.
Mr. Vickrey requested Casino Queen to submit a report detailing the
history of mechanical failures and what efforts had been undertaken to assure
that parts that more frequently failed were maintained on sight.
Mr. Janicik next requested approval for Casino Queen, Inc. to acquire a
line of credit from Harris Bank in the amount of $1.2 million. It was noted
that the line of credit replaced a similar line of credit previously obtained
from Boatman's Bank of St. Louis.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the Board approve the request of Casino Queen, Inc.
to obtain financing in the amount of $1.2 million from Harris Trust and Savings
Bank. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next item of business concerned Supplier's Licenses.
Mr. McQuaid told the Board that Bally Gaming, Inc. was seeking license
renewal as a supplier of electronic gaming equipment. Staff recommended
approval.

 Mr. Roberts moved that the request received from Bally Gaming Inc. to
renew a Supplier License for electronic gaming equipment be approved. Ms. Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensing.
The Chairman stated that reports and recommendations had been received
from staff and reviewed by the Board.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board accept the staff reports and
recommendations and approve the applications received for Occupational License,
Level 1 for the following individuals:
Mark Heffernan
Joseph Schultze
Dennis Whitehead
Thomas Schumpp
Patrick Moody
Keenan Wright
John Marshall.
Mr. Roberts seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board accept the staff reports and
recommendations and approve the applications received for Occupational License,
Levels 2 & 3. It was noted the motion included 194 Level 2 and 488 Level 3
applications. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board accept the staff reports and
recommendations and deny the applications received for Occupational License,
Levels 2 & 3. It was noted the motion included 6 Level 2 and 5 Level 3
applications. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approve unanimously by voice vote.
The next item of business concerned recommendations of the Administrative
Law Judge.
The Chairman noted for the record that the Board had received a request
from an applicant to seek leave of the Board to re-apply for an Occupational
License within one year of denial. The Chairman asked if any member objected to
the immediate consideration of the request. There was no objection.
Mr. Browder moved that the Board grant leave to Elve K. King to re-apply
for an Occupational License within one year of October 25, 1994. Ms. Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned pending investigations.
The Chairman stated that staff had updated pending investigations during
Closed Session.
The next item of business concerned scheduling of future
meetings.

1994 regular

Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board revise its Regular Meeting schedule
combining the November and December meeting dates to one meeting to be held in
Chicago on December 1, 1994. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next noted that the Board would hear a presentation from Para-dice Gaming Company concerning license renewal at that time.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Roberts
moved the Board stand adjourned. Ms. Pyatt seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approve unanimously by voice vote and the Board stood
adjourned at 1:44 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 