STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 28, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—Videoconference: 160 N LaSalle Street, N703, Chicago, Illinois
and One Natural Resources Way, Rock River Room, Springfield, Illinois.

II.

PRESENT

Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board;
Jerald S. Post, General Counsel, and staff members. Participated via videoconference from Springfield, pursuant to
Section 7(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/7(a), John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Melissa Mlynski,
Executive Director: and Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD February 11, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the February 11, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Besson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

A. Cases with Exceptions.
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases. General Counsel Post briefly discussed
each case stating that AFSCME’s exceptions fail to support overturning the Administrative Law Judge’s (ALJ)
Recommended Decision and Orders (RDO) therefore recommending the Board affirm each RDO.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-144, 145 (Natural Resources)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-146 (Central Management Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-150, 151 (Guardianship and Advocacy Commission)-After discussion, Member Besson
moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-155, 156, 157 (Historic Preservation Agency)-After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to
accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-158 (Racing Board)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-159 (Public Health)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO. Member
Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 Case No. S-DE-14-160 (Public Health)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-161 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case Nos. S-DE-14-164, 165, 166 (Children and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to
accept the RDO. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
B. Cases without Exceptions
Case Nos. S-DE-14-153, 154 (Lottery) and S-DE-14-195 (Juvenile Justice)-General Counsel Post stated that no
party filed exceptions to the RDOs during the time allotted, and recommended that the Board deny AFSCME’s
motion for a variance pursuant to Section 1300.150 of the Board’s Rules and Regulations, 80 Ill. Admin. Code
§1300.150. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to deny the motion for a variance and also decline to review
the cases on the Board’s own motion. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by
a voice vote.
V.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of March, 2014.

2

 