MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 25, 1993
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on February 25,
1993. The meeting was held at 1:00 P.M. in Room C-500 of the State of Illinois
Building, 160 North LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Notice was duly and timely
given to each Board Member and to the general public in compliance with the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, Illinois Revised Statutes 102, Paragraph 42.02.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr.,
Chairman and Board Members J. Thomas Johnson, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F.
Vickrey. Member William J. Chamblin was absent.
In addition, Administrator Morton E. Friedman, Deputy Administrators Marcy
L. Wolf, Joseph McQuaid and J. Thomas Hutchison, Assistant Chief Legal Counsel
Susan Gouinlock, members of the media and general public were in attendance.

P.M.

The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at 1:03
The Chairman welcomed new Member Gayl S. Pyatt to the Board.

The first order of business was the receipt of status reports from
preliminarily suitable applicants. The Chairman recognized Casino Queen Inc.
Mr. Jim Enlund appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board that
Casino Queen Inc. anticipated a delay in commencing operations to late April or
early May due to excessive rainfall delaying construction of the vessel. He
noted that the dockside facilities would be open during the month of April. Mr.
Enlund also announced that the enterprise will fund an economic development
foundation for the benefit of East St. Louis in the amount of $2.5 million over
five years beginning in late 1993. Under questioning, Mr. Enlund stated that
the enterprise would hire 50% of its employees from the City of East St. Louis.
He also provided updated information concerning the metro-link light rail
system.
The next presenter was Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership. Mr.
Tim Wilmott appeared on behalf of the applicant and told the Board the
enterprise anticipated commencing operations in May, 1993. He said the docking
facility would be ready by the end of April, the parking deck would be completed
in June and that the second vessel would be delivered in late 1993. He noted
that the second vessel would be owned by Harrah's Illinois and leased to the
partnership.
The next presenter was Hollywood Casino - Aurora Inc. Mr. William Weidner
appeared on behalf of applicant and told the Board that vessel construction was
close to being on schedule. He stated that the enterprise anticipated
operations commencing in June, 1993. He noted that their dealer's school had
begun training employees. Under questioning, Mr. Weidner reported that the New
York Street bridge had been reopened to general traffic. Member Johnson asked
questions concerning passages written in the book, Temples of Chance, and
requested the applicant submit any and all information concerning the management
of the Aruba Concord. Mr. Roberto Rivera-Soto, attorney for the applicant
responded that the information requested had previously been submitted to the
staff for review and stated that the allegations presented in the book were
groundless.

 The next presenter was Southern Illinois Casino Cruises, Incorporated.
Mr. Michael Ficaro, attorney for the applicant, appeared and told the Board that
Player's Riverboat Casino had commenced operations under a Temporary Operating
Permit issued February 22, 1993. He noted that first day attendance was 1400
passengers. The Chairman recognized the Administrator.
Mr. Friedman reported to the Board that pursuant to the Board's
authorization, staff had conducted a final practice gaming excursion. He stated
that the excursion had been successfully completed and a temporary operating
permit had been issued. He requested the Board approve final licensing.
Mr. Johnson moved that the application received from Southern Illinois
Casino Cruises, Incorporated be approved as the holder of an Owner's License.
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned a change in casino management of
Greater Peoria Riverboat Corporation. The Administrator recommended the Board
approve the management structure change. Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney for the
licensee, appeared and provided the Board with details concerning the
termination of a management contract with Casino Cruises Incorporated and the
proposed management structure under which the investor/owners would manage
casino operations.
Ms. Pyatt moved that the request received from Greater Peoria Riverboat
Corporation to restructure the management of casino operations be approved as
submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned a discussion of the calculation of
the statutory 1200 gaming participant limitation contained in the Riverboat
Gambling Act. Administrator Friedman told the Board that the question of
defining the term "1200 gaming participants" had not presented itself to be
problematic because none of the riverboats in operation had reached 1200
passenger capacity. Kevin Larson of Empress River Casino Corporation appeared
before the Board and urged that a liberal interpretation be adopted. The Board
took the matter under advisement.
The next order of business concerned establishing new guidelines for
verifying minimum insurance coverage as required by the Act. The Administrator
told the Board that staff wished to use new guidelines for evaluating compliance
with minimum requirements, with exceptions being brought to the Board on a case
by case basis. Deputy Administrator Tom Hutchison told the Board that most
licensees met most of the new guidelines. He noted that the licensees had
stated that what is acceptable as a minimum now could change since the cost of
coverage could change dramatically from time to time. Some owners expressed
concern that excess coverage could lead to large claims.
Mr. Johnson moved that staff continue to review the insurance coverage of
licensees for adequacy on a case by case basis applying the new standards and
bring exceptions to the standards to the attention of the Board for review and
approval. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order business was to establish the schedule of Regular Meetings
for calendar 1993. The Board approved the following dates:
May 3, 1993, 10:00 A.M.
July 20, 1993, 10:00 A.M.
October 19, 1993, 10:00 A.M.
The next order of business concerned licensing. The Administrator
suggested the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss various license
applications, to review Minutes of previous meetings of the Board and to discuss
pending litigation.
Ms. Pyatt moved that pursuant to Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 102,
Section 42 (g), (h) and (k) that the Board retire to Closed Session. Mr.
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 1:59 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board resumed its Open Session at 3:49 P.M. Members
Johnson, Vickrey and Chairman Kunkle were present constituting a quorum.
The first order of business concerned recommendations received from the
Administrative Law Judge.
Mr. Vickrey moved to accept the recommendations and findings of fact of
the Administrative Law Judge with respect to the Occupational License
applications received from David Dawson (request to withdraw for hearing),
Kimberly Cox (denial) and Patricia Gomez (denial). Mr. Johnson seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned approval of Suppliers applications.
Mr. Johnson moved that the application received from Bicycle Acquisition
Corporation be approved as a Supplier of gaming equipment and supplies. Mr.
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the application received from Nevada Coin Mart be
approved as a Supplier of gaming equipment and supplies. Mr. Johnson seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Johnson moved that the application received from Casino Tokens, Inc.
to be a Supplier of gaming equipment and supplies be denied. Mr. Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote, the application was
denied.
The next order of business concerned Investor applicants.

 Mr. Johnson moved that the application received from Mr. Franklin Toti to
become an investor in Casino Queen, Inc. be approved. Mr. Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licenses.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations relative
to applications for Occupational License Level 1 received from:
Douglas Cooper
George Desatnick
Michael Karr
Richard Knight
Charles Hickey
Ronald Lenczycki
Paulette Miller
Kathleen Quartana
Rosanne Ruth
Timothy Wilmott.
Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Johnson moved that the staff recommendations relative to approving and
denying applications received for Occupational License Levels 2 and 3 be
approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Supplier License renewals.
Mr. Vickrey moved that renewals of Suppliers Licenses for Green Duck,
Inc., Bud Jones Company and Geo. C. Matteson Company, Inc. be approved. Mr.
Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned minutes of previous meetings of the
Board. The Chairman noted that the Minutes of Closed Sessions held October 15,
1992 and October 27, 1992 were approved by the Board as submitted during Closed
Session.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of October 15,
1992 be approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. Without
objection the minutes were approved.
Mr. Johnson moved that the Minutes of the Special Meeting of October 27,
1992 be approved as submitted. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. Without
objection the minutes were approved.
The next order of business concerned New Business.
recognized Mr. Johnson.

The Chairman

 Mr. Johnson requested the staff prepare a report for the Board's next
meeting to review the use of dockside gaming by licensees.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Vickrey
moved the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Johnson seconded the motion.
Without objection, the Board adjourned at 3:55 P.M.

Respectfully submitted

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 