STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 9, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.— at 160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn
Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 7, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the July 7, 2016, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 12, 2016

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the July 12, 2016, meeting. Member Samolis moved to
approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
V.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Executive Director’s report. She presented the
report and summarized the highlights.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-RC-15-006
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, DuPage County Forest Preserve Rangers, Chapter 714/Forest
Preserve District of DuPage County

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call the case. General Counsel Nelson then asked Associate
General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present the case. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Deena Sanceda issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO)
recommending that the Board certify the petition filed by the Petitioner. She then discussed the exceptions and
responses that were filed. After her presentation, she recommended that the Board affirm the RDO with
modifications. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
2.

Case Nos. S-RC-15-032 and S-RC-15-012
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court of Cook County

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
ALJ Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO finding that the titles petitioned for by the Union are supervisors within the
meaning of Section 3(r) of the Act. She then summarized the issues presented by the exceptions and responses that
were filed. After her presentation, she recommended that the Board accept the RDO. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the RDO. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously
by a voice vote.

 3.

Case No. S-CB-16-013
Beverly Jackson/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
The Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Act.
She then discussed the Charging Party’s appeal that was filed. After her presentation, she recommended that the
board accept the Executive Director’s Dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the dismissal.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously by a voice vote.
VII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to discuss minutes of
meetings lawfully closed under the Open Meetings Act, for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes and
semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(21). Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Washington made a motion to leave executive
session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member
Snyder then made a motion to return to open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VIII.

OTHER BOARD ACTIONS

Member Samolis moved to approve executive session minutes from the April 12, 2016 and June 14, 2016 State Panel
meetings. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. Member
Snyder then made a motion to keep all executive session minutes closed. Member Samolis seconded. The Board
passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IX.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington moved to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of September, 2016.

2

 