Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary August 16, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., MPH
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Joseph B. Starshak
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: August 16, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:07 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: The July 2017 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita reported the following:
Charlottesville
On behalf of CDPH and the City of Chicago, on what occurred in Charlottesville, Virginia this past
weekend and what has been a shameful stain on our nation’s history: We condemn white supremacy,
racism and bigotry in all forms. Chicago and CDPH will continue to stand strong in the face hatred.
We know that discrimination, segregation and racism adversely impact health and this is one of the
many reasons we continue to focus on equity and health equity. As we continue to work across
diverse communities, it is important to acknowledge that communities with the greatest need are
often impacted the most by racism --- instead of allowing for the interruption of progress, let’s stand
together to interrupt racism.
As one of our great civil leader’s Rosa Parks said, "Racism is still with us. But it is up to us to prepare
our children for what they have to meet, and, hopefully, we shall overcome."
BOH members requested an electronic copy of Commissioner Morita’s opening statement on the
Charlottesville.
All Staff Development
The 2017 All Staff Development Conference will be taking place, tomorrow, Thursday, August 17th at Little
Village High School. This year’s workshops are Healthy Equity and Cultural Awareness, Trauma-Informed
Practices, Healthy Living and Professional Development.

Environmental
In July, CDPH, IEPA and Alderwoman Garza hosted a community forum to discuss manganese and other
environmental concerns. On Monday, August 7th, I along with Assistant Commissioner Dave Graham and
Alderwoman Garza held a press conference announcing that the City of Chicago and CDPH will broaden our
investigation of companies that emit toxic manganese dust on the city's Southeast Side. CDPH garnered a lot
of media attention.

West Nile Virus
As of late July, the risk of human West Nile virus infection in the City of Chicago is increasing. Residents
are urged to take precautions against getting mosquito bites. Surveillance crews continue to monitor catch
basins to assess the level of larvacide efficacy and continue larval and adult mosquito control efforts.

Immunization
CDPH kicked off our annual to back-to-school campaign including a city-wide ad campaign; before school
starts in September. We provide children’s vaccines at community health fairs, school, and church events.
There are no out-of-pocket costs for children or their parents to receive vaccines.

Play Streets Week
On Saturday, July 29, 2017, Commissioner Morita joined Alderman Santiago, Assistant Majority Leader
Representative Arroyo, and community leaders to launch PlayStreets Week 17 celebrating an important

2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: August 16, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

milestone-serving 100,000 participants over the past 6 years. CDPH received favorable media attention.

Healthy Kids Townhall Meetings
CDPH has hosted four of the five Healthy Kids Townhall meetings, the final meeting is tonight at 5:30pm at
the Legler Branch Library located 115 S. Pulaski Road in West Garfield Park. You are welcome to join and
invite community members to provide feedback. Thus far residents and community leaders have expressed
full support for the policy proposals we have presented, including increasing the number of lead inspections.

BOH members requested a copy of the final report for all Townhall meetings.
Comments by the Board President:
Dr. Lopez welcomed students and provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the
board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health.
Recently, she saw a television ad about smoking that profiles the African-American community and
thought of Trinity Health Systems’ initiative to stop profiling and will bring it the BOH members.
She thanked Commissioner Morita for her opening comments. Dr. Lopez mentioned the people
involved at Charlottesville are being identified through the use of social media and some are losing
their jobs and even being disowned by their families. Lastly, good people that remain silent need to
stop being silent. We need to stay informed, educate ourselves, overcome fears and - know the truth.
Presentation: “Office of Student Health and Wellness,” Dr. Kenneth L. Fox, Chicago Public
Schools, Chief Health Officer.
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment: Sarah Parchem, CDPH Program Director of Adolescent Health and Ernestine
Perez, CPS School Health Officer mentioned that CPS offers students comprehensive sex and
bullying health education. In addition, CPS offers safe support for LGTBQ students by collaborating
with partner organizations to develop transgender and gender nonconforming awareness and
advocacy training.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:19 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, September 20, 2017, 9:00 a.m.

3

 