MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
July 24, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, July 24, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:10 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele,
Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 26, 2014. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
•
•
•
•
•

Mr. Sid Levinson-Second Lien Bond Holders
Mr. Levinson voiced his concerns relative to the Caesars Financing Transaction
Mr. Gary Loveman – Caesars Representative
Mr. Loveman addressed the Board and staff referencing the Caesars Financing
Transaction.
Mr. Tim Donovan – Caesars Representative
Mr. Donovan addressed the Board and staff explaining why the Caesars Financing
Transaction would be enhance the capital structure of the company.
Mr. Eric Hession – Caesars Representative
Mr. Hession addressed the Board stating the benefits of approving the Caesars Financing
Transaction
Mr. Paul Jenson – Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP
Mr. Jenson addressed the Board referencing the Caesars Financing Transaction.

ITEMS FOR FINAL ACTION –
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – License Renewal
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the Owner’s License of the Empress
Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet for a term of 4 years expiring in July
2018, and approve the following entities, positions and persons as Key Persons of the licensee:
• Timothy Wilmott
• Jay A. Snowden
• John V. Finamore
• Gregg W. Hart
• Jason Taylor

 •
•
•
•

Penn National Gaming, Inc.
Penn Tenant, LLC
Penn National Holdings, LLC
CRC Holdings, Inc.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Caesars Entertainment – Financing Transaction
Member Gould moved that based on staff’s investigation as well as all supporting
documentation, and pursuant to Rule 230(d), he moved to approve Caesars Entertainment
Corporation’s request on behalf of Caesars Entertainment Operating Company for approval to
allow Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. and Caesars’ ownership interests in the
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino to securitize the
aggregate $1.75 billion incremental term loan under the accordion facility of the Credit
Agreement. In addition, I move to approve the proposed modifications to certain provisions of
the Credit Agreement to allow for covenant relief, as delineated in the materials provided to the
Board. These approvals are granted on the conditions that the terms and financing arrangements
in the final executed documents do not materially change from the documentation previously
submitted by Caesars for approval to date, and all final documents are submitted to the Board
upon execution. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Hotel and Casino –
Alan A. Trantina – Vice President of Finance and Administration – Level One
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve Alan A. Trantina as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Vice President of Finance and Administration for Des
Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Hotel and Casino. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Jasmine K. Wills – Internal Auditor
– Level One
Member Gould moved that the Board approve Jasmine K. Wills as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Internal Auditor for Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria
Casino. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel – Robert Bradley Meier –
Senior Director of Finance – Level One
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve Robert Bradley Meier as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Senior Director of Finance for The Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel – Edward Brian
Hansberry – President of Delaware North Companies Gaming and Entertainment, Inc. and
Director of the Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. – Key Person
Member Gould moved that the Board approve Edward Brian Hansberry as a Key Person of The
Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel in his role as President of Delaware
North Companies Gaming and Entertainment, Inc. and Director of the Rock Island Boatworks,
Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Global Cash Access, Inc. – Ram V. Chary – Director/President/CEO – Key Person
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve Ram V. Chary as a Key Person of Global
Cash Access, Inc. in his role as Director/President/CEO of Global Cash Access, Inc. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SHFL Entertainment, Inc. – Request to Surrender Supplier’s License
Member Gould moved that the Board approve SHFL Entertainment, Inc.’s petition to surrender
its Supplier License. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVALS AND DENIALS –
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board find suitable and approve 51 applications for Level
2 Occupational Licenses, 103 applications for Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING/REQUEST TO REAPPLY –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to deny the request for hearing from
Deyonous Moore. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
Leonardo Mendoza – Occupational Licensees
Member Vander Weele moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Occupational
License held by Leonardo Mendoza for his theft from the Casino Queen, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee files an Answer
within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Calvin Lucas – Occupational Licensees
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Occupational License
held by Calvin Lucas for his theft from the Casino Queen, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.

3

 Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
At 10:55 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 