MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
August 15, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 15, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for
closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler and James Sullivan.
At 9:55 A.M. Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling
Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:40 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Roll was taken, all members present.
Approval of Minutes

Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed and open session minutes of
its Regular Meeting of July 18, 2006. Member WInkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe recognized Trudy Curtis and Eleni Markos commented on their hard work
involving the 9 Internal Control submissions. He congratulated them for their outstanding
work. The Chairman also went on to name Doug Bybee as the Deputy Administrator of
Audit & Financial Analysis Division.

 Member Moore went on to stay that he was encouraged that some of the casinos will be
conducting the business fairs. Member Moore also went on to mention that Harrah’s Joliet will
be conducting a business fair and down the road Hollywood Casino Aurora will also be having
one. He also went on to say that achieving results is what is important.
Administrator’s Report
Mark Ostrowski stated that there will be a General Manager’s meeting in October, 2006.
Member Moore went on to state that he had committed a Board member would be available to
attend the General Manager’s meeting.
Administrator Ostrowski indicated that one additional speaker will address the Board today
during Open Session; Mr. Roseborough, Executive Director from the Illinois Counsel on
Problem Gambling.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Par-A-Dice – Marianne Boyd-Johnson, Owner, Key Person

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Marianne Boyd-Johnson as a Key Person of Par-A-Dice Casino
Corporation. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously be roll call vote.

• Par-A-Dice Casino Corporation – Jeffery M. Perry, Regional Internal Audit Supervisor,
Central Region of Boyd Gaming Corporation – Key Person

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Jeffery M. Perry as a Key Person of Par-A-Dice Casino Corporation.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously be roll call
vote.

•

Hollywood Casino – Gregg W. Hart, Vice President of Internal Audit - Key Person

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board approve Gregg W. Hart as a Key Person of Hollywood Casino. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Harrah’s Metropolis – Bruce G. Loprete, Director of Security Harrah’s Metropolis
– Level One

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Bruce G. Loprete as a Level One Occupational Licensee of Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 ●

Casino Queen, Inc. – David J. Spihlmann Jr., Internal Auditor – Level One

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve David J. Spihlmann Jr. as a Level One Occupational Licensee of Casino
Queen, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 32 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 193
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to Thomas A. Parks, an applicant for a Level 3 license, who
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did
not respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Velma Brown, Security Officer

Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Velma Brown, a Level 2 Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to her theft from Empress Casino Joliet.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Ms. Brown’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Tom Swoik addresses the Board in open session. Here is his presentation in its entirety.
I am here today to keep you apprised of the status of implementation of the activities to
strengthen the Voluntary Statewide Self-Exclusion Program. Secondly, I would like to discuss

3

 the numerous activities of the Illinois casinos related to The American Gaming Association’s
Responsible Gaming Education Week.
As you are aware, the Association has always supported numerous activities related to
responsible gaming including the Problem Gambling Hotline 1-800-GAMBLER, administered
by Bensinger, Dupont and Associates, since 1996.
The members of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association also enthusiastically support the
American Gaming Association’s (AGA) Responsible Gaming Education Week. The AGA
created Responsible Gaming Week in 1998 to increase awareness of problem gambling among
gaming employees and customers and to promote responsible gaming nationwide. The week of
August 7-11, 2006, last week, marked the ninth year for this event. This year the theme was “Be
Responsible, Get Educated” and is symbolized by orange wristbands similar to those made
popular by Lance Armstrong, stating “KEEP IT FUN”. I have provided you with some of these
wristbands.
The information provided this year by the AGA included not only the theme “KEEP IT FUN”
wristbands in English and Spanish, but also media advisory information, Responsible Gaming
Activities Workbooks, buttons, ribbons, stickers, brochures, posters, and table tents for employee
lounges. The objective of the campaign is to involve employees in activities to promote
responsible gaming. Employees are trained to explain to patrons the significance of the
wristband, button, sticker or ribbon they are wearing during Responsible Gaming Education
Week.
Prior to Responsible Gaming Education Week, management at the casinos provided training to
staff not only related to the week’s activities, but also as a refresher to the training every
employee receives related to responsible gaming.
Additional activities conducted in conjunction with Responsible Gaming Education Week at
various casinos included:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Displaying posters throughout the properties;
Providing information to employees via paycheck stuffers;
Free lunch for employees during the kick-off day for the week
Displaying table tents in employee lunch rooms and lounges, reeducating employees about
protocols and procedures related to responsible gaming;
Explaining the company’s protocols for responsible gaming and the roles of employees
through formal letters and memos from top company management;
Conducting employee contests to identify key terms related to responsible gaming initiatives;
Discussing issues related to responsible gaming during employee meetings;
Providing information and advertising, promoting responsible gaming in direct mail pieces
and a local newspaper.
Newsletters with information about the week, and
Comprehensive training for management staff

4

 Although Responsible Gaming Education Week is a special industry-wide collaborative effort,
we are actively involved in improving responsible gaming efforts throughout the year.
Now I’d like to update you on the status of implementing the improvements to the Statewide
Voluntary Self-Exclusion Program. I would like to personally thank Administrator Ostrowski,
Mike Fries, Gene O’Shea, Kathy Spain and all the other staff who have assisted with the
implementation of these improvements. I would also like to thank Trudy Curtis and Eleni
Markos for their assistance in approving the internal controls.
All casinos are scanning driver’s licenses or other government issued ID’s of individuals who
appear to be under 30 years of age and comparing the information to the Self-Exclusion list.
Second, casinos are requesting local law enforcement agencies to arrest the first time and every
time individuals who are on the list and attempt to enter a casino or are detected in the casino. In
some rare cases the local law enforcement agencies may not arrest because of manpower issues.
Third, new signage has been posted at all casino entrances. The following language appears
either on two individual signs or one sign.
“ All patrons who appear to be 30 years of age or younger will be required to provide a
valid state issued drivers license, state identification card or other government issued
identification card for entrance to the casino pursuant to Illinois Gaming Board
Regulation”
“Warning: Any person enrolled in the Illinois Gaming Board Statewide Self-Exclusion
Program will be subject to arrest for trespassing and prosecuted to the fullest extent
permitted by law for attempting to enter or entering any part of an Illinois casino
property.
Fourth, A $250 Incentive payment for employees has been implemented.
Fifth, All systems have been networked with the self-exclusion list. These include, but are not
limited to players cards, check cashing, issuance of w2g’s and table games ratings.
Sixth, The IGB Statewide Voluntary Self-Exclusion Program contact information has been added
to the ICGA operation Bet Smart Brochures that are available at all casinos.
Seventh, A letter is being mailed to all current enrollees of the Self-Exclusion program
reminding them of their responsibilities, indicating the new arrest policy and providing a list of
resources to help them. This mailing should be completed today or tomorrow.
Finally, your staff are working to update their Self-exclusion application forms and brochure to
strengthen the arrest language.

5

 In summary, the casino industry in Illinois is committed to responsible gaming, has effective
programs in place to bring that message to our employees and customers and is actively working
as an industry to make our programs even more effective.
Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important issue.
The Chairman went on to thank Tom Swoik for his help in getting the program underway.
Member Gardner also went on to thank Tom Swoik, and finding out that Gaming Education
week was last week; today, was after the fact. Tom went on to state that he had sent some
information out, but it was delayed in the mail.
Mr. Roseborough of the Illinois Council on Problem Gambling was the next speaker. Mr.
Roseborough stated his title in the agency. Mr. Roseborough went on to say that the agency now
has 13 new Board members from every aspect of life. He went on to say that they are affiliated
with the National Counsel of Problem Gambling. Mr. Roseborough stated that gambling is a
behavior that causes many disruptions in one’s life, with education in communities via schools,
churches and organizations. He went on to commend the Illinois Gaming Board in addressing
under age gambling in casinos. Mr. Roseborough stated that his agency is in full support of the
Illinois Gaming Board.
The Chairman stated that Mr. Roseborough is a welcome to our agency.
Member Gardner asked for some background from Mr. Roseborough. Mr. Roseborough went on
to state his background and how long he has been involved with problem gambling. He himself
had a problem with problem gambling.
At 2:10 p.m. Member Winkler moved to adjourn . Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 