STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 14, 2006

I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; Letitia Taylor, Member of the Board; John Brosnan, Executive
Director; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General Counsel; staff members; and members of the public.

III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 24, 2006

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the January 24, 2006 meeting. Member Piper
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Taylor seconded. The motion passed unanimously.

IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the administrative actions for January 1
to January 31, 2006. Executive Director Brosnan distributed his report to the Board. Member Hernandez
questioned whether it would be possible to present the report data in a manner to make the information
more readily understandable. In response, the Board engaged in a general discussion about the agency's
data collection, the agency's computer database software, and the possibility of upgrading this area of the
Board's operations. Thereafter, Executive Director Brosnan noted that there were several elections
scheduled for the end of February and the beginning of March, among others, for court reporters and
circuit court clerks. The Executive Director further noted that from January 1 to January 31, there were
twelve units certified through majority interest petitions and pointed out that under each listed case were
the numbers of employees certified within that unit. In addition, Executive Director Brosnan noted that
during that time period, there were five unit clarification petitions, four petitions were withdrawn, one
dismissal issued, and three Administrative Law Judge Recommended Decision and Orders issued,
disposing of a total of six cases. He concluded his report, surveying the unfair labor practice case activity
from January 1 to January 31, highlighting six administrative dismissals and an Administrative Law
Judge Recommended Decision and Order issued during that time.

V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
S-RC-06-045
International Brotherhood of Teamsters/PACE, Northwest Division/Amalgamated Transit Union,
Local 1028, AFL-CIO, CLC
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case. This matter parallels an issue that was
before the Board last month in Case No. S-CA-06-107, Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1028/PACE,
Northwest Division, and in the federal court lawsuit brought by the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU),
concerning the Teamsters’ attempt to represent a unit currently represented by ATU. The order at issue
herein arose out of ATU's refusal to stipulate to an election, and as is the agency's practice in such
instances, the Executive Director directed the election. During the investigation of this matter, the ATU

 failed to raise the issues it now brings to the Board, regarding the times and dates of the election.
Specifically, ATU contends that the scheduled dates and times are not convenient for all employees.
General Counsel Zimmerman recommended that the Board uphold the direction of election and proceed
with the election scheduled for February 28. The Board engaged in a general discussion regarding the
ability of the employees to vote during the times as scheduled and the agency's practices and methods in
scheduling elections. At the conclusion of that discussion, Member Piper made a motion to adopt the
recommendation of the General Counsel. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
S-CA-04-221
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Calumet Park
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case. At issue in this matter is whether the
Village threatened to retaliate against an employee because of his union activity. The Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) found the Respondent Employer violated the Act. The Village disagreed and filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s findings. The General Counsel recommended that the Board sustain the ALJ's
recommendation, as it was well-supported by the record. The Board discussed the circumstances of the
case, and at the end thereof, Member Piper made a motion to adopt the General Counsel's
recommendation. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
3.
S-CA-05-175
American Federation of Professionals/City of Calumet City
General Counsel Zimmerman stated that in this case, neither party filed exceptions to the ALJ's decision
and asked whether the Board wished to review it on their own motion. The Board declined to do so.
However, the Chairman urged as a general matter, that ALJs be cautious when parties cite fiscal concerns,
as occurred in this case, as the basis for a suspect personnel decision.
4.
S-UC-06-032
City of Bloomington/Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee
General Counsel Zimmerman began by summarizing the case. She noted that the unit clarification
petition filed in this matter seemed unnecessary because the unit description already included the
petitioned-for employees, and in any event, it failed to meet the Board's appropriateness criteria for such
petitions. The General Counsel stated the Executive Director properly dismissed the petition and
recommended that the Board uphold his order. Member Hade made a motion to adopt the
recommendation of the General Counsel. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

General Counsel Zimmerman briefed the Board on the status of current litigation. The Executive Director
distributed to the Board, an updated checkbook-style fiscal report and a chart providing the Board a midyear fiscal snapshot of the agency's actual versus budgeted costs, prepared by Board Fiscal Officer Nicole
Hildebrand. In presenting her report, Fiscal Officer Hildebrand voiced her concern regarding the agency's
increased spending on court reporting, and the Board and Fiscal Officer discussed various alternative
methods of reducing those costs. The Chairman advised the Board of the dates and times of the agency's
upcoming appropriations hearings. The Board decided against holding an Executive Session.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Piper made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Member Taylor seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously and the meeting adjourned.
2

 