STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on July 8, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Sarah
Kerley, Deputy General Counsel, and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 3, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the June 3, 2014 meeting. Member Besson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from June 1 through June 30, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case Nos. S-UC-14-013
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ Will County and State’s
Attorney of Will County

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Deputy General Counsel Kerley to present the issues of the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley stated that the
Employer sought to exclude the Assistant State’s Attorneys from the bargaining unit, pursuant to the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision in Office of the Cook County State’s Attorney v. Ill. Labor Relation Board. The Union
objected to the petition. Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a recommended decision and
order (RDO) where she found that the unit clarification petition should be granted. Deputy General Counsel Kerley
recommended that the Board adopt the RDO and direct the Executive Director to clarify the unit to exclude all
Assistant State’s Attorneys in the Office of the Will County State’s Attorney. After discussion, Member Coli moved
to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case Nos. S-CA-08-039, S-CA-08-045, S-CA-08-069, S-CA-08-245
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ City of Rock Island
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-14-064
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ State of Illinois
Treasurer
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case, stating that the
Executive Director dismissed a charge alleging the Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Illinois Labor Relations
Act. He then presented and discussed Charging Party’s appeal and the Respondent’s response. General Counsel Post
recommended that the Board accept the dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the dismissal.
Chairman Hartnett seconded the motion. Chairman Hartnett and Member Coli voted for the motion. Members

 Brennwald and Besson opposed. The motion failed to pass, and the Executive Director’s dismissal stands as the final
Board action on the matter.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 12th day of August, 2014.

2

 