MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
February 21, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, February 21, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 2nd floor at 110 W. Randolph at the JRTC Building, Chicago, Illinois
at 1:15 P.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould. Chairman Jaffe participated via speaker phone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of January 24, 2013. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
Member Gould stated that the owner licensees should make commitments to vendors that are in
the State of Illinois.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the annual report can be obtained by visiting the IGB
website.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Tom Gray addressed the Board referencing his concerns with the SEP program. He also
commended the IGB on their regulation.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

MGM Resorts International/Nevada Landing Partnership – Refinancing
Transaction
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve Nevada
Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor of the principal amount of
$1.25 billion of MGM’s 6.625% Senior Notes due 2021, which were sold by
MGM in December, 2012, and an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement
which refinances MGM’s previous credit agreement and is comprised of a
$1.2 billion revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion Term Loan ‘A’ facility,

 and a $1.05 billion Term Loan ‘B’ facility. Member – seconded the motion.
Chairman Jaffe opposed the motion. Member Vander Weele was in favor of the
motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.
•

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino & Hotel – License Renewal
Based on staff's investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve the renewal of the Owner's License of Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino & Hotel for a term of
4 years expiring in February, 2017 and designate the business entities,
individuals and positions designated in the renewal letter as Key Persons of
the licensee. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino – Theodore
A. Bogich, Senior V.P. of Operations – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
Theodore A. Bogich as a Key Person in his position as Senior Vice President
of Operations of Midwest Region Boyd Gaming. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

•

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Mark A.
Serrano, Director of Slot Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Mark A. Serrano as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his
position as Director of Slot Operations of Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a
Jumer’s Casino & Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Troy D.
Wolford, Controller – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
Troy D. Wolford as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as
Controller of Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Leonard W.
McCullough, Director of Clairvest Group, Inc. – Key Person

2

 Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Leonard W. McCullough as a Key Person of Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino in his position as Director of
Clairvest Group, Inc. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSE ITEM
•

The United States Playing Card Company – License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board renew the
Supplier License of U.S. Playing Card Company for a period of four years, expiring
in February, 2017, and designate the following positions, persons and entities as Key
Persons of the licensee:
•
•
•
•
•

Jarden Corporation, Inc.;
Bicycle Holding, Inc.;
United States Playing Card Holding, Inc.;
President, United States Playing Card Company; and
Mark A. Hill.

Further, Member Vander Weele moved to approve United States Playing Card
Company’s approved Supplier’s List including Playing Cards and Dice. Member –
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Western Money Systems, Inc. – Petition to Surrender Supplier’s License
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve Western Money Systems, Inc.’s
petition to surrender its Supplier License which is currently valid until May 2014.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved that the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board find suitable and
approve 42 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 74 applications for
Level 3 Occupational Licenses and that the Administrator issue Notices of Denial to
Gregory D. Harvey and Angela O’Houlahan. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
•

Candyce L. Miller – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint against Candyce L. Miller for failing to disclose all

3

 material changes in information to the Board and that the Board revoke her
occupational license, said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer to the Complaint or pays a
$500.00 fine within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 1:40 P.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 