STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on November 18, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, N703, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board; Michael Coli, Member of the Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General
Counsel; John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General
Counsel; and staff members participated via video conference from Springfield and Chicago.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD October 7, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the October 7, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-14-073
Illinois Council of Police/ Village of Lyons/ Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/ Metropolitan
Alliance of Police, Lyons Chapter #705

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and discuss the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
August 29, 2014, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Deena Sanceda issued a Recommended Decision and Order
(RDO) finding that ballots challenged during an election were cast by eligible voters. He then discussed the
exceptions and responses filed by the parties. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the
Board affirm the RDO with modifications. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO with
modifications. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-13-115
Skokie Fire Fighters, International Association of Firefighters, Local 3033/ Village of Skokie
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel
Hamburg-Gal stated that on August 22, 2014, ALJ Heather Sidwell issued a RDO dismissing a charge filed by
Charging Party against the Respondent. The charge alleged that the Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of
the Act. She then discussed the parties’ exceptions and responses. After her discussion, she recommended that the
Board affirm the RDO and dismiss the complaint on the basis that the charge was untimely filed. After discussion,
Member Besson moved to accept Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal’s recommendation. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-14-067
Wheaton Fire Fighters Union, Local 3706, IAFF/ City of Wheaton
General Counsel Post called the case and discussed the case to the Board. General Counsel Post stated that on
August 15, 2014, ALJ Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO recommending that the Board find that Respondent
did not violate Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that

 the Board affirm the RDO with modifications. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to affirm the RDO with
modifications. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it with Chairman Hartnett dissenting.
4.
Case No. S-CA-11-201
Glenview Professional Firefighters Local 4186, IAFF/ Village of Glenview
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Heather R. Sidwell issued two RDOs with exceptions from the
first withdrawn and no exceptions filed from the second and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision
on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case Nos. S-CA-12-038 and S-CB-12-009
Levita Jones/ State of Illinois, Central Management Services/ American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Michelle N. Owen issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-UC-14-007
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 196/ City of Geneva
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Martin Kehoe issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-UC-14-098
Springfield Park District/ Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Sarah R. Kerley issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 16th day of December, 2014.

2

 