MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
November 15, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, November 15, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 2nd floor at 110 W. Randolph at the JRTC Building, Chicago, Illinois
at 10:15 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander
Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of October 18, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS Administrator Ostrowski provided a summary of the Board Policy Item referencing the
promotions at the Riverboats and how they need to be tested before being initiated.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT BOARD POLICY ITEM
•

Proposed Amendment to the Riverboat Gambling Rules - Sections 3000.614
Member Gould moved that the Board authorize staff to submit a proposal to amend
the Board’s rules on Riverboat Gambling, Section 3000.614, requiring the advance
testing of any tournament, enhanced payout, or Give-away for which eligibility or
the amount of an award or prize is determined by an information system for First
Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the
Administrator. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership and Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino Cruises, Inc. – Request to allow Nevada Landing Partnership as a
Subsidiary Guarantor on Certain Debt
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, pursuant to Section
230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Holewinski moved to approve Caesars
Entertainment Corporation’s request for Board approval of Caesars Entertainment
Corporation’s general partner ownership interests of Des Plaines Development
Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino and Hotel and Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino as Subsidiary
Guarantors of the principal amount of $500 Million of Caesars Entertainment
Corporation’s First Lien Notes due 2015. Member Gould seconded the vote. Member
Vander Weele was in favor of the motion. Chairman Jaffe was opposed. The motion
passed 3 to 1.

•

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Request to allow Nevada
Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor on Certain Debt
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, pursuant to Section
230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Vander Weele moved to approve MGM
Resorts International’s request for Board approval of Nevada Landing Partnership
as a Subsidiary Guarantor of the principal amount of $1 billion of MGM’s 6.75%
Senior Notes due 2020, which were sold by MGM in September, 2012 to qualified
institutional buyers. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. Member Gould was in
favor of the motion. Chairman Jaffe was opposed. The motion passed 3 to 1.

•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Request for approval of Financing
and Pledge Agreements
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould
moved pursuant to Section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules to approve the
refinancing of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC debt through a new
senior credit facility of Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC, consisting of a $300
million term loan and a $150 million revolving credit facility, consistent with the
transaction documents provided to the Board.
Member Gould further moved pursuant to Section 235(b) of the Board’s Adopted
Rules to approve the pledge of certain collateral pursuant to the Security
Documents to be entered into by Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC as borrower
and guarantor, by Midwest Gaming Holdings, LLC as pledgor, and by Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment, LLC, Midwest Gaming Finance Corp. and Devon
Parcel, LLC as guarantors; including the Pledge and Security Agreement,
Equity Pledge Agreement, Subsidiary Guaranties, and Mortgage, consistent with

2

 the transaction documents provided to the Board. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Hollywood Casino – Aurora, Inc. – Melonie Johnson – Vice President of Finance
and Administration – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve
Melonie Johnson as an Occupational Licensee Level One in her position of Vice
President of Finance and Administration for Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSE ITEM
•

Multimedia Games, Inc. – New Supplier License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Supplier’s License to Multimedia Games, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring
in November 2013, and designate the following entity, position and individual as
Key Person of Multimedia Games, Inc.:
•
•
•
•

Multimedia Games Holding Company, Inc.;
Chief Executive Officer;
Chief Operating Officer or its functional equivalent; and
Patrick J. Ramsey, President and CEO

Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board authorize the licensee to supply
electronic gaming devices, parts, equipment and gaming industry supplies to
licensed Illinois Casinos. Member Holewsinksi seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

H. Betti Industries, Inc. – Request to Surrender Supplier’s License
Member Gould moved that the Board allow H. Betti Industries, Inc. to relinquish its
Supplier License which is currently valid until November 2015. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board find suitable
and approve 38 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 80 applications
for Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 At 10:32 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 