MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 8, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, December 8, 2008 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday, December 8, 2008 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and
Joseph Moore.
At 9:35 a.m. on Monday, December 8, 2008, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 9:51 a.m. The Board went into
open session at 10:00 a.m.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY Lorraine Morton, Mayor, City of Evanston
Ms. Morton made a presentation to the Board supporting Trilliant Gaming for the bid for the 10th
license.
Rev. Tom Grey, Field Director and National Spokesperson of Stop Predatory Gambling
Rev. Grey stated that he is against any and all types of expansions of gaming.
Jim Blue
Mr. Blue addressed in the Board and stated that he is not in favor of Des Plaines being the
location for the 10th License. Contrary to popular belief, Mr. Blue feels that there is not
widespread support for a casino in the Des Plaines community.

 Rev. Glenn R. Stewart, President, Greater Waukegan Ministerial Association
Rev. Glenn Stewart voiced his opinion in opposition to the casino’s location in Waukegan.
Kathy Gilroy
Ms. Gilroy voiced very strong opposition to the casino location in Rosemont. Ms. Gilroy
suggests that mob influence is still present in the Village of Rosemont. Ms. Gilroy also stated
that the amount of traffic congestion will be horrendous if the Village gets the 10th license.
Peter R. Olson
Mr. Olson is a resident of the Des Plaines, Illinois community. He stated that this area is home
to average middle class people. Mr. Olson stated that he strongly opposes the location of the 10th
license in his community. He said it would take away from the family friendly atmosphere that
the community now has.
Jacqueline Pofahl
Ms. Pofahl strongly opposes the casino’s location in Des Plaines. She cited a 1999 resolution
that was passed stating no to the expansion of gaming.
Carl “Spark” Ball, Executive Director, Love INC
Mr. Ball stated that he is opposed to the casino’s location to be in Waukegan. Mr. Ball also
stated that for every dollar raised by tax revenues through gambling there is a $3.00 cost in social
services. Bankruptcy rates are 18% higher in counties that offer casinos as entertainment.
Anita R. Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems
Ms. Bedell appeared before the Board and stated that she is against a casino at any of the
locations. Ms. Bedell stated that casinos impose a negative impact on the community in which
they are located.
Edward Schock, Mayor, Elgin, Illinois
Mayor Schock appeared before the Board and stated that he believes a casino in the City of
Waukegan best satisfies the spirit and intent of the Riverboat Gambling Act and will produce the
best return to the State of Illinois in the long term. He believes that by awarding the license to
Waukegan it will provide economic stimulus to rescue both the city and the region from the
devastating losses brought about by the mass exodus of lucrative manufacturing jobs.
Tim Barnes, Unite Here Local 1
Unite 1 is a labor union that represents gaming workers across the country. He stated that he
thinks that a casino located in Waukegan would greatly enhance the economics of the region.

2

 Trinita Logue, President and CEO, IFF
Senator Michael Noland
Senator Noland stated that awarding the 10th license in the Waukegan area would greatly
enhance the economic development of the Waukegan area.
Member Gardner commented on the Grand Victoria Foundation. Each of the applicants will be
encourage to mirror what the Grand Victoria Foundation has done for the Elgin area.
Karen McConnaughay, Chair, Kane County Board
Ms. Hurelt spoke for Ms. McConnaughay who was not able to attend the meeting. Ms Hurelt
stated that a Waukegan location for the 10th license would not only develop the re-growth of the
Waukegan area, but would not have any effect on revenue loss for the Grand Victoria Casino in
Elgin.
Robin Schabes, Lakefront & Downtown Redevelopment Director
Ms. Schabes is the Lakefront and Downtown Redevelopment Director for the City of Waukegan.
She provided the “master” plan for what the City proposes in the next 15 years; in hopes of being
that Waukegan will be the home of the 10th license.
Tom Weisner, Mayor, City of Aurora
Mayor Weisner appeared before the Board and stated that by awarding the 10th license to the
Waukegan site. He also pointed to the economic growth of the area.
Terry Link, State Senator 30th District
Senator Link stated to the Board his support on behalf of Waukegan Gaming LLC.
Alderman Rafael Rivera, 9th Ward Alderman, Waukegan
Alderman Rivera appeared before the Board and stated that he was very much in favor for a
casino to be placed in the City of Waukegan. He sited the economic down turn that the City has
experienced in the past few years. Having the 10th license awarded to Waukegan LCC would be
such a benefit to the City of Waukegan.
Lynn P. Karner, President, Lake County Building and Construction Trades Council & Business
Manager, Plumbers Local Union 93
Lynn Karner stated that having a casino in Waukegan would turn the economy of the city
around. With the construction of the facility building trades would benefit from the construction.
Once the casino was erected many citizens from the area would be able to seek employment and
be able to once again support their families.

3

 Harold (Jack) J. Wiaduck, Village President, Riverside
Mayor Wiaduck stated that he and his community are in support of the 10th license being
awarded to the Village of Rosemont. He suggested that his community will benefit greatly
should the state award the 10th license to Trilliant Gaming.
Jules Gaudin, Chief Operations Officer & Deputy Superintendent, Waukegan School District 60
Mr. Gaudin stated that he was in support of the Waukegan development. He stated that the
development would in turn have numerous sources of employment for the young and old.
Irene Brodie, Mayor, Village of Robbins
Mayor Brodie stated with the Rosemont development her community would fair well. Presently
Mayor Brodie stated that the City of Robbins is in great financial need. With a casino in the City
of Rosemont her community would share in the revenues of the casino.
Bette Thomas – North Chicago – former Mayor – served one term
Ms. Thomas was very much opposed to a casino in the City of Waukegan. She stated the effects
of gambling would be devastating to the community.
John Janicik legal counsel for the Waukegan Development submitted the correspondence of Mr.
Arthur Gass of the Black Chamber of Commerce of Lake County, Inc. He asked that this
correspondence be reflected in the open session minutes.
Mr. Gass is the President/CEO of the organization. The letter was written in support of the 10th
license being awarded to the City of Waukegan. Mr. Gass stated the casino will contribute to
strong economic development in the City.
ADJOURNMENT At 12:10 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to reconvene into closed session while Member
Gardner seconded the motion. All Members voted in favor.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 