STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on November 10, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski,
Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and
Colleen M. Harvey acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 6, 2009

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the October 6, 2009 meeting. Member
Sadlowski moved to approve the minutes. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the Local Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2009. He distributed the report
to the Board, and the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

Member Anderson recused himself from the discussion and vote with regard to the first case on the
agenda, Metropolitan Alliance of Police/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County, Case No. L-CA-08015, as he participated in the matter as a witness. Chairman Zimmerman made a motion to leave open
session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed the motion—two in favor, none
against—Member Anderson was absent from the room. Chairman Zimmerman made a motion to go
into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the cases on the agenda, pursuant to Section
2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2009). Member Sadlowski seconded the motion,
and the Board passed the motion—two in favor, none against—Member Anderson was absent from the
room. Member Anderson returned to the meeting room after the discussion in Case No. L-CA-08-015
was complete. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion of all cases on the agenda, Chairman
Zimmerman made a motion to leave executive session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Zimmerman then made a motion to return
to open session. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
1.
Case No. L-CA-08-015
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case and moved to accept Acting General Counsel Brosnan's
recommendation that the Board deny Charging Party's motion to strike, and uphold Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Clifford's recommendation, but modify his remedy. Member Sadlowski seconded the
motion, and the Board passed the motion—two in favor, none against—Member Anderson was not
present for either the discussion or vote.

 2.
Case No. L-CA-07-049
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/County of Cook
Chairman Zimmerman called the case and moved to overturn ALJ Wells' Recommended Decision and
Order, finding no violation by the Employer. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. L-RC-09-012
Chicago Joint Board, Local 200, Retail, Wholesale, Dep't Store Union/County of Cook
Chairman Zimmerman called the case and moved to accept Acting General Counsel Harvey's
recommendation that the Board uphold the executive director's June 19, 2009 direction of election.
Member Sadlowski seconded the motion. Chairman Zimmerman and Member Sadlowski passed the
motion by a voice vote. Member Anderson opposed.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Staff distributed the fiscal report, and the Board examined and discussed it. The Board reviewed the
status of legislation that could affect the agency and in particular, discussed the ramifications of P.A.
096-0813.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 8th day of December, 2009.

2

 