MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the September 3, 2014 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively
referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature; as such, they
are subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call.
Trustee Committee Members Present:

Additional Trustees Present:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair), Patrick McFadden, Diahann Goode
Brent Lewandowski and Alexis Herrera
Sam Richardson
Nickol Hackett, Executive Director; Staff: Rachelle
Howliet, Brenda Deming, Rachel Farris
Jessica Streit, Chris Heppner, John Gingell, Segal

Public Comment.
Trustee Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the Committee. There being no public
comment, the meeting continued.
1. Review and Consideration of the July 22 and reconvened August 6, 2014 Health Benefits
Committee Meeting Minutes.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee McFadden to approve the minutes.

2. Administrative Report
Ms. Deming notified the Trustees that BCBS provided a final resolution on the $392,384 reimbursement
from Medicare. She then discussed the initial renewal terms for Guardian Dental Plan, which was a
County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 decreased of 5% per month. It was also requested of Guardian to increase the annual benefit maximum
from $1,000 annually to $1,500 annually at no additional charge. Final results will be reported at the
next scheduled meeting.
Ms. Deming then reviewed an implementation plan for moving members to the new health plan
administrator. Fund staff has planned for November 7th as the open enrollment meeting date. The
Trustees requested additional meetings be held, South and North of the Chicago union hall location.
3. Contract Performance Guarantees Summary
Ms. Deming reviewed the performance guarantees provided by UHC, in the following areas: financial
accuracy; customer service; disease management and client satisfaction. She provided a final summary
of contracting results which indicated a $9,012,618 reduction in plan expense over the initial three year
term of the agreement, a 2.6% reduction in unfunded actuarial accrued liability and an additional 2.4%
reduction from copay changes in the drug program.
The Trustees reviewed a five year rate history and discussed the impact on members of the switch to
UnitedHealthcare for 2015. It was noted that the Fund’s goal is to stabilize increases to the extent that it
is able to manage cost increases through various strategies.
4. Review of Proposed Member Premiums for 2015 Health Care Plans
Segal presented rates for 2015 based on our projected expense plus medical trend for the year.
Additionally they modeled the impact of raising pharmacy copays on 90 day supply of Brand and
Generics by $5.00 in each category. It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee
Lewandowski that the Fund Annuitant subsidy be 52%, and 67% for Survivors, and adopt the change in
pharmacy copays.
5. Review of Subsidy for members with less than 10 years’ service
The committee reviewed Retiree Medical Plan eligibility with regard to years of service, and were in
agreement not to make any changes at this time.
6. Adjournment
It was moved by Trustee Lewandowski and seconded by Trustee McFadden to adjourn the meeting.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 