Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
April 12, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Riverboat – on April
12, 2018 in the auditorium on the 5th floor of the Michael Bilandic Building Center, Chicago,
Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were present: Don Tracy, Chairman; and Members Hector
Alejandre and Michael Hansen. Members Steve Dolins and Dee Robinson did not attend due to
employment reasons. Three of the five members of the Board being present, a quorum was
satisfied.
Also in attendance were: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini, other members of the staff,
the general public, and interested parties.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 9:03 AM.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of March 7, 2018. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
•

Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes

Member Alejandre moved, upon a review of the minutes of closed sessions held by the Board
from July 2017 through December 2017, that the Board approve the dissemination of those
minutes, as they no longer require confidential treatment. Member Hansen seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial/Final Consideration:
•

CEOC, LLC – Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah's Joliet Casino
& Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruise LLC d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis
Casino – Request for Initial Consideration of Refinancing Transaction Approval, Request
for Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule, and Request for Final Consideration of Refinancing
Transaction

Member Hansen moved that the Board waive its two meeting rule, and approve the request by
CEOC, LLC to refinance, for purposes of interest rate repricing, its $1.7 billion credit facility,

 including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah's Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises LLC d/b/a
Harrah's Metropolis Casino, subject to the final executed documents being provided to the
Illinois Gaming Board and the Administrator's determination that the terms and conditions are
materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Initial/Final Consideration:
•

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino-Des Plaines – James
Jabczynski – Level 1

Member Hansen moved that the Board approve James Jabczynski as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in his position as Vice President of Slots for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC
d/b/a Rivers Casino-Des Plaines. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
•

HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Lydia C. Garvey – Level 1

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Lydia C. Garvey as a Level One Occupational
Licensee in her position as Vice President and General Manager for HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a
Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
•

Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton, HC
Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora, and HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood
Casino Joliet – Request for Final Consideration of Financing Transaction in relation
to its merger with Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc.

Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the request by Penn National Gaming, Inc. to
enter into $1.25 billion Incremental Term Loans, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Alton
Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton, HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora, and
HC Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet, subject to the final executed documents being
provided to the Illinois Gaming Board and the Administrator's determination that the terms and
conditions are materially consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Hansen seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
•

Boyd Gaming Corporation – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel
& Casino – Request for Final Consideration of Financing Transaction.

Member Hansen moved that the Board approve the request by Boyd Gaming Corporation to
issue $1.0 billion new senior Unsecured Notes, including subsidiary guarantee of debt by Par-ADice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel & Casino for the acquisition of five properties,
four of which are in conjunction with the merger of Penn National Gaming, Inc. and Pinnacle
Entertainment, Inc., subject to the final executed documents being provided to the Illinois
Gaming Board and the Administrator's determination that the terms and conditions are materially

2

 consistent with those disclosed to the Board. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Advantage Promotional Systems, Inc. – Initial Supplier License

Member Hansen moved that the Board issue a Supplier License to Advantage Promotional
Systems, Inc. for an initial term of one year, expiring in April 2019, and find Gregory W. Davis
suitable as Key Person of the licensee. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Hansen moved that the Board find suitable and approve 71 Level 2 occupational
licenses and 81 Level 3 occupational licenses. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
At 9:25 AM, Member Alejandre motioned to adjourn. Member Hansen seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Board

3

 