STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on January 8, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, S-400, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD December 11, 2012

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the December 11, 2012 meeting. Member Washington
moved to approve the minutes. Member Besson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice
vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from December 1 through December 31, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-12-011
Patrick Nickerson/ Village of University Park

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
September 18, 2012 an Executive Director dismissal issued with Charging Party filing an appeal and Respondent
filing a response. General Counsel Post, with the assistance of Counsel Hamburg-Gal, presented and discussed the
issues of the dismissal, the appeal and the response. Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board strike the
Charging Party’s appeal and accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved
to accept the recommendation and strike the appeal and accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-12-094
Illinois Conference of Teamsters and Teamsters Local 916/ State of Illinois, Treasurer
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
August 27, 2012 an Executive Director dismissal issued with an appeal filed by Charging Party and a response filed
by Respondent. General Counsel Post, with the assistance of Counsel Tarver’s memo, discussed the charge, alleging
that the Respondent violated Section 10(a)(4) of the Act. After presenting and discussing the Charging Party’s
appeal and Respondent’s response, a recommendation was made to the Board to deny the motion to strike
Respondent’s response and reject the dismissal. After discussion, Member Besson moved to deny the motion to
strike the Respondent’s response and to reject the Executive Director’s dismissal and issue a complaint. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-12-135
Geraldine Armstrong/ Village of Maywood (Police Department)
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
August 8, 2012 an Executive Director dismissal issued and Charging Party filed an appeal. General Counsel
Post, with the assistance of Counsel Owen, discussed the charge, alleging that Respondent violated Sections
10(a)(1), (2), and (3) of the Act. After presenting and discussing Charging party’s appeal, Counsel Owen
recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Besson moved
to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal with modifications. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-12-159
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ City of Waukegan
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that an
Executive Director Deferral to Arbitration issued on August 28, 2012 and Charging Party filed an appeal. General
Counsel Post, with the assistance of Counsel Kehoe, discussed the charge, alleging that Respondent violated
Sections 10(a)(1), 10(a)(2), and 10(a)(4) of the Act. After Counsel Kehoe presented and discussed the Charging
Party’s appeal, he recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director’s deferral. After discussion,
Member Besson moved to accept the Executive Director’s deferral. Member Brennwald seconded the motion and the
Board passed it unanimously.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 5th day of February, 2013.

2

 