Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
April 12, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Video – on April 12,
2018 in the auditorium on the 5th floor of the Michael Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were present: Don Tracy, Chairman; and Members Hector
Alejandre and Michael Hansen. Members Steve Dolins and Dee Robinson did not attend due to
employment reasons. Three of the five members of the Board being present, a quorum was
satisfied.
Also in attendance were: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini, other members of the staff,
the general public, and interested parties.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 9:27 AM.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of March 7, 2018. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
•

Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes

Member Hansen moved, upon a review of the minutes of closed sessions held by the Board from
July 2017 through December 2017, that the Board approve the dissemination of those minutes, as
they no longer require confidential treatment. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATORS
License Renewals
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator Licenses for a
term of one year, expiring in April 2019:
•
•
•
•
•

Gaming & Entertainment Management – Illinois LLC
Grand River Jackpot, LLC
Great Lakes Vending, Corporation
Illinois Operators, Inc.
Lucky Day LLC

 •
•
•
•

Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC
Sinbad’s Castle Arcade, Ltd.
T’s Gaming, LLC
Velasquez Gaming, LLC

Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of Accel
Entertainment Gaming, LLC for a term of one year retroactive to March 2018, and expiring in
March 2019. Member Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Hansen moved that the Board approve 48 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for a
period of one year, expiring in April 2019. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Hansen moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or
renewed in April 2017, and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their
annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's
Rules. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve 40 Terminal Handler licenses. Member
Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Hansen moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal Handlers
who were licensed or renewed in April 2017, and who have properly updated their applications,
timely paid their annual fees, and remain in compliance with the requirements of the Video
Gaming Act and the Board's Rules. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
At 9:33 AM, Member Alejandre motioned to adjourn. Member Hansen seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Lucy Bautista
Office Manager & Acting Secretary to the Administrator/Board

2

 