CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Monday, January 8 2018
Members Present
Committee Members:

Excused:
Facilitator:

Pierre Bance (Arrived late)
Angela Davis (Acting Chair for this meeting)
Melissa Fuller
Grace Kaminkowitz
Christina McGleam
Susan Riley (Arrived Late)
Donna K. Shaw
Allen West
Michael Connelly, Vice President Service
Planning

Angela Davis was asked to chair this meeting.
Ms. Davis called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves. Ms. Kaminkowitz stated this was her
last meeting as her membership term has expired. Ms. Davis acknowledged and
thanked her for her service.
Announcements
 Ms. Fuller stated that the National Federation of the blind is having a
Benefit/Fund Raiser on March 15, 2018 at Zaney’s Comedy Club, 1548 N. Wells,
Chicago. Tickets are $20.
 Mike Connelly announced that the CTA has received 19 completed applications
related to filling the vacancies on the Committee due to the expiration of
members’ terms. The Chairman’s office will review the candidates and the 5
openings (as of the end of this meeting) should be filled by the April 2018
meeting.
Approval of Minutes
 As there was not a quorum at the beginning of the meeting, the Minutes were
voted on later during the meeting.
 There were no corrections to the October Meeting Minutes.
 Ms. Davis asked for a motion to approve the Minutes as submitted. Ms. Fuller
moved and Ms. Riley seconded the motion. All voted “Aye” and the Minutes were
approved.
General Construction Report Update
 Mr. Robert Wittmann, Vice President of Capital Construction presented the report
dealing with the 95th Station, Wilson, Brown Line Signal and Quincy Projects. He
1

 















was joined by William Trumbull, Senior Manager-Fare Systems-Service Levels
who provided additional information regarding the Wilson Station Update.
95th Station: There are 2 shifts of work going on almost 7 days a week. The track
work and track level work on both sides of the terminal and both sides of the
platform in the north and south sections were completed in November including
installation of the new interlocking. The north terminal foundations are done.
Work continues on both the exterior and interior of the new south terminal which
is expected to open later this quarter.
Wilson Station: The station is open and usable. All three entrances are now open
and the Sunnyside entrance which is now accessible, opened in early December.
Restoration work on the historic Gerber Building and additional site work is being
done to wrap up this project.
Brown Line Signal Project: Project is between Armitage and the Merchandise
Mart. To support the future signal system, signal cables are continuing to be
hung. Foundation steel is complete for 2 of the 3 new Relay Houses which will be
installed later this year.
Quincy Station: The foundation work and path work is being completed which will
accommodate the 2 new elevators that will go from street to platform level.
Structural steel work started that will accommodate the pathway from the
platform level elevator to the station house. Also working on installing new floors
within both sides of the station house.
Illinois Medical District Station - IMD: Work at the Ogden and Paulina Station
Houses continues as these areas become more accessible, including work on
the ramp that goes from the Station House to the Platform on the Paulina side
and the installation of an elevator at Ogden. As there was some concrete
deterioration found at Ogden, additional shoring work and concrete slab work
needs to be done prior to the installation of the elevator.
Mr. Trumbull presented information regarding a newly installed accessible fare
media and fare gate system at the Sunnyside entrance of the Red Line Wilson
Station. The tall ADA door which is about 59” tall, operates the same as other
gates where an individual taps their fare card and then can push the door open to
pass through. It requires about 3 lbs. of pressure to push. It also pushes out
when someone needs to exit. The door is clear and its height will assist regarding
fare evasion so people cannot just reach over and tap the button as on a lower
gate without paying.
Ms. Kaminkowitz asked how does the CTA decide where to add elevators? She
specifically asked about the Quincy Station. Mr. Wittmann stated that many
considerations go into the planning and funding always needs to be considered.
He also reminded people about the All Stations Accessibility Program (ASAP)
which addresses the planned accessibility of all stations. Ms. Carole Mooney,
Chief Planning Officer who was present, explained that as the ASAP is being
finalized, elevators are being added to the Quincy Station due to an opportunity
the CTA had in relation to available TIF funding. CTA worked with the Alderman
in the area to make this happen.
Ms. Fuller asked about the Pedway from the Blue Line to the Red Line at
Jackson (it’s a Jackson Stop) but Adams is currently closed. Mr. Wittmann
2

 

explained that CTA was not doing this work but would check to see what
information is available about the project and when that area may be open.
Ms. Davis stated that she had used the new accessible Sunnyside entrance at
the Wilson Station the day before and found it very convenient as she was going
to the Target Store which was much closer to this side of the station.

Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members
in advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting
packets.
 Andre Cozzo, Senior Manager Escalator/Elevator Maintenance reported to the
Committee on the status of the system’s elevator and escalator efficiencies.
 For the 4rd quarter of 2017 vs. Q-4 in 2016, the following reflects Elevator
Efficiencies:

Oct. 2017 = 97.3% vs. Oct. 2016 = 98.7% (-1.4%)

Nov. 2017 = 98.2% vs. Nov. 2016 = 99.1% (-0,9%)

Dec. 2017 = 98.4% vs. Dec. 2016 = 98.5% (-0.1%)
 For the 4th quarter of 2017 vs. Q-4 in 2016, the following reflects Escalator
Efficiencies:

Oct. 2017 = 82.9% vs. Oct. 2016 = 97.4% (-14.5%)

Nov. 2017 = 87.1% vs. Nov. 2016 = 96.0% (-8.9%)

Dec. 2017 = 91.4% vs. Dec. 2016 = 94.3% (-2.9%)
 The data also included information on the following Escalator Reconditioning
Projects.

O’Hare Blue Line – completed March 3, 2017.

Loyola Red Line – completed June 9, 2017.

Chicago Blue Line – completed November 29, 2017.

Montrose Blue Line anticipated start date – June 1, 2018.

River Road Blue Line – anticipated start dates October 1, 2018.
 Ms. Fuller asked how the escalators are holding up and Ms. Kaminkowitz added
the same question about the elevators. While Mr. Cozzo admitted that the
weather has some effect on the systems, the age of the equipment also plays a
role in their deterioration as some escalators are quite old.
 Ms. Riley asked if escalators could be covered to help protect them especially in
cold weather and Mr. Cozzo stated that many are covered by a canopy.
Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance
for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Kate Kennelly, Manager Customer Feedback Programs presented the Customer
Service Report to the Committee.
 Ms. Kennelly reported that, “Overall in the fourth quarter,
complaintsdecreased 10 percent
from the previous period
with the total of193. ADA complaints were also
down 9 percent from the
same period lastyear. Welogged205. ADA related complaints accounted 5
forpercent of all of our
complaints, whichis consistent with last
year. In the fourthquarter,there were 3,993 total complaints,
3

 






193 ofwhich were ADA related. ADA complaints were
relativelysteady throughout the quarter, but
there wasa small up in December when the total was
68.”
The following are the 4th quarter statistics regarding disability-related Customer
Service complaints.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-4 2017 (October,
November, December 2017), = 3,993 of which 193 were ADA related
complaints (4.8%).

Q-4, 2017 Bus Related Complaints: Oct. 55, Nov. 51 and Dec. 62 totaling
168.

Q-4, 2017 Rail Related Complaints: Oct. 10, Nov. 9 and Dec. 6 totaling 25.

During the 3 month 2017 Q-4 period, there were a total of 193 ADA
Compliance Complaints which include things such as rude operator, pass
up, ramp issues, stroller issues, refusing boarding with a legitimate service
animal, failure to kneel bus, AVAS (announcements), priority seating, gap
filler, elevator and escalator issues and touching passenger, service
animal or personal equipment (if not requested to assist).

A breakdown of the top ADA Compliance Issue complaint categories for
Q-4 2017 vs Q-4 2016:

ADA Compliance accounted for 60 complaints in 2017 vs. 60 in
2016.

Rude Operator totaled 40 complaints in 2017 vs. 43 in 2016.

Pass up totaled 31 complaints in 2017 vs. 41 in 2016.

Lift/Ramps totaled 12 complaints in 2017 vs. 10 in 2016.

Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 8 complaints in 2017 vs. 14 in 2016.

Stroller issues totaled 11 complaints in 2017 vs. 2 in 2016.

Priority Seating issues totaled 6 complaints in 2017 vs. 4 in 2016.

Failure to announce stops totaled 0 complaints in 2017 vs. 10 in
2016.

Year-end ADA compliance complaints totals were: 747 in 2017 vs.
806 in 2016.

All complaints for 2017 = 16,426 (5% of which were ADA) vs.
16,698 for 2016 (5% of which were ADA).
Ms. Fuller asked why a Bus Operator might not kneel a bus and Ms. Kennelly
replied that the Bus Operator may not have been able to lower the bus to be
even with the sidewalk or he just might not have been aware to do it.
Ms. Fuller also asked if complaints were sent to the ADA Manager and Ms.
Kennelly replied that yes, they were.
Ms. Kaminkowitz pointed out that sometimes Bus Operators are very far away
from the curb so kneeling the bus doesn’t always work.
Ms. Davis asked for clarification regarding Priority Seating. Are people just not
giving up their seats or is the Bus Operator not assisting and asking customers to
move? Ms. Kennelly responded that she is aware of both issues when it comes
to the Priority Seating Area.

Facilitator’s Report
4

 









Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs presented the following topics
and updates.
Policies and procedures:

In answer to some calls she has had, she explained that only individuals
who have an active Paratransit Reduced Fare Program Card and are
traveling with a Personal Assistant (PA) receive the reduced fare rate for
both themselves, as well as their PA. This does not apply to customers
who only have the Ride Free Program Card. Customers must have the
Paratransit Card to receive the reduced fare for their PA. Bus or Rail
personnel are allowed to ask to see the card to verify eligibility for the
reduced fare.

She further explained that the Ride Free Card is only for the individual for
whom it was issued. Cards can be confiscated if misused, (i.e., given to
others).

Ms. Serpe stated that reminders of CTA’s Boarding and Alighting policy
has been sent to all garages. The policy clearly states that people who
use wheelchairs or anyone needing the ramp board first, ahead of other
customers and alight last, after other customers.

Regarding the Priority Seating Policy, Ms. Serpe pointed out that CTA
personnel may request people to move to accommodate customers with
disabilities however we cannot require anyone to do so. Also, people with
or without disabilities may be able to move. It is up to the individual to
decide if they are able to move. It is up to the Operator or CSA to make
the request.
Ms. Serpe will be participating in various bus and rail Rap Sessions which
promote discussions of various policies and afford operators the opportunity to
ask questions to clarify policies.
On Oct 26, 2017, a familiarization training was provided at the Union Station
Transit Center (USTC) Bus Terminal. This was the second training of its kind at
that location. Many individuals who were blind or visually impaired, as well as
one participant who was DeafBlind and Donna Shaw from the ADA Advisory
Committee took advantage of the opportunity to walk-through the Station. Two
Orientation and Mobility Instructors (one from ICRE Wood and the other from the
MTM team) volunteered to assist at this training and one Sign Language
Interpreter was hired to facilitate appropriate communication to participants who
were Deaf..
A similar training requested by the Blind Services Association was held on
November 17, 2017 at the new Washington/Wabash Elevated Station. Blind
Services had many participants, as well as volunteers and again, there were the
same 2 Orientation and Mobility Instructors who volunteered their time to assist.
Ms. Serpe announced that the ADA Unit will be sending out notices related to
accessibility information using a new mail box. Anyone can sign up to be on a
mailing list and announcements will come from a non-reply mailbox
titled, Access@TransitChicago.com. The subject line will also be clearly defined
so individuals can either read or discard an e-mail quickly. Also the list will be
sent out as a “blind copy” so only one name will be visible to each recipient.
5

 







Anyone not already receiving updates can either call Amy Serpe at 312-6812608 or e-mail her at aserpe@transitchicago.com to be put on the e-mailing list.
Work continues on the Customer Complaints project to more clearly define the
types of accessibility and accommodation issues the CTA receives. It is
anticipated that additional training tools may be established from the analysis of
this data.
Ms. Serpe stated that, “Lastly, we finally have the results
from our FTA review that happened in May of
2017. Theywere focused on how CTA works with both PACE
and RTA regarding paratransit
services. The FTAfound that CTA had no deficiencies.We were happyabout that.So we do work
appropriately with those
other agencies.”
Ms. Davis asked for clarification between attending the Rap Sessions verses the
ADA trainings. Ms. Serpe explained that she does ADA and Disability Awareness
Trainings for staff including Bus Operators, CSAs, Rail Personnel, Managers,
etc., on a regular basis. The Rap Sessions are the more informal discussions
held at garages or terminals where staff can ask specific questions or various
issues and concerns defined in customer complaints can be reviewed and
discussed.
Ms. Kaminkowitz also asked if additional trainings such as were done at the
USTC would happen again. Ms. Serpe said, yes, that is something that can be
arranged.

Public Comment
 Scott Figved suggested that there should be more police presence throughout
the CTA system and is concerned that people who are homeless present a threat
to others. He also stated that sometimes at Jefferson Park, buses do not stop in
the appropriate location to allow a wheelchair user to board. Additionally at
Jefferson Park, he is concerned with individuals soliciting money and feels that
CTA’s rules aren’t always followed or enforced.

Ms. Fuller commented that larger Blue Line Stations, such as Jefferson
Park, are more heavily populated and security may not appear to be as
present or enforcing of the rules. She stated that a smaller station such as
Cumberland may be better at stopping certain activities such as soliciting.

Ms. Riley commented that people should not be discriminatory against the
homeless as it is not illegal to be homeless.

Mr. Connelly stated that someone from the Safety Department can be
present at the April meeting to address safety concerns and explain CTA’s
Code of Conduct and other policies.
 Jacob Shinski wanted to know how quickly CTA can add elevators if funds are
available? He is particularly interested in the Belmont Blue Line Station and other
Blue Line Stations that are currently inaccessible.

As Ms. Morey was still present, she stated that, “… the idea behind the ASAP
plan is that it would be a 20-year comprehensive
plan, funding dependent of course, to make
all rail stations accessible.… We have made significant progress
on accessibility over the
past few yearsparticularlywith the opening of Washington/Wabash and Wilson
as well as the
Quincy station project. The
Red/Purple Modernization project, whichfully
is funded, will make
an additional fourstations accessible.
Again, the purpose of the planto
is develop a 20-year
6

 

plan funding dependent and
we'll need a lot of help I think from the ADA
communityto make
sure that our legislators Springfield
in
understand the importance … [of securing] local funding,
so we will needsome assistance in making sure that
legislatorsunderstand that that is a
priority.”

Ms. Kaminkowitz asked when the 20 years started and Ms. Morey replied
that CTA’s President announced the initiative at the ADA 25 Anniversary
celebration in 2015.

Ms. Fuller asked Ms. Morey if the CTA was partnering with any
organization at this time regarding legislative efforts to which Ms. Morey
said, “…that there hasn’t been any formal legislation that has been
proposed.” She was referring to the fact that the ADA Community works
with various organizations and that they should let their legislators know
that this issue is a priority for the community. Ms. Fuller then suggested
that there are 2 attorneys that work with the National Federation for the
Blind in Chicago and they may be useful in helping with the legislators as
the NFB does a lot of advocacy work for various initiatives. Ms. Morey
thought that was an excellent idea and will discuss it with CTA’s Vice
President of Legislative Affairs.

Mr. Shinski asked when the ASAP report will be made public to which Ms.
Morey replied that it will be published in 2018 but no firm date is set. It will
also be available on CTA’s Website.
The next speaker, Allan Mellis had presented a written copy of his remarks to the
CTA and asked that it be distributed to all Committee members. His verbatim
testimony was as follows:

My name is Allan Mellis, a Community Leader for over 40 years, and a
Public Transportation Advocate.
In January 2016, the Chicago Tribune reported, “CTA makes rail
accessibility for riders with disabilities a long--‐term goal”. Since then the
CTA has announced major improvements to the Belmont and the Grand
Avenue Blue Line Stations. However, neither the very attractive
Belmont station nor the Grand Avenue station will provide disabled
access.
Belmont Blue Line Station
In an article entitled “Why the Belmont Blue Rehab includes a futuristic
canopy but no Elevators” [Streetsblog Oct. 27, 2016], the CTA
spokesperson is quoted as saying: “…these constraints [limited footprints
and proximity to buildings] make expansion to accommodate elevators
difficult and expensive…”
Grand Avenue Blue Line Station
The developer of the project adjacent to the Grand Avenue Blue Line
station said he would set aside part of the building to allow for elevators for
CTA disabled access.

7

 North/ Clybourn Red Line Station
Previously, when Apple provided funding for the North/ Clybourn Red Line
Station,
disabled access was not included.
Conclusion
On the CTA’ website it says as part of its All Stations Accessible Program
(ASAP): “We're committed to making our system 100% accessible”. It
seems to me that the ASAP 100% accessible commitment is a hollow
promise unless funding is identified and committed.
The primary reason given to me for not providing accessibility to the three
stations mentioned above is lack of financial resources to overcome the
technical challenges. When the ASAP report is finally released, it must
include specific, potential federal, state, and local financial resources
including CMAQ, TIF, Neighborhood Opportunity funds, and local
developer contributions.
Prepared by: Allan Mellis 1115 West Montana St. Chicago, Illinois 60614--‐
2220 mellisfamily@rcn.com 773--‐327--‐9123






Mr. Mellis added that he would like to have escalator outage notices posted
similar to how the CTA posts elevator outages.
Garland Armstrong, former CTA ADA Advisory Committee member is concerned
that there are people who are homeless and continually ride the Blue Line and
that someone should help them. He also stated that, when deployed, the bus
ramps at Cumberland are still too steep for easy access. He said the ramps at
Rosemont were much better.
Mr. Connelly stated that at this time, there are not going to be any changes made
at Cumberland but there will be changes to Jefferson Park which will better
accommodate people who use wheelchairs in boarding or alighting buses.
Mr. Armstrong also stated that he is concerned about people being on the tracks
and that people should know that there is electricity there and should stay off the
tracks. Ms. Fuller asked if he has seen this personally to which Mr. Armstrong
stated that he has heard about such incidents on the news. Ms. Riley did point
out that the CTA has signs up alerting people to the fact that the tracks have
electricity and that the information conveyed is that, “It’s not worth it,” to try and
get something off the tracks that has fallen such as a cell phone, etc.

Od Business
 Mike Connelly provided the following information in response to 2 issues that
were raised by Susan Riley at the last meeting.
 Ms. Riley had asked what the procedures are if there are fluids (such as baby
vomit) found on the bus?
 Mr. Connelly explained that the Operator should be informed of the situation.
(Nothing can happen if (s)he doesn’t know about it. The Bus Operator should
8

 







curb the bus and investigate. The Operator notifies the Control Center and
follows their instructions. If there is a bus right behind this one, customers may
board that bus. Depending on the severity of the situation, the bus may be
evacuated, etc. Safety of all customers and staff is the primary concern. The bus
will be cleaned.
Ms. Fuller asked, “What about on the
train?What if the same situation [happens] on the
train?”
Mr. Connelly replied regarding a “Similar situation ontrain
the in that the train operator, if it's brought
to
their attention, should be then bringing the
it to attention of the control center, who will
then intervene
and do what needs to be
done.The same kind of situation and the same kind of clean
up procedure,
always safety first depending on
what'sgoing on.”
Ms. Fuller asked, “Can the train continue to
operate,just close that particular
car?” To which
Mr. Connelly stated, “That can bedone.It willbe the control center's call as to what material
the
is, whether it's human waste, biological
waste.There are a number of biohazards.
Blood is different
than babyvomit.Neither oneis pleasant, but they're different
situations.”
Ms. Riley had then asked a second question regarding what the procedures are if
the bus ramp is above the curb?
Mr. Connelly responded that the bus should be situated so that the ramp can be
appropriately deployed. If the Bus Operator has to move the bus to deploy the
ramp, this should happen. If needed, the Bus Operator should get out of their
seat to assist the customer in alighting the bus safely.

New Business
 Ms. Davis would like for someone from the ASAP group to address what are the
recommendations related to way-finding especially for people who have visual
impairments that are being considered based on recommendations from the ADA
Advisory Committee.
 Ms. Davis stated that she would also like Ms. Fuller’s comment from the October
meeting addressed regarding the lack of contrast on the stairs at the
Washington/Wabash Station at the next meeting.
 The Committee would also like follow-up from the Safety Department at the April
meeting.
 Ms. Fuller would like additional information regarding the Public Comment Policy
if any changes are being made. Ms. Davis replied that she believes the
Chairman’s office is still reviewing the policy to which Mr. Connelly stated that
yes, it is still pending.
Adjournment
 Ms. Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday April 9th, 2018.
 Ms. Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Kaminkowitz moved to adjourn the
meeting and Ms. McGleam seconded. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting
adjourned at 3:02pm.

ajs 3-9-18
9

 