STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 12, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski,
Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members. Sharon B. Wells also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 12, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman requested minor modifications of the draft minutes of the April 12, 2011 meeting.
After the Board discussed the proposal, Member Anderson moved to approve the minutes of the April 12,
2011 meeting, with the requested modifications thereto. Member Sadlowski seconded. The Board passed
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from April 1 to April 30, 2011. He presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-10-026
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 21/City of Chicago/
Service Employees International Union, Local 73

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Harvey's Recommended Decision and Order, and
recommended that the Board reject the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Anderson moved
to reject the ALJ's recommendation. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion. Chairman Zimmerman
and Member Anderson passed the motion by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski opposed, contending that the
ALJ's recommendation should be accepted. Member Anderson withdrew his motion, and Chairman
Zimmerman withdrew her second. After further discussion, Member Anderson moved to specifically reject
the ALJ's determination that the City of Chicago repudiated the collective bargaining agreement with
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 21, and Service Employees International Union,
Local 73. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Member Anderson moved to reject the balance of the ALJ's decision and to dismiss the underlying
complaint. Chairman Zimmerman seconded the motion. Chairman Zimmerman and Member Anderson
passed the motion by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski opposed, contending that apart from the finding on
repudiation, the remainder of the ALJ's recommendation should be accepted.
2.
Case No. L-CB-11-001
Jeanette Mallette/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
September 9, 2010, with an appeal filed. Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal, and
recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's order. After discussion, Member Sadlowski

 moved to accept the Executive Director's order. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. Thereafter, he updated the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the
agency. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board
concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of June, 2011.

2

 