Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary January 18, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., MPH
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 20, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:07 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: The December 2016 minutes were not approved due to no
quorum.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita reported the following:
School Based Oral Health
 On Friday morning, Commissioner Morita participated in a wonderful School-Based Oral
Health event held at the Nathan Hale Elementary School, in the Midway community. The
purpose of the event was to highlight the School-Based Oral Health program that is in
underway at the school. The Illinois State Dental Society presented a check to the school and
Goodie Bags for all the students containing a tooth brush, toothpaste and dental floss.
 Nathan Hale Elementary is one of the schools to which the CDPH School-Based Oral Health
Program provides prevention dental services each school year. In the 2015-2016 school year,
the CDPH School-Based Oral Health Program was in 505 Chicago Public Schools and
provided dental services for 109,603 students.
Coming Together to Improve Health and Wealth on Chicago's West Side
 On Tuesday, January 10, Megan Cunningham and Commissioner Morita participated in an
event hosted by Rush, UIC and Stroger that kicked off an initiative to address health on the
Westside of Chicago. The focus of this group is on addressing healthy equity through
community investments using a collective impact model. HC 2.0 was referenced several times
throughout the morning and will serve as a guide as this initiative moves forward. CDPH looks
forward to being a part of this important initiative.
Partner Engagement
 CDPH followed up with more than 20 philanthropic organizations to identify opportunities for
collaboration. The group was enthusiastic and focused on housing, behavioral health, food
access, violence prevention, and the health and human services resource directory. We will
convene in February to solidify next steps.
In addition, Dr. Morita reported the following:
Citywide Initiatives
 Last week, the Citywide Mental Health Response Steering Committee kicked off a new
community-based initiative to improve awareness and reduce stigma around mental health. The
"West Side Outreach Project" is another step forward in the efforts to improve crisis response
for individuals with mental illness and will provide residents with information about how to
access the city's mental health services and engage with the city's mental health services and a
Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) trained first responder in a time of crisis. The pilot project will
provide free mental health training to schools, faith-based institutions and community
organizations with the goal of training more than 400 community members over the next six
months in Police Districts 10, 11 and 15—largely the Austin, North Lawndale and East/West
Garfield Park communities. The training will be delivered by various mental health providers
in the City, including NAMI Chicago, Presence Health, Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's
2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 20, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street





Hospital of Chicago, Sinai Hospital and Thresholds, including tailored trainings for specific
audiences. UIC's Jane Addams College of Social Work is spearheading an evaluation of the
effectiveness of this training, with an eye toward expanding its reach to all of Chicago's
communities.
Last week, Mayor Emanuel expanded youth mentoring to serve another 660 additional youths.
The investment puts the city halfway to the Mayor's goal of making mentoring universal for
young men in high-crime neighborhoods—a central tenet of his comprehensive public safety
plan.
The Mayor also announced a new pilot program to develop vacant homes in neighborhoods
that need investment and jobs—creating opportunities for local businesses while supporting
affordable homeownership. Through the pilot program Chicago will work with community
partners to facilitate acquisition of the properties, finance the renovations and generate
employment opportunities for at-risk youth to maintain the homes until they are rehabilitated
and sold.

Each of these Citywide initiatives supports strategic goals of Health Chicago 2.0 by promoting
behavioral health, and addressing root causes of health; by reducing violence and promoting
economic development.
CDPH Staff
Anel Ruiz joined the team as Director of Public Affairs in mid-December and brings 12 years of
experience in communications and community engagement in the private, non-profit and public
sectors. She is working with the entire CDPH Team to ensure that the services, resources and
impact of the work of the department is known by all.
Board of Health Member Anniversaries
 Horace Smith, M.D.
January 18 (2012 - 5 years)
I’d like to thank him for his years of dedicated service to residents of the City of Chicago
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez also welcomed students and a member of the
public and provided an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in
matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health. Also, due to current
external world events, she emphasized that we should remain focus on our priorities.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
 Environmental ordinance. Last month the Mayor introduced a CDPH ordinance to strengthen
City enforcement of certain environmental provisions. It would increase outdated fines for
violators of laws on hazards ranging from prohibited dumping to excess debris to chemical
spills. The measure also includes wording clarifications to align the code with state law and
improve enforceability, with small fixes such as changing "pollution" to "windborne particulate
matter."
 Food safety. The Office of the Inspector General released a report affirming something we
have long been raising: that CDPH has not had the resources to conduct enough inspections of
restaurants and other food establishments to be in compliance with state law. The food is safe,
but state law and federal standards require more frequent inspections. Part of the problem is
inadequate funding from the state government. The state grant that funds such programs is
proportionally far lower for Chicago than for other cities; if the dollars were in proportion to
3

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 20, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street







population, we would be receiving 50% more from the state—and we would probably receive
even more if the allocation accounted for the number of food establishments per capita. We are
exploring ways to address the issue and will let you know as things develop.
Heroin. We are in the early stages of implementing the recommendations of the Heroin Task
Force, which released its report in October. We are developing a plan to ensure more heroin
addiction treatment in areas of the city that need it, as well as a public education campaign to
ensure residents have good information on opioid use disorder, since misconceptions abound.
We will let you know as we complete these plans.
New president. As we change administrations, we are watching the transition closely and
working with the Mayor’s DC office and the Big Cities Health Coalition for avenues to help
ensure health is protected.
Police reform. DOJ released the findings of its 13-month investigation of the Chicago Police
Department to root out patterns of misconduct. While this issue is not based in CDPH, I
wanted to share the administration's response due to the overall relevance to the city and the
inherent relationship between health and safety. The administration has signed an "agreement
in principle" to negotiate a consent decree with the DOJ to solve problems that are systemic
and decades in the making. So far, the City has already taken steps that the DOJ report praised:
o Eliminating the Independent Police Review Authority and creating the Citizen Office of
Police Accountability to enhance the way we investigate claims of misconduct and
provide clarity for officers.
o Equipping every officer who responds to a call for service with a taser.
o Expanding body cameras to seven police districts and announcing that patrol officers in
all districts will have them by the end of this year.
o Revamping training to support officers' ability to de-escalate dangerous situations.
o Starting to grow CPD by 1,000 officers, including promotions to supervisory positions,
while providing the support they need to be successful partners in the community.
o More reforms are needed -- and the Mayor wants to be clear that these reforms are not
being done TO our officers but to SUPPORT our officers. We didn't get here overnight
and won't get out of it overnight -- but we do need to enact reforms to improve our
police department and help officers be more proactive and engaged with the
communities they serve.

Presentation: CDPH Legislative Affairs - “Being Responsive to Key Stakeholders,”
presented by Charles Watkins, Director of Legislative Affairs.
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment:
 Who will receive mental health training? The pilot project will provide free mental health
training to schools, faith-based institutions and community organizations with the goal of
training more than 400 community members over the next six months in Police Districts
10, 11 and 15 - largely the Austin, North Lawndale and East/West Garfield communities.
 Is UIC evaluating the effectiveness of the mental health training? Yes, UIC is evaluating
the training.
 The Mental Task Force commends the city for initiated this project.
4

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: January 20, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:18 a.m.

Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, February 15, 2017, 9:00 a.m.

5

 