MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
May 29, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, May 29, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois.
The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 10:33 A.M. Present were
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Lee Gould, Maribeth Vander Weele and Michael Holewinski.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of May 29, 2014. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
As you know in video gaming there are a lot of bad apples. In Illinois people want to make
money without proper licensing. Many haven’t gone through the vetting process and have
approached people even though they are not licensed.
Senate Bill 2797, sponsored by Senator Ira Silverstein and Representative Scott Drury is an
essential piece of video gaming legislation. The bill establishes an exclusion list for video
gaming. The video gaming exclusion list will operate in an identical manner to the riverboat
gambling exclusion list administered without controversy by the IGB since the early 1990s. An
exclusion list prohibits a small number of notorious individuals, often connected with organized
crime, from engaging in all gaming-related activities. Every casino gaming jurisdiction in the
United States has an exclusion list. In Nevada, the exclusion list has been credited with driving
organized crime out of the casino industry. Based on the universality of exclusion lists in all
gaming jurisdictions, there is absolutely no good reason to be against this legislation.
The exclusion list will also serve the important function of protecting licensed locations against
entering into deals with unscrupulous operators. The names of persons on the list will be posted
on the Illinois Gaming Board website. By checking this posted list, the locations will be warned
not to do business with these individuals.
An exclusion list is crucial in the video gaming context because the huge number of locations
and lack of continuous personal surveillance by Board agents makes day-to-day regulatory
oversight more difficult, increasing the importance of ensuring that unacceptable individuals are
excluded in advance. Posting the names of excluded individuals on the Board’s website will
also serve the important function of protecting licensees from entering into deals with notorious
individuals.

 The bill’s opponents repeatedly argued that it would result in a loss of employment by
waitresses, bar tenders and other lower-level employees who might have a criminal past. The
exclusion list is designed to keep out of gaming only a very small number of notorious
individuals whose scope of activities is significant enough to threaten the integrity of gaming.
Currently, there are approximately 21 individuals on the riverboat gambling exclusion list. A
similarly small number of individuals could be expected to be placed on the video gaming
exclusion list.
The Board’s legal staff has worked diligently with JCAR staff on the language of the Board’s
proposed permanent rulemaking intended to supplement Senate Bill 2797. Despite the Board’s
utmost efforts to accommodate JCAR, 4 out of the 6 House JCAR members spoke against
Senate Bill 2797 during House floor debate, a 5th JCAR member voted “no” on the bill, and the
6th House JCAR member, who was in the Speaker’s chair, voted “present.” In fact, comments by
JCAR members speaking against the bill constituted the bulk of the House debate. One JCAR
member went so far as to state that the IGB was attempting to make an end run around JCAR
through this legislation. This is obviously the exact opposite of the truth.
Addressing the audience, Chairman Jaffe also stated that the industry should support this
legislation as well as push for legislation to outlaw campaign contributions in the gambling
industry.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
The Administrator stated that there 17,575 video gaming terminals (the equivalent of positions at
approximately14 casinos) operational at 4,329 locations.
•

Novomatic Americas Sales LLC- Initial Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier
License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve the
Manufacturer, Distributor and Supplier Licenses of Novomatic Americas Sales LLC,
effective May 29, 2014, for a term of one year, expiring in May 2015. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Terminal Operator Licensee Renewals
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to renew the Terminal
Operator Licenses LZ Entertainment LLC and Tap Room Gaming, LLC,
effective may 29, 2014 for a period of one year, expiring in May 2015. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

•

A.S.A.P. Gaming, Inc. – Terminal Operator License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal
Operator License of A.S.A.P. Gaming, Inc., retroactive to April 2014 for a

2

 period of one year, expiring in April 2015. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Hyperactive Gaming, LLC – Terminal Operator License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to renew the Terminal
Operator License of Hyperactive Gaming, LLC, effective May 29, 2014 for a
period of one year, expiring in May 2015. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. Member Gould abstained. The Board approved the Motion by a 3-0-1 vote.

•

Illinois Gaming Investors LLC – Terminal Operator License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal
Operator License of Illinois Gaming Investors LLC, effective May 29, 2014 for a
period of one year, expiring in May 2015. Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. Member Vander Weele abstained. The Board approved the Motion by a 3-0-1
vote.

•

Torch, LLC – Terminal Operator License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to deny the renewal of
the Terminal Operator License of Torch, LLC. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Chicago Gaming Distributors, LLC – Initial Terminal Operator License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to approve Chicago
Gaming Distributors, LLC for a Terminal Operator License effective May 29,
2014 for a period of one year, expiring in May 2015. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Royal Flush Gaming, LLC – Initial Terminal Operator License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to deny Royal Flush
Gaming, LLC for a Terminal Operator License. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Win Gaming, Inc.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to deny Win Gaming,
Inc. for a Terminal Operator License. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve 1 application for
Technician Licenses and 48 applications for Terminal Handler Licenses and that the
Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the following applicants: Robert Nowak,
Michael Schupp, John Gavin and Ashok Purohit. Member Vander Weele seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved to approve 164
applications for Video Gaming Location Licenses, and that the Administrator
issue a Notice of Denial to the following applicants:
o Donald Johnson d/b/a Rail City Saloon
o Ernesto Leon
o Jetante Moore
o Kelly Bush
o Navarro Entertainment, Inc.
o Peoria Speakeasy, Inc.
o Ruchi 8, Inc.
o Timothy James Bulak
o Gayle’s Monroe Tap, Inc.
o Buddyz McHenry, Inc.
o Don Kar, Inc.
o James Shelton d/b/a Silver Moon
o James Shelton d/b/a Jimbo’s
o Tommy’s Sports Bar & Eatery, LLC
o P.T.’s Mescher & Associates, LLC
o Shelly Sheppard, Mikel Sheppard, Kimberly Rose d/b/a R Place Off Of
45
o Sandbar Bar & Grille, Inc.
o Livingston Gas & Grocery, Inc.
o Ghanshym, Inc.
o 2James LLC
o Sherman Athletic Club
o Blue Ridge Club
o S.A.T.T. Enterprises, LLC d/b/a B&R Grocery
o Bravo Pizza of Poplar Grove, Inc. d/b/a Bravo Pizza of South Beloit
o Bravo Pizza of Poplar Grove, Inc. d/b/a Bravo Pizza of Poplar Grove
o 1901 Halstead Street Deli, LLC
o Shanika Cleveland
o Luljeta Abdullai
o Twisted Spoke Saloon Corporation d/b/a Twisted Spoke Saloon in Pekin
o Mr. Lee’s Pub Inc.
o Kenneth E. King
o Gino’s Trattoria, Inc.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

4

 ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING/REQUESTS TO REAPPLY –


Requests for Hearing
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved to deny the requests for
hearing from DDLJ, Inc. and Ray Couch III. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.



Requests to Reapply
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve the requests to
reapply from S.T.M.P. Entertainment LLC, Wiley-Mumford Post #764 of the
American Legion, Inc., La Malinche Bar and Grill Inc. and Alton Truck Stop LLC,
and deny the request from Doc’s Diner Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:58 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.

Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 