MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 27, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: NO OFFICIAL BOARD ACTION WAS TAKEN AT THIS SPECIAL MEETING.
On Monday, October 27, 2008 a Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois. At 9:50 a.m. the following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James Sullivan.
At 9:50 a.m. on Monday, October 27, 2008, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11) and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to
discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following
subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personnel matters.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:10 p.m. The Board
immediately went into open session in order to tour proposed locations for the 10th Owner’s
License.
At approximately 12:55 p.m. the Board convened at the Hawthorne Race Track in Stickney,
Illinois. The Board met at the Expo Centre entrance and proceeded to the first floor. Ed Pilarz,
Joe Canfora and Tim Carey addressed the Board and all in attendance about the changes
intended for the first floor of the Grandstand in order to accommodate the gaming operation.
The Board then proceeded to the second floor of the Grandstand where Mr. Canfora provided
additional information about changes to be made on that level. Mr. Canfora also explained how
the gaming operation would be located on water. Mr. Canfora explained that the parking garage
located above ground on the first floor would be flooded so that water would rise to the level of
the gaming floor. Mr. Canfora and Mr. Carey commented on the state of horse racing at
Hawthorne Race Track and the projected time-line to open a casino. Mr. Canfora, Mr. Carey and
Mr. Pilarz responded to questions posed by Member Garnder and provided additional
information regarding phase 1, phase 2 and phase 3 of the proposed plan.
The Board then proceeded to the parking area under the first floor of the Grandstand. Mr. Pilarz
explained how the parking area would be modified and flooded with water to comply with the
Riverboat Gambling Act.

 The Board left the Stickney site and proceeded directly to Leona’s Restaurant located at 1455
Ring Road in Calumet City, Illinois. The Board arrived at the Calumet City site at
approximately 2:15 p.m. The Board met at Leona’s Restaurant, which is located to the North of
the proposed site. The Board then drove to the site entrance just South of Ring Road on
Torrence Avenue and proceeded to a parking area located on the undeveloped site. Michael
Comparato addressed the Board at the Site. Mr. Comparato described the boundaries of the site
and the different entrance points. Mr. Comparato then described where the Board was standing
in relation to the proposed casino and related buildings.
Mr. Comparato described how the proposed casino would comply with the “on water”
requirements of the Riverboat Gambling Act. The gaming floor would be located on a basin of
water, not on the river adjacent to the site. Mr. Comparato provided additional information
regarding phases 1 thru 3 of the proposed plan. Mr. Comparato added that there are no
environmental concerns associated with the site. Mr. Comparato concluded with comments
regarding plans for the surrounding area including Torrence Avenue.
The Board left the Calumet City site and proceeded directly to 17010 Halstead Street in Harvey,
Illinois. The Board arrived at the Harvey site at approximately 2:50 p.m. The Board met in the
parking lot and then entered the existing structure located at that location, referred to as the
Summit Labs Building.
Michael Black and Roger Shiels addressed the Board inside the building. Mr. Black and Mr.
Shiels explained how the building would be retro-fitted into a casino operation. Mr. Black
described the dimensions of the structure. Mr. Black explained that the size of the structure
gives great flexibility as to where the gaming floor will ultimately be located. Mr. Black
provided information on the current building occupant and its plans for relocation.
Mr. Shiels provided information on how the gambling floor would be “on water”. Mr. Shiels
stated that they would excavate the floor down to an appropriate depth and employ a structure
similar to another casino in Illinois.
Mayor Eric Kellogg introduced himself and his senior staff to the Board and spoke briefly about
the positive economic impact that the casino would have on Harvey.
Mr. Shiels and Mr. Black described the dimensions of the property surrounding the proposed
site. They explained which parcels were under contract. They also talked about the existing
businesses surrounding the proposed site.
The Board left the Harvey site and proceeded directly to Farm Field on Cicero Avenue, north of
175 Street in Country Club Hills, Illinois. The Board arrived at the Country Club Hills site at
approximately 3:30 p.m. The Board met in a tent located on the footprint of the proposed site.
Mike Reschke addressed the Board on the proposed development of the site. Mr. Reschke
provided an overview and timeline of the construction plans for a casino, hotel, event center,
water park and retail space. Mr. Reschke outlined the highway system that surrounds the site
and mentioned the volume of traffic that flows past the site.

2

 Mayor Dewight Welch introduced himself and certain members of his executive staff. Mayor
Welch spoke on plans for revenue sharing. Mayor Welch spoke on Country Club Hills and the
surrounding area’s needs. Mayor Welch spoke on the success rate of local businesses. Mayor
Welch spoke about the need of the surrounding area for the casino to be located in Country Club
Hills.
William Paulos of Cannery Casinos introduced himself to the Board and provided a brief
overview of his background and experience. Mr. Paulos provided information on his experience
with the development of casinos. Mr. Paulos commented on the location of the proposed site and
the surrounding highway system.
Mayor Welch addressed the Board again regarding Country Club Hills intention to provide
approximately 30 acres of property adjacent to the proposed site to P.A.D.S., (Public Action to
Deliver Shelter).
At approximately 4:05 p.m. the Board adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,

Michael Fries
Chief Counsel

3

 