MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JANUARY 28, 1997
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on January 28, 1997 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present for the entire meeting: J. Thomas Johnson,
Chairman; and Members William B. Browder and Robert F. Vickrey. Board Members
Byron G. Cudmore and Gayl S. Pyatt were present telephonically for the Closed
session only.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’
B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Browder moved
that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1),
(4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 1:32 p.m.
(Board Secretary Note: Only Members Johnson, Vickrey and Browder were
present and voting on items considered in open session.)
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the December 3, 1996 regular meeting. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

1

 Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the December 13, 1996 special meeting. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman's Report
Chairman Johnson reported that last year the Board undertook a survey of the
employees of owner-licensees. Board members anticipate releasing the Employee
Survey Report before the next Board meeting. Chairman Johnson stated that 9,396 out
of 11,722 employees completed the survey. Chairman Johnson summarized the
findings of the survey.
Chairman Johnson reported on credit practices among owner-licensees. He stated that
generally, it appears that the credit practices of licensees are sound. Despite sound
practices, the Chairman asked staff to undertake a review of the credit policies and
practices of licensees. He further requested that staff incorporate the review of
licensee practices as part of the annual licensure renewal process.
The Chairman noted that Hollywood Casino Aurora (“HCA”) requested the authorization
of the game of Poker. The Chairman encouraged commentary from other owner
licensees during HCA’s presentation.
Finally, the Chairman noted that an additional item was added to the Agenda.
Administrator Belletire will give an update on legislation that has been introduced during
the Spring session. This item will be on future agendas while the General Assembly
remains in session.
Administrator's Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts, Underage Patrons, Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations and Credit
Issuance. He noted that for the month of December, 1996 AGR followed a pattern
similar to that of the preceding few months. AGR totaled $85.6 million, largely
unchanged from the November tally and down 11 percent from December, 1995.
Admissions for December equaled those of November and exceeded 1995 levels by
3.3 percent. Administrator Belletire noted that early in January the State of Illinois
received its one billionth dollar in gaming tax revenues.
Administrator Belletire reported: owner-licensee personnel changes; the completion of
Hollywood Casino Corporation’s distribution to HCC shareholder’s of its 80 percent
holdings in the Pratt Hotel Company (now, Greate Bay Casino Corporation); Players
International, Inc.’s December 18, 1996 closing of its amended Line of Credit
agreement; pending Form 1 application withdrawals; and, authorized gaming positions.

2

 Owner Licensees Items
PAR-A-DICE GAMING CORPORATION (“PGC”) - Donna More, representing PGC,
requested renewal of its owner’s license.
Robert Boughner, Executive Vice President and COO of Boyd Gaming Corporation,
updated the Board on events that have occurred since the ownership transfer of PGC.
He stated that a formalized assessment has begun to find ways to enhance the current
facility so that PGC can compete more effectively. Key executives and supervisors on
the property will go through an Executive Management Orientation program to learn the
history of Boyd Gaming and the culture in which Boyd operates.
Maunty Collins, General Manager of Boyd Gaming’s Central Region, reported that all
employees of PGC will be met with to go over the new employee handbook and
benefits plan. Mr. Collins discussed the on-going training programs that PGC
employees will participate in.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Collins to discuss how PGC will address the issues of
promoting Illinois tourism and assisting economic development in 1997. Mr. Collins
stated that PGC is in the process of putting together a new business and marketing
plan for 1997-98. PGC’s main goal is to bring tourism to Illinois to increase market
growth in East Peoria. Mr. Collins also stated that they are working closely with Peoria
officials on various city projects.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Collins to address the Par-A-Dice Hotel’s occupancy levels
and future plans. Mr. Collins indicated that the hotel started out with 25 to 40 percent
occupancy levels but is currently enjoying a 60 percent occupancy rate.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Collins to have an update for the February Board meeting
regarding what investment and disinvestment decisions the Boyd Group has
implemented.
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES, INC. (“SIRCC”) - Mike Ficaro
along with Mike Crider, representing SIRCC, requested renewal of its owner’s license.
Mr. Ficaro also invited the Board to hold the February Board meeting in Metropolis.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Crider to give his view on the competitive situation between
SIRCC and the Evansville, Indiana operation. Mr. Crider responded that the market or
population within a fifty mile radius of the Evansville facility is twice the size of SIRCC’s
market base, affording Evansville a larger AGR and admissions. Mr. Crider stated that
the other factor is distance between major market areas and gaming location. He noted
that the SIRCC and Evansville operations are the same distance from Nashville,
Tennessee but Evansville is one hour closer to the Louisville, Kentucky market. Mr.
Crider concluded that the Evansville operation’s success over the past year is due to a
draw from larger metropolitan areas.

3

 Member Vickrey inquired as to the population of Evansville and Metropolis and what
inter-state highways run between these cities. He also asked Mr. Cider to describe the
impact Evansville has had on SIRCC’s adjusted gross receipts and admissions. Mr.
Crider responded that SIRCC has seen a decrease of approximately 10 percent in
gross revenues and a 5 percent decrease in passenger counts. SIRCC believes they
have offset losses to Evansville with expansion into the Tennessee market. He also
observed there were no inter-state or major highways connecting Metropolis and
Evansville.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Crider to be prepared at the February Board meeting to
discuss further how SIRCC intends to increase their market share.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Crider to be prepared to discuss recent and planned
investments.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA, INC. (“HCA”) - Richard Knight, representing HCA,
requested that Poker be added to the list of approved games in the State of Illinois. Mr.
Knight feels it is time to look at Poker as a viable means of bolstering table game
revenues.
HCA believes the market in Illinois can be a good market for Poker. HCA currently
operates Poker at their facility in Tunica, Mississippi and HCA’s affiliate, the Sands
Hotel in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Mr. Knight introduced Dominic Morreale. Mr.
Morreale has eighteen years of gaming experience. For the last 2 1/2 years he has
been the poker room manager at the HCA Tunica facility.
Mr. Knight and Mr. Morreale covered a variety of concerns HCA believes to be of
importance to the operation of Poker in Illinois. Items discussed were:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dealers would be employees of the owner-licensee;
“Shills” and/or “Proposition Players” will not be allowed;
Dealer tips will be pooled with the tips for all table game staff;
Team play will be prevented by three levels of supervision (the dealer,
supervisor and surveillance);
Poker games to be offered (Seven Card Stud, Omaha and Hold-Em);
Rules and warnings will be listed in the Poker room and a table plaque will
indicate the type of game being played and the limits for that table;
House rules, table plaques, surveillance procedures and Internal Controls
should assure Poker games are conducted properly;
Disruptive players or those suspected of collusion would be evicted from the
riverboat;
How the House will be paid: taking a “rake”; or an hourly fee (charged per
player) collected at the top and bottom of the hour;
Day(s) and time(s) Poker will be offered;
Competition from adjoining states;
Instituting Poker on a test basis; and,
4

 •

Poker tournaments.

Chairman Johnson asked the Administrator to develop a resolution reflecting
appropriate safeguards, for the play of Poker in Illinois.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORT (reorganization) - Chairman Johnson announced that
this will be deferred to the February Board meeting, due to the complexity of the
reorganization.
ALTON GAMING COMPANY - Mark Heffernan, representing Alton Gaming Company,
requested approval of Lori Ann Elliot as Slot Manager. Member Vickrey moved that
the Board approve Lori Ann Elliot as a Level 1 occupational licensee Alton
Gaming Company. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensees
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Innovative Gaming, Inc.’s request
to withdraw its application for a Supplier’s license. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve 159 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 389 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 6 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Vickrey moved that the Board deny the hearing requests submitted by the
following due to their failure to comply with Board Rule 3000.405: Patricia Gant,
Armel Gines, Laura Moreno, and Derrick Williamson. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Empress
River Casino Joliet (“Empress”) be issued and that Empress be fined in the
amount of $50,000.
The complaint involves Empress’ failure to perform
preventive maintenance in a timely fashion. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey commented on the seriousness of this matter. He reminded all ownerlicensees that in July, 1996 the Board passed a resolution permitting waivers to Board
rule 3000.510. Member Vickrey further asked licensees to stay on top of the preventive
maintenance schedules to ensure public safety.

5

 Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Olegario
Valdez be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves Mr.
Valdez’ theft of tokens from the Grand Victoria Casino. Member Browder seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Discussion Items
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE - Administrator Belletire briefed the Board on two bills that
have been introduced in the Spring legislative session.
The first, HB117, introduced by Representative Steve Davis, is a measure that
eliminates the admission tax and increases the wagering tax from 20 percent to 25
percent. It also creates a cruising season (April 1-October 31) in which the owner
licensee may conduct dockside gaming provided that the licensee makes 100 gaming
excursions during the cruising season. Administrator Belletire stated that another
provision allows for licensed owners to conduct gambling 24 hours a day. Gambling is
currently not allowed 24 hours a day by Board policy.
The second measure, HB213, introduced by Representative Brunsvold, permits
gambling on barges, creating permanent dockside casino facilities. It also allows a
licensee to receive permission from the Board to operate at a second home dock
location and move up to two-thirds of its gaming positions to that second location. It
also allows for a renewal period of up to four years.
Administrator Belletire asked for guidance from the Board.
Member Vickrey moved that the Administrator advance to legislators the Board’s
position to oppose any 24 hour gaming in Illinois. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Vickrey moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:55 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

6

 