MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
NOVEMBER 19, 1991
PEORIA, ILLINOIS

A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 1:00 p.m. on
November 19, 1991 in the chambers of the Peoria City Council in Peoria,
Illinois. The Special Meeting was called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and
notice was duly and timely given to each Board member and to the general public
in conformity with Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present: William Chamblin, J. Thomas
Johnson and Raymond Niepert. Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. was absent.
Also present were Morton E. Friedman, Administrator; Deputy Administrators
J. Thomas Hutchison, Joseph Mc Quaid and Marcy Wolf; Staff Counsel Susan
Gouinlock; other Gaming Board Staff, members of the media and the general
public.
In absence of the Chairman, Administrator Morton E. Friedman convened the
meeting at 1:06 p.m. He explained that the Chairman was unavoidably absent and
observed that Member Gibson has tendered his resignation to the Governor's
Office due to a conflict with another salaried public office that statutorily
rendered him unable to continue as a member of the Illinois Gaming Board. Mr.
Friedman invited a motion to be made to appoint a Chairman Pro-tempore for the
purposes of the meeting.
Member Chamblin moved that Member Johnson be named Chairman Pro-tempore
for the purposes of the meeting. Member Niepert seconded the motion. The
Administrator called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was adopted by voice vote.
Chairman Pro-tempore Johnson called the meeting to order.
The first order of business was the approval of the minutes of the Regular
Meeting of October 25, 1991. Member Niepert moved that the minutes be approved
as submitted. Member Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned the Greater Peoria Riverboat
Corporation. The Chairman first asked the Administrator for a report concerning
the applicant's request for approval of a change in ownership.
Mr. Friedman told the Board that the applicant had expanded the number of
investors involved and asked that the Board approve their applications. He
noted no derogatory information had been developed during the course of
background investigations. Those individuals were:
Dr. Dale M. Geiss, Peoria, Illinois
Joseph E. O'Brien, Peoria, Illinois
Jacob F. Barnes, Council Bluffs, Iowa
Richard Dickens, St. Joseph, Missouri
D. James Jumer, Peoria, Illinois

 Harold Miller, Peoria, Illinois
John Miller, Peoria, Illinois
William J. O'Neil, Peoria, Illinois
Monte J. Brannon, Peoria, Illinois
James J. and Janice M. Heinz, Creve Coeur, Illinois
William D. Niemeyer, East Peoria, Illinois
Clarance F. Schielein, Peoria, Illinois
Duane A. Cassano, Peoria, Illinois
Member Chamblin moved that the applications of the individuals be approved
on one roll call. Member Niepert seconded the motion. The Chairman called for
the

 