MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 27, 1992
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on October 27,
1992 at 10:00 A.M. The meeting was held via video-conference in the facilities
of the Department of Central Management Services at the State of Illinois Center
in Chicago, Illinois and at 120 West Jefferson Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The meeting was called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and notice was duly
and timely given to each Board Member and to the general public in conformity
with Section 42.02 of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present in Chicago, Illinois: William J.
Kunkle, Jr., Chairman and Members Robert F. Vickrey and Michael H. Zaransky.
Member William J. Chamblin, Jr. was present via telephone from Powell, Wyoming.
Member J. Thomas Johnson joined the meeting in progress in Chicago, Illinois.
Additionally in Chicago, Administrator Morton E. Friedman and Chief Legal
Counsel were present. In attendance in Springfield, Illinois were Deputy
Administrator J. Thomas Hutchison and the Board Secretary. Members of the media
and the general public were in attendance both in Chicago and Springfield.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at
10:02 A.M.
The first order of business concerned a request for approval for
additional games.
Mr. Zaransky moved that the games known as Enhanced Black Jack, Sic Bo,
Red Dog and Give-away be approved for play. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business concerned the renewal of Supplier's Licenses.
The Administrator reported that staff had reviewed supplier activities on a
continuing basis and recommended license renewal.
Mr. Vickrey moved that Suppliers Licenses be renewed for Casino Cruise,
Inc., International Game Technology, Paul-Son Dice & Card Inc., Universal
Distributing of Nevada, Inc., Kilmartin Industries, Inc., and Greate Bay Casino
Corp. Mr. Chamblin seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously.
The next order of business concerned pending litigation. The
Administrator briefly discussed litigation and requested that the Board retire
to Closed Session.
Mr. Zaransky discussed his observation that the injunction issued in St.
Clair County challenges the statutory authority of the Board to grant licenses
and urged that the Board act aggressively to secure reversal of the St. Clair
order. He further noted that he would request a Special Meeting of the Board as
soon as possible to consider pending applications for owners licenses.

 Mr. Zaransky moved the Board retire to Closed Session. Mr. Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously and the Board retired to Closed
Session at 10:13 A.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened its Open Session at 11:00 A.M.
members of the Board were present.

All

Mr. Zaransky moved that the Board charge the staff to move aggressively in
seeking a favorable and expeditious resolution to litigation filed in St. Clair
County with respect to the application received from Arch-View Casino Cruises,
Inc. Mr. Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Chamblin
moved the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Johnson seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously and the Board stood adjourned at 11:02
A.M.
Respectfully submitted,

_____________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 