STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on August 11, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Colleen M. Harvey acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 14, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the July 14, 2009 meeting. Member Anderson
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from July 1 through July 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board for review, and
the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-RC-08-029
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of
Cook/Office of the Cook County Public Defender

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge
Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order, and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on
its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-RC-09-012
Chicago Joint Board, Local 200, Retail, Wholesale, Dep't Store Union/County of Cook
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a Decision and Order on
June 19, 2009, directing an election, and the Employer, County of Cook, filed an appeal and seeks oral
argument. Acting General Counsel Harvey reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and whether oral
argument was warranted, and recommended that the Board deny the request for oral argument and uphold the
executive director's order. After discussion, Chairman Gallagher moved to deny the request for oral
argument. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
After a discussion of the merits, Chairman Gallagher moved to accept the executive director's order, but the
motion died for lack of a second. Member Anderson moved to reject the executive director's order, but the
motion died for lack of a second.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher remarked that there was nothing to report with regard to either legislative or fiscal
matters. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was
not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois,
this 15th day of September, 2009.

 