MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 20, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 20, 1998 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and Members
William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Terry A. Scrogum and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan McDonald, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack, other
members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:32 a.m. Member Browder moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:58 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed
sessions of the September 8, 1998 regular meeting. Member Scrogum seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the closed session minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from
February, 1998 through and including August, 1998 be made available for public inspection
as required under the Open Meetings Act. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
The Chairman noted that Complaints and Disciplinary Actions would be considered
immediately following the Administrator’s report. This change will apply only to this month’s
agenda.
The Board will hold a holiday season dinner in conjunction with the December Board meeting.
On Monday, November 30, the Board and senior staff will dine at La Luce restaurant located at
Ogden and Lake Streets in Chicago. A small portion of the evening will include a brief
Executive Session by the Board. The Board will reconvene Tuesday morning, December 1 at
9:30 a.m. retiring to Executive Session.
The Board will announce as a Policy Item on today’s agenda proposed 1999 Board meeting
dates. All interested parties are encouraged to comment on the proposed dates by contacting
the Administrator.
Chairman Johnson asked Chief Counsel Cusack to cover two of the Board Policy items on the
agenda.
Board Policy Items
RULES – Chief Counsel Cusack reported on the status of rule changes that contain revisions to
the way in which the Board defines Key Persons of licensees. The Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules considered the rules and issued a No Objection certificate. Ms. Cusack
asked the Board to authorize staff to proceed with the final publishing and adoption of the Key
Person rules.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve the final publishing and adoption of the Key
Person related rules submitted to the Board at this October meeting. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
ROCKFORD CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (“RCD”) – Ms. Cusack reported that RCD filed an
application for an Owner’s license with the Board in July of 1995, after the Board issued the tenth
and final license. Staff did not process or investigate the application. Ms. Cusack asked the Board
to authorize the Administrator to refund the initial application fee to Palace Development, LLC the
representative of RCD.
Having reviewed the staff’s report, Member Pyatt moved that the Board direct the
Administrator to refund the Owner’s application fee initially submitted by Rockford Capital
Development to Palace Development, LLC. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Administrator’s Report

2

 Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted Gross
Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance; and Internal
Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported that:
• William Koman, Jr. resigned as a member of the board of directors of Casino Queen.
He has been replaced by his brother, James Koman.
• The U.S. stock market has hit gaming stocks hard. Illinois companies are almost
uniformly at or near their lowest price in years.
• Staff is in the process of developing an employment application form to be used by
all owner licensees in screening new personnel. Two draft versions of the
application have been sent to licensees for comment. Once responses are received
from licensees a final version will be presented to the Board.
• Proposed revisions to the Business Entity Disclosure Form have been made and will
be shared with owner licensees for comments.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
The Administrator stated that a variety of activities have been called into question with regard
to the operations of the Alton Belle. During the course of this year, a number of incidents were
documented by IGB staff involving various Internal Control System violations. Though most
of the violations were of a minor nature, the overall volume of violations and the repeat nature
of several violations, warrant consideration of a complaint resolution. The Administrator
added that he was not satisfied that all of the violations were properly followed up upon by IGB
staff at the docksite or by AGC management in various departments of the Alton Belle. Staff
has summarized the issues in a complaint action. Staff concluded that there are departmental
issues, in particular, with casino operations, cage and credit operations, and surveillance
operations that require attention by the licensee.
The Administrator stated that changes were made in the assignment of IGB personnel at the
Alton docksite. Gaming Board personnel from other docksites were brought in to evaluate the
operation. With the cooperation of the licensee, staff has compiled recommended action steps
to improve operations at Alton.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Alton Gaming
Company (“AGC”) and fine AGC in the amount of $125,000. The complaint pertains to the
repeated failures of AGC’s Department of Casino Operations, Cage and Credit Department,
Surveillance Department, Security Department, Administrative Department and AGC’s
management’s failure to comply with the procedures set forth in AGC’s Internal Control
System as well as AGC’s overall indifference to regulatory compliance. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

3

 Administrator Belletire stated that earlier in 1998 three complaints were issued against
Players/SIRCC with regard to the credit practices of the licensee. Collectively the three complaints
carried a total fine of $100,000. The licensee requested a hearing on all three complaints and
indicated a willingness to resolve the matters without a full hearing. Based upon a proposal from
the licensee, staff recommended that the Board agree to a consolidated, single complaint to replace
the previously issued three complaints. The revised complaint would carry a fine of $100,000.
Having considered the staff’s report, Member Browder moved that the Board withdraw
disciplinary action numbers DC-98-5, DC-98-6 and DC-98-7 and issue DC-98-5A against
SIRCC with a fine of $100,000. The revised complaint against SIRCC is for its failure to
comply with the company’s established credit practices. Member Pyatt seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Administrator advised the Board that in June of 1997, the Board issued a complaint action
against Robert Kegley, a Key Person of Empress Casino Joliet. Mr. Kegley paid a $15,000 fine and
was operating under an administrative sanction imposed by the Board that placed limitations upon
his entering the property of the Empress Casino. Mr. Kegley has complied with this sanction and
the Administrator recommended that the sanction be lifted.
Member Browder moved that the Board lift the restriction imposed on Robert Kegley in June
of 1997 prohibiting him from entering the premises of Empress-Joliet except for purposes of
conducting official business. Through this motion Member Browder also moved to lift Mr.
Kegley’s previously imposed obligation to report each of his entries on the premises to the
Administrator or his designee. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.

Owner Licensee Items
ALTON GAMING COMPANY (“AGC”) – Don Malloy, representing AGC, requested renewal
of its Owner’s license. Mr. Malloy introduced several members of the AGC organization.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Malloy to comment on the complaint issued against AGC. Mr.
Malloy stated that the management of AGC is going to work with staff to make every
correction necessary. AGC’s goal is to comply with the requirements and to run its operation
in accordance with the Internal Controls and with the Board regulations.
Administrator Belletire reported on notable concerns not covered in the complaint. He noted
that Jimmy Connors, the largest single shareholder of AGC, has not provided the Board with
appropriate disclosure documents in conjunction with AGC’s renewal. The Administrator
observed that Mr. Connors’ filing is his obligation as well as that of the company. The
Administrator commented on a series of changes that were instituted by Argosy with regard to
the internal audit process. Staff did not receive timely information and feels not all the changes
are in the best interest of regulatory control. In response to the complaint action adopted by the

4

 Board, staff have developed for Board consideration proposed conditions and improvement
requirements applicable to the renewal of the Alton Belle.
The Administrator stated that overall the relicensure report of AGC is sobering and
disappointing, but noted that the Board has always expected that people will be confronted with
their shortcomings and given an opportunity to institute corrections. Staff believes this longest
standing licensee deserves this opportunity. The Administrator noted that top Argosy and AGC
personnel over the past several weeks have shown a willingness to address the concerns of the
IGB in a serious and meaningful fashion.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of the Alton Gaming
Company for a period of one-year expiring October of 1999. In renewing the license, the
Board hereby orders Alton to do the following by no later than December 31, 1998:
1. Undertake a comprehensive review of the Internal Control System (“ICS”) and submit
revisions that address the areas of concern as identified by the Administrator.
2. Submit to the Administrator a proposed plan revising Alton’s management structure and
personnel assignments. This plan shall address the specific concerns identified by the
Administrator.
3. In conjunction with the aforementioned revisions of the ICS and management structure,
Alton must develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the immediate and
continued training of all its personnel.
4. Alton must immediately submit a plan revising the scope, responsibility and supervision
of the company’s internal audit functions. This plan must address the concerns specified
by the Administrator and must be in place for the period beginning December 1, 1998
through November 1999.
5. Alton must submit by December 31, 1998 a budget committing the company to a capital
improvement plan over the next two years. This budget must contain assurances that
Alton’s equipment and physical plant will be properly maintained and replaced, as
necessary.
6. Except as expressly authorized by this Board, Alton is to refrain from issuing and
authorizing any dividend distributions to Argosy Gaming Company that exceed AGC’s
net earnings.
7. Alton shall provide, on or before December 31, 1998, a revised internal disciplinary
system for its employees. This internal disciplinary system must be designed to
strengthen and reinforce the company’s regulatory compliance.

5

 8. Alton shall work with the Administrator to develop a monthly reporting system, which
provides the Board with updated information in the areas specified by the Administrator.
9. On or before December 31, 1998, Alton is to present to the Board a solution to assure that
Argosy shareholder Jimmy Connors will comply with the IGB’s regulatory process.
10. In conjunction with its review of the aforementioned ICS, Alton shall revise its
procurement procedures as specified by the Administrator and develop by December 31,
1998 a plan under which Alton will attain specific targeted Illinois-vendor purchasing
levels.

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
ELGIN RIVERBOAT RESORTS (“ERR”) – David Belding, representing ERR, requested renewal
of its Owner’s license. Mr. Belding introduced several members of the ERR organization. Nancy
Fishman, the Executive Director of the Grand Victoria Foundation, was also present.
Administrator Belletire reported that there were no significant discrepancies or concerns raised
during ERR’s renewal period and recommended ERR for renewal.
Member Vickrey asked Mr. Belding about a ground lease agreement with the City of Elgin.
Member Vickrey asked for the background on the agreement, approximate annual payment to the
City, and the geographical area which the ground lease covers.
Mr. Belding stated the geographical area is North of the parking facility and pavilion. Part of the
area has been turned into a city park and surface parking. Most of the parking is used by
downtown businesses. He further stated that 3 percent ($4 million) per year of ERR’s net income
is paid in quarterly installments to the City for the ground lease.
Member Vickrey asked if Mr. Belding recalled the agreement between ERR and the City of Elgin
as to the reconstruction of Grove Street. Neither Mr. Belding, nor his staff present, recalled the
specifics of the agreement. Mr. Belding stated that Peter Simon, Senior Vice President of Circus
Circus Development Corporation, was directly involved in the negotiations.
Chairman Johnson asked Mr. Belding if the City of Elgin has any plans to implement a
refurbishment of the Crocker Theater. Mr. Belding stated that the City has had meetings with the
owner of the property and potential developers who have an interest in acquiring the property. Mr.
Belding stated that ERR is ready to assist the City and any prospective developer and would be
pleased to see a refurbishment of the Crocker Theater.
Chairman Johnson asked the Administrator to query city officials as to long term development
plans. The Chairman observed that the Board would like to have a better understanding as to how
local tax revenues were impacting various parts of the City of Elgin.
6

 Member Pyatt asked the Administrator to inquire of the City as to the status of its efforts with the
Crocker Theater.
Member Vickrey noted that the City has another fund called the Riverboat Lease Fund Projects
(“RLFP”). In the RLFP’s 1998 budget, it details what they use the revenue stream for. There is
nothing in the document that addresses the Crocker Theater.
Member Vickrey complimented ERR on its operation in Elgin and its assistance with economic
development in the City of Elgin.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of Elgin Riverboat
Resorts (“ERR”) for a period of one year expiring October of 1999. In renewing the license,
the Board commends ERR for upholding its commitment to the Board to establish and
maintain a community improvement fund to enhance programs affecting education,
economic development and environmental issues. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO QUEEN, INC. – Bill Roberts, representing Casino Queen, requested approval of the
Casino Queen hotel financing.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Casino Queen’s request to amend its line of
credit with Bank of America from the current $9 million to $14 million. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
DES PLAINES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (“Harrah’s”) – Tom O’Donnell, representing
Harrah’s, requested approval of Christopher Riley as the Director of Finance and Administration.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Christopher R. Riley as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Des Plaines Development Corporation. Member Scrogum seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA, INC. (“HCA”) – Susan Gouinlock, representing HCA,
requested approval of Shannon Pratt as Vice President of Operations.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Michael Shannon Pratt as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
PLAYERS/SIRCC – Michael Crider, representing SIRCC, requested approval of Vincent Naimoli
as a Key Person.

7

 Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Vincent M. Naimoli as a Key Person of
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. Member Browder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Supplier Licenses
BALLY GAMING – James Montana, representing Bally Gaming, requested renewal of its
Supplier’s license.
Paul Lofgren, Vice President of Regulatory Compliance and Governmental Affairs, gave an
overview of Bally Gaming. Mr. Lofgren stated that Bally Gaming was acquired in the summer of
1996 by Alliance Gaming. The company is currently licensed in 90 jurisdictions. Mr. Lofgren
stated that there have been management changes and an integration of the operations and cultures
of both companies to create a unified and successful operation. Mr. Lofgren reported on several
new games that Bally is introducing that are currently in use in Nevada and will eventually be
offered in Illinois.
Administrator Belletire reported that staff recommend that Bally’s license be issued for a four-year
period. The Administrator stated that in 1997 Bally was issued a restricted one-year license due to
a problem with the accuracy of quarterly reports filed by Bally Gaming. During the past year the
quarterly reports have been filed on a timely basis and appear to be correct. One deficiency noted
was that Bally, through its Systems Division, sold slot-monitoring devices in Illinois that were not
reported. Due to this problem, the Administrator recommended that the Board place a reporting
requirement upon Bally related to the accuracy of their filings with IGB.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board renew Bally Gaming’s Supplier’s license for a period
of four years, expiring October of 2002. In renewing the license the Board orders Bally to
report to the Board in October of 1999 the extent to which Bally has complied with
quarterly, and, other compliance reporting requirements. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Roberts requested approval of Morris Goldstein as a Key Person of Alliance Gaming.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Morris Goldstein as a Key Person of Alliance
Gaming Corporation. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

Occupational Licenses
Member Browder moved that the Board approve 147 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 356 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 3
applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 1 application for an Occupational
License, Level 3. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

8

 Board Policy Items
1999 BOARD MEETING DATES – Chairman Johnson reported that the following Board
meeting dates have been suggested for the 1999 calendar year: January 19, February 16, March
23, April 27, May 18, June 22, July 20, September 14, October 26, December 7. All interested
parties are asked to submit any comments or conflicts to the Administrator.
Member Scrogum suggested that the Board consider having one or two meetings in the cities
where Owner licensees are located. Chairman Johnson stated that the dates and locations
would be considered at the December meeting.
ILLINOIS CASINO GAMING ASSOCIATION (“ICGA”) – David Belding, representing
ICGA and Peter Bensinger, representing Bensinger DuPont & Associates, gave a presentation
on the status of the compulsive gamblers Helpline in Illinois.
Mr. Belding stated that in February of 1996 the ICGA contracted with Bensinger DuPont &
Associates and the Illinois Council on Problem and Compulsive Gambling to provide a
compulsive gambling program which ICGA funds. The two service providers were retained to
staff the Helpline and to train professional counselors and act as the liaison for public
information. Mr. Belding stated that during the 2½-year period over 10,000 phone calls were
answered. Of that figure 5,500 calls were from persons with gambling problems or relatives of
such persons.
Mr. Belding reported that after an extensive review, the ICGA board has chosen to consolidate
all of the services provided by the Helpline with Bensinger DuPont & Associates. Effective
September 1, 1998, Bensinger DuPont took over sole responsibility for monitoring the
Helpline, training the counselors and providing media services.
Mr. Belding stated that the Helpline number has changed to 1-800-GAMBLER. This phone
number is currently being promoted with new collateral materials available at all of the casino
operations in Illinois. The prior number, 877-888-4700, was changed due to the possibility of
people not recognizing that it was a toll-free number.
Peter Bensinger reported on the services provided by Bensinger DuPont & Associates and on
future initiatives. Services are being increased to provide more intensive training and wider
public awareness of the Helpline number. The new services will include three types of
training: Basic Training, Advanced Training and Supervisory Training. Mr. Bensinger
reported that ICGA has provided additional funding to allow for quality assurance follow-up at
3 month, 6 month, 9 month and one year intervals after an initial call is received.
Mr. Bensinger briefed the Board on the integration of the new training programs and the
creation of a liaison to work with compulsive gamblers who find themselves caught up in the
criminal justice system. Mr. Bensinger stated that his company will continue to promote the
9

 Helpline through public service announcements via a major network, radio, talk shows and the
media to help reach more people.
Chairman Johnson thanked Mr. Belding and Mr. Bensinger on the industry’s efforts to focus
attention on this issue.
Administrator Belletire thanked M/Sgt. Mark Finn, the Empress docksite supervisor. M/Sgt.
Finn spent six weeks in Alton assessing the situation and worked with the Alton staff to
formulate future directions. The Administrator also stated that Lt. Glenn Leonard, of the
Chicago office, will head up the internal work group assisting Alton in the weeks ahead.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Scrogum moved that the
Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

10

 