February 14th, 2018 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:03 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “2/14/2018”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin
Andre Youngblood, Johnny Miller. Alejandro Silva absent.
COMMENDATIONS: President Carter presented commendations to CTA staff.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board M
January 10th, 2018. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed wi
votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board recessed into Executive Session, pursuant to Sections 2C
Illinois Open Meetings Act. Upon return to Open Session, the Board moved, seconded, and approv
unanimous vote, Board Agenda Item 5-A: an ordinance authorizing the execution of a col
bargaining agreement containing the terms of a tentative agreement with the Amalgamate
Union, Local 241 and 308.

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Item 6
resolution changing the time of the March, 2018 Regular Transit Board Meeting. After being move
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Kevin Irvine presented
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (February) report on Finance and approved the Janua
10th, 2018 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other Committee agenda ite
listedon the Board agenda,were presented,reviewed,discussed,
placedon the omnibus,and
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved February 2018 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 018-11 through 018-16.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”,
February 14th, 2018 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None
1

 MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn ththe
, 2018
February 14
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 