MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MARCH 27, 1995
EAST DUBUQUE, ILLINOIS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on March 27, 1995
at the Silver Eagle Pavilion, East Dubuque, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, J. William Roberts and Robert F.
Vickrey.
In addition, Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey and Thomas Swoik; the representatives of the press and the
general public were in attendance.
The meeting was called to give the licensee and the community the
opportunity to give testimony for purposes of the potential relicensure of the
Silver Eagle Casino - HP, Inc.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 11:00 a.m.
Joseph Duellman, gave a history of HP, Inc. and their dedication to
maintain effective and strong Internal Controls. He stated that they have a
strong relationship with local vendors and more than 95% of the current
employees are local residents. In 1994, payroll expenditures totaled over $9
million. Hotel tax revenues have increased 30% since the Silver Eagle began
operations. Gaming taxes generated for Jo Daviess County are about $2.5
million. He also discussed the competitive environment due to the passage of
revisions in the Iowa gaming law. The changes have allowed Iowa to obtain
market dominance on the Illinois/Iowa border. Total gaming taxes paid by month,
total gaming win by month, table games win by month, and admission are all
significantly impacted by the competitive environment.
Bill McFadden, past Chairman of the Jo Daviess County Board spoke on
behalf of the County Board. The County budget is $14 million a year, some $1.5
million of which has come from the riverboat. The County Board has utilized
virtually all of the local riverboat gaming revenues for infrastructure projects
and economic development grants. The County Board supports the relicensure of
HP, Inc.
Darryl Barklow, President of East Dubuque Savings Bank and President of
the local economic development authority, discussed the development of the area
where the Silver Eagle now resides. Over the past fifteen years the county has
been trying to develop the corridor along the highway but could not due to lack
of sewer and water. Due to the gaming taxes generated by the Silver Eagle, new
businesses, jobs and housing were created out in the corridor due to the
infrastructure that was built. He stated that the money being generated is
going back into the community. Many local businesses have reported increased
sales since the Silver Eagle began. Mr. Barklow supports the relicensure of the
Silver Eagle.
Steven Allendorf, Sheriff of Jo Daviess County, addressed the issues of
tourism and the potential increase in crime. He reported that fears over
increased crime associated with the casino project have not been raised.
Changes in crime statistics in the County are not, according to the Sheriff,

 attributable to the boat.
impact on the county.

Sheriff Allendorf feels the riverboat has a positive

Sara Fisher, citizen of Galena, raised three questions pertaining to the
Fish and Wildlife Refugee adjacent to the Silver Eagle. She asked that the
Board respond to these questions before making a final decision on the
relicensure of the Silver Eagle.
John Martinson, citizen of Galena questioned the process of relicensure
and whether the Board will look at the economic impact of gambling before
relicensing HP, Inc.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Roberts
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The
motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board stood adjourned at
11:55 a.m. Members of the Board, along with staff then toured the Silver Eagle.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

 