STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 15, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD April 1, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the April 1, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from March 1 through March 31, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-11-126
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ Illinois Secretary of State

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present the issues of the case. Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on January 14, 2014
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Michelle Owen issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) recommending
that the Board dismiss a charge filed by Charging Party against the Respondent. The charge alleged that the
Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(2) and (1) of the Act. After her presentation she recommended that the Board
reverse the ALJ’s RDO dismissing the complaint, find that the Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(3), (2), and (1) of
the Act when it issued an oral warning and denied a promotion, and direct the Respondent to grant a make-whole
order. After detailed discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the ALJ’s recommendation with modifications.
Member Besson seconded the motion. The motion passed with four ayes and one nay; Member Coli dissented.
2.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases. General Counsel Post stated that in all
of the following cases, exceptions were filed by the Labor Organization, American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, Council 31.
Case No. S-DE-14-224 (Department of Agriculture)-After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-226 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO. Member
Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-227 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 Case No. S-DE-14-228 (Human Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the RDO.
Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-229 (Financial and Professional Regulations)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to
accept the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-230 (Children and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote
Case No. S-DE-14-231 (Children and Family Services)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote
Case Nos. S-DE-14-237 and S-DE-14-238 (State Police)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept
the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 13th day of May, 2014.

2

 