MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
July 20, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
On Tuesday, July 20, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:05 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Thomas Dunn, Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, and Member Steve Dolins.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Robinson moved to approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting of June
2, 2016. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS –
The Chairman commented on the Self Exclusion Program.
PUBLIC COMMENTARTY –
 Martin Storm – BMM Testlabs
 Kevin Mullally – Gaming Laboratories International
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
HC Joliet, LLC, d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Mark D. Begrin – Director of Finance Level 1
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Mark D. Begrin as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Director of Finance for HC Joliet, LLC, LLC,
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
HC Aurora, LLC, d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – Gregory Moore – Assistant General
Manager - Level 1
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Gregory Moore as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Assistant General Manager for HC Aurora,
LLC, d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership, d/b/a Harrah's Casino Joliet and HotelSouthern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc., d/b/a Harrah's Metropolis Casino and
Hotel – Alia P. Hoyle – Internal Auditor - Level 1
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Alia P. Hoyle as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as an Internal Auditor for Harrah's Casino Joliet,
and approve her as Level One Occupational Licensee in her position as an Internal
Auditor for Harrah's Metropolis Casino. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
Everi Payments, Inc. and Everi Games, Inc. – Michael Rumbolz – President & CEO –
Key Person
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Michael Rumbolz as a Key Person in
his position as President and CEO of Everi Payments, Inc., and as a Key Person in his
position as President and CEO of Everi Games, Inc. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approvals and Denials)
Member Alejandre stated that he had reviewed the list presented by Staff, and based on
Staff’s investigation and recommendation, moved to find suitable and approve 101 Level
2 occupational licenses, 176 Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the
Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to:
1. Arethea Bradley
2. Glenn E. Cooley, Jr.
3. Kerri A. McFadden
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
REQUESTS FOR HEARING:
Michael T. Brooks
Member Dunn moved to deny the request for hearing submitted by Michael T. Brooks as
his request does not establish a prima facie case for a hearing. Member Dolins seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Rena Marie Yslas
Toni D. Seals
Antrese Patterson
Nicholas Garcia

2

 Member Dunn moved to deny the requests for hearing submitted by:





Rena Marie Yslas
Toni D. Seals
Antrese Patterson
Nicholas Garcia

as each request failed to comply with the requirements of Board's Rule 405, and failed to
establish a prima facie case for a hearing. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Deshawna Scott (Level 3 occupational licensee)
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational license of Deshawna Scott due to
her conduct of providing patrons with unauthorized dining credit certificates, said action
to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board's Rule 1125. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Jeta Abdi (Level 3 occupational licensee)
Member Robinson
Member Robinson to revoke the occupational license of Jeta Abdi due to her conduct of
engaging in retail theft, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to
Board's Rule 1125. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:11 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 