Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
June 28, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, June 28, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at the Michael Bilandic Building in Chicago, Illinois at 9:03
A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Steve
Dolins, Thomas Dunn and Member Dee Robinson.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of May 25, 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration


(No Board Action / No Vote Required)

Casino Queen, Inc. – License Renewal

Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Elgin Riverboat Resort, d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Chinedum Austin
Otigbuo – Director of Internal Audit – Level 1
Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of the Level One Occupational
Licensee application of Chinedum Austin Otigbuo until its next regular meeting.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.


Casino Queen, Inc. - Casino Queen Holding Company Inc. – Douglas Steven
Bybee – Director of Finance – Key Person

Member Dunn moved that the Board find Douglas Steven Bybee suitable as a Key
Person of Casino Queen, Inc., in his position as Director of Finance for Casino Queen
Holding Company Inc. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration

(Board Action Required)

 

Global Payments Gaming Services, Inc. – Initial Supplier License

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Supplier License to Global Payments
Gaming Services, Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in June 2018, and find the
following entities and individuals suitable as Key Persons:

Dean A. De Cristoforo

Erin N. Smetana

Global Payments Direct, Inc.

Global Payments, Inc.

Global Payments Check Services, Inc.
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials
Member Robinson moved to find suitable and approve 56 Level 2 Occupational
Licenses and 97 Level 3 Occupational Licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to:
1. Antoine Lamon Ware
2. Crystal Clark, and
3. Angela Ann Brown
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Robinson moved that the Board rescind disciplinary complaint DC-17-11 issued against
Jason T. Scoby at the May 2017 meeting. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational licenses of Tashawn Story and
Candace J. Rembert for their conduct of consuming alcohol while on duty at Rivers
Casino, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,
unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to revoke the occupational license of Obdulia Valdez for her
conduct of theft at Rivers Casino, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that
time frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.

2

 Member Dolins moved to revoke the occupational license of Natalie Marie Patete due
to a retail theft arrest and her non-cooperation with a Board investigation, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the
Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved to revoke the occupational license of Adam Nelson for his
conduct while employed by Hollywood Casino Joliet, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly
filed within that time frame. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:20 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 