Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Video
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
September 14, 2018
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Video – on Friday,
September 14, 2018 in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor of the
Michael Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, Illinois pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act,
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector
Alejandre, Dee Robinson, and Steve Dolins. Four members of the Board being present, a quorum
was satisfied.
The following Staff members were also in attendance: Acting Administrator Agostino Lorenzini,
Assistant General Counsel Daniel Gerber, Assistant General Counsel Jared Smith, Assistant
General Counsel Richard Harlovic, Deputy Administrator-Investigations Scott Deubel, Deputy
Administrator-Audit and Financial Analysis Jim Lopinski, Audit and Financial Analysis
Manager Tammy Compton, License Coordinator Robert Burke, Administrative Assistant and
Acting Secretary to the Board Alicia Passfield, Senior Project Manager Mark Stevens, Deputy
Administrator-Enforcement Frank Spizzirri, Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed, and Operations
Officer William Doster.
Chairman Tracy called the meeting to order at 1:31 PM. The Board Secretary verified that no
one from the public was present to attend the meeting at that time.
At 1:32 P.M. Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific
personnel, the closed session minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter,
the Board discussed matters referenced in the closed session agenda.
At 1:54 PM, Member Dolins moved to adjourn the video closed session meeting and return to
open session. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At 1:54 PM, Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the open meeting to Friday, September 14,
2018 at 9:15 AM. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board reconvened in Open Session on Friday, September 14, 2018 on the 5th Floor of the
Michael Bilandic Building at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois. Present were the following:
Chairman Don Tracy, Members Dee Robinson, Steve Dolins and Hector Alejandre.

 APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular
Meeting of August 1st and 2nd, 2018. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS
None.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS
None.
ADMINISTRATOR COMMENTS
The Administrator reported that there are 6,547 licensed location establishments operating
approximately 29,441 Video Gaming terminals.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Claudia Cox – Location Applicant, Gaggle Dining Corporation, 180700990
Kathy Pals - J & J Ventures Gaming LLC – Spoke on the topic of the use of ID scanning devices
in certain gaming rooms of licensed location establishments for which it serves as the terminal
operator.
MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
None.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial License
•

Aces Up Gaming LLC

Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Aces Up Gaming
LLC for a term of one year, expiring in September, 2019, as the applicant has demonstrated its
qualifications and suitability for licensure. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.

2

 License Renewals
Member Alejandre moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of Bell Gaming
LLC for a term of one year, expiring in September 2019. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Terminal Operator License of FJC
Technologies LLC for a term of one year retroactive to July 2018, and expiring in July 2019.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses - Approvals and Denials
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve seventy six (76) applications for Terminal
Handler licenses and one (1) application for Technician license that were submitted to the Board
since our last meeting, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:
•
•

Lee Archie William-Clark
Michael Frank Harris

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Robinson moved that the Board renew the licenses of Technicians and Terminal
Handlers who were licensed or renewed in September 2017 and who have properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the
Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT APPLICATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve 237 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for a
period of one year, expiring in September 2019, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices
of Denial to:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Pub 225 LLC d/b/a Pub 225
Johnny Dollar’s Inc. d/b/a Johnny Dollar’s
JoAnn Dawson d/b/a Joe Jo’s Tavern
Fill-Up Mart, Inc. d/b/a Fill-Up Mart # 12
G and G Valley Ridge LLC d/b/a Valley Ridge Golf Course
Champs Bar & Grill Inc. d/b/a Champs Bar & Grill

3

 •
•
•
•

Caliber Management LLC
Big Muddy Pub LLC d/b/a Bottle And Barrel
Antguel Inc. d/b/a Pepe’s Mexican Restaurant
Angie’s Whistle Stop Inc d/b/a Angie’s Whistle Stop

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Next, Member Robinson moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to:
•
•
•
•
•

Lacey’s Place LLC Series Belvidere 2 d/b/a Lucky Penny’s
Lacey’s Place LLC Series Clinton d/b/a Lacey's Place
Lacey’s Place LLC Series River Grove d/b/a Lacey's Place
Lacey’s Place LLC Series DeKalb d/b/a Lacey's Place LLC Series DeKalb
Lacey’s Place LLC Series Crestwood 2 d/b/a Lacey's Place

Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote 3-0
with Member Dolins recusing himself from the vote.
License Renewals
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or
renewed in September 2017 and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their
annual fee, and are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's
Rules.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote
REQUESTS FOR HEARING
Member Alejandre move that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Terje Fletcher
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by SMILIN
GOAT, Inc. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the request for hearing submitted by Luna Properties
II, Inc. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by The Bullpen
Inc. d/b/a The Bullpen Bar & Grill. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.

4

 Member Alejandre moved that the Board rescind the August 2018 denial of renewal and grant
renewal to Vail #1 Inc. d/b/a The Oasis, retroactive to August 2018. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by
Symplegades, Inc. d/b/a Top Fuel Saloon. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by Lansing Investment
Corporation d/b/a Kilroy's. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Patricia
Marie Martin d/b/a Memories Lake Villa. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by THE LOADED
BUFFALO BAR AND GRILL INC. d/b/a THE ORIGINAL SUNDANCE SALOON. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board rescind the prior denial and grant a license renewal to
THOMAS'S BARBEQUE, INC. d/b/a THOMAS BBQ, retroactive to August 2018. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the request for hearing submitted by STUCKY'S
BAR & GRILLE, INC. d/b/a STUCKY'S BAR & GRILLE. Member Dolins seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by TNT GasMart, Inc. d/b/a TNT Gas-Mart. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by BRICKS &
IVY, LLC d/b/a Parkside Pub. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Terri
Shepard d/b/a KJ's Bar & Grill. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind the prior denial and grant a license renewal to SA
& TA Incorporated d/b/a Rose Garden Restaurant, retroactive to August 2018. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Requests to Reapply
Member Alejandre moved that the Board grant the request by I & I MADISON MART CORP.
d/b/a MADISON LIQUOR AND MORE to reapply for an establishment license. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant the request by CORNER SPOT, INC. d/b/a THE
KAVE to reapply for an establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the request by C L Quick Stop Of Belvidere, Inc.
d/b/a Lucky Poker to reapply for an establishment license. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant permission to Roger Salmon d/b/a Monticello Bowl
& Lounge to reapply for an establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Robinson moved that the Board grant the request by EAST CAPE PIZZA LLC d/b/a
PIT STOP PIZZA to reapply for an establishment license. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Terminal Handlers
Member Dolins moved to issue a disciplinary complaint revoking the license of James Robert
Pruitt for conduct that discredits the Illinois gaming industry and poses a threat to the good order
and general welfare of the people of the State of Illinois, said actions to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Illegal Gambling Activities
Member Alejandre moved the Board to issue Disciplinary Complaints fining the following
establishment licensees in the amount of $5,000:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Clover Restaurant Group LLC d/b/a Shamrocks Café (150700580)
Tony's Breakfast Cafe, LLC d/b/a Tony's Breakfast Café
BK & MM VENTURES LLC d/b/a Kane County Rookies
Puzzled Minds Management Group, LLC d/b/a JT's Corner Tap & Eatery
CDT ENTERPRISE, INC. d/b/a PLAYOFFS BAR & GRILL
Tavern on 60, Inc. d/b/a Tavern on 60
Hallie & Glenn Inc. d/b/a D'Arcy's Pint
AMSIA MARKET LLC d/b/a ANNIE'S PLACE

6

 •

Grand Tavern, Inc. d/b/a Grand Tavern

for knowingly permitting underage play of video gaming terminals, said actions to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaints, unless Answers are properly filed within that
timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.
VGTs play by owner
Member Robinson moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining the establishment
Pal-Rose Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Nancy’s Pizza $2,500 for permitting recreational play by the
owner, this to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is
properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Failure to Monitor
Member Alejandre moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint fining Grumpy’s
Smokehouse, Inc. $2000 for violation of section 58 of the Video Gaming Act, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
voice vote.
LITIGATION
Settlements
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind the previous denial and grant a terminal handler
license to James Thomas Stewart. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by voice vote.
Member moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator authority to enter into a settlement
agreement with the licensee R.W. SKIP SMITH, INC. d/b/a JESSE OAKS and to take the
necessary actions to resolve the disciplinary complaint. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator authority to enter into a
settlement agreement with the licensee GOUNTANIS ENTERPRISES INC. d/b/a Gojos and to
take the necessary actions to resolve the disciplinary complaint. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board rescind the prior denial, grant renewal retroactive to
January 2018, and delegate to the Administrator authority to enter into a settlement agreement
with the licensee IBPO Elks of the World, Capital City Lodge #1160. Member Robinson
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Member Alejandre moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator authority to enter into a
settlement agreement with the licensee PAREDES & SCHMITT LLC d/b/a FAMOUS CITY
BILLIARDS and to take the necessary actions to resolve the disciplinary complaint. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
OTHER MATTERS
BMM North America Inc. (BMM) v. Gaming Laboratories International (GLI), Illinois Gaming
Board (IGB) – 2017 CH 02587
Following oral arguments made by legal counsel for both BMM and GLI, Member Dolins
moved that, on remand from the Circuit Court of Cook County, pursuant to the court’s July 25,
2018 order and in accordance with the court’s directives, and having considered the
administrative record, including the supplemental record, briefs by both parties, and arguments
of counsel, the Board make the following findings: First, that the circumstances surrounding the
August 23, 2016 meeting between GLI and Board staff did not taint the administrative process
and decision to award GLI the exclusive independent testing contracts; Second, that there was
insufficient evidence that the alleged staff bias tainted the administrative process and decision to
award GLI the exclusive independent testing contracts to warrant an adverse inference; Third,
that the Board determine not to reverse its prior determination that GLI be awarded the exclusive
right to perform independent testing lab services under the subject contracts. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
ADJOURN: Member Alejandre moved to adjourn the meeting. Member Robinson seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Richard P. Harlovic
Assistant General Counsel

8

 