MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
December 15, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, December 15, 2011 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Thursday, December 15, 2011 at approximately 10:00 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Z. Scott, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski
and Lee Gould. At 10:15 A.M. on Thursday, December 15, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the
meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings
Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Vander Weele moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s
agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:38 P.M. at which time the Board
and staff went into Closed Session for video gaming. Present were the following: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Z. Scott, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
●

Dissemination of Closed Session Minutes – January, 2011 – June, 2011
Member Gould moved to make available for public inspection all portions of closed
session minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from January, 2011 through June,
2011 for which the need for confidentiality no longer exists. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – no motion
Administrator Ostrowski reviewed the year of 2011. The following is a brief synopsis of his
review:
Assisted in collecting slightly over $376M in tax revenue in FY “11”.

 Assisted in distributing $80M in revenue to local municipalities.
Assisted in getting the 10th license operational after years of litigation.
Renewed the Owner’s License of Casino Rock Island, Hollywood Casino Joliet, Harrah’s Joliet,
and Argosy Alton.
Approved Delaware North as the new owner of Casino Rock Island.
Approved 4 new suppliers, renewed 8 existing suppliers.
Issued licenses to 2,335 Occupational License Level 3’s, 1,507 Occupational License Level 2’s,
16 Occupational License Level 1’s and 101 Key persons.
Denied 36 Occupational applications for license.
SEP Program - 8,643 persons are enrolled in the SEP program, 696 new enrollments in calendar
year 2011.
Continued to stress the importance of making opportunities available to everyone and encourage
various supplier diversity fairs such as the Chicago Business Opportunity Fair and the supplier
diversity fair at Par-A-Dice Casino.
Issued a total of 29 Disciplinary Complaints.
797 Criminal investigations and 786 arrests for the year 2011.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS –
●

2012 Board Meeting Dates

The following meeting dates for the calendar year of 2012 were approved:
Wednesday, January 18, 2012 and Thursday, January 19, 2012
Wednesday, February 15, 2012 and Thursday, February 16, 2012
Wednesday, March 14, 2012 and Thursday, March 15, 2012
Wednesday, April 18, 2012 and Thursday, April 19, 2012
Wednesday, May 16, 2012 and Thursday, May 17, 2012
Wednesday, June 20, 2012 and Thursday, June 21, 2012
Wednesday, July 18, 2012 and Thursday, July 19, 2012
Wednesday, August 15, 2012 and Thursday, August 16, 2012
Wednesday, September 19, 2012 and Thursday, September 20, 2012
Wednesday, October 17, 2012 and Thursday, October 18, 2012
Wednesday, November 14, 2012 and Thursday, November 15, 2012
Wednesday, December 19, 2012 and Thursday, December 20, 2012

2

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Ownership
Approval
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Holewinski
moved to approve the following entities, that intend to own interest in Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines through High
Plaines Gaming, LLC.
1. HPG Investors, LLC; and
2. Carlin Dynasty Trust
Member Holewinski further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules
to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings,
LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the
financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – CRW 2011
Trust - Owner
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved to approve the following trust, that intend to indirectly own interests in
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines through
Casino Investors, LLC.
1. CRW 2011 Trust
Member Vander Weele further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted
Rules to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming
Holdings, LLC and the issuance of interests to Casino Investors, LLC consistent
with the financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Molly K. Daniell, Internal
Auditor, Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve Molly K. Daniell as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Internal Auditor for Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Jaffe seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Eric D. Jokisch, Internal
Audit Manager, Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Eric D. Jokisch as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Internal Audit Manager for Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC
d/b/a Rivers Casino in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership (DDLP) d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino &
Hotel – Daemon Laronn Smith, Security Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve Daemon Laronn Smith as an Occupational Licensee Level One
in the position of Security Manager for Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel in Joliet, Illinois. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Scott Alan Szybilski, Director of
Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve Scott Alan Szybilski as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Finance for Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria
Casino in Elgin, Illinois. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel – Joseph Hargis, Director
of Security – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Joseph Hargis as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Security for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers
Casino & Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
●

H. Betti Industries, Inc. d/b/a Betson Enterprises– License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved that the Board renew the Supplier’s license of H. Betti Industries, Inc., d/b/a
Betson Enterprises retroactive to November, 2011 for a term of four (4) years,
expiring in November, 2015.
Staff further recommends the following be designated and approved as Key Persons
of H. Betti Industries, Inc. d/b/a Betson Enterprises:

4

 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Chief Operating Officer;
Peter Betti;
Robert Betti;
Joseph Betti; and
Robert Geschine.

Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve H. Betti Industries,
Inc. d/b/a Betson Enterprises to supply the following to Illinois Owner Licensees:
1. LCD/LED/CCFL Monitors;
2. Bill Validators; and
3. Touchscreens.
Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
●

JCM American Corporation – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved
that the Board renew the Supplier’s License of JCM American Corporation
retroactive to November, 2011 for a term of four (4) years expiring in November
2015.
Staff further recommends the following be designated and approved as Key persons
of JCM American Corporation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Japan Cash Machine Co., Ltd.;
Johto Investment & Development, Inc. (Joto Kosan Co.
Ltd.);
Chairman of the Board, Japan Cash Machine Co. Ltd.;
President, Japan Cash Machine Co. Ltd.;
President, JCM American Corporation;
Koichiro Kamihigashi;
Yojiro Kamihigashi; and
Akiyoshi Isoi.

Member Gould further moved that JCM American Corporation be authorized to
manufacture and sell bill validators to Illinois Owner Licensees. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 ●

Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. – License Renewal
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved that the Board renew the Supplier’s License of Patriot Gaming &
Electronics, Inc. for a term of four (4) years expiring in December 2015.
Staff further recommends the following be designated and approved as Key Persons
of Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc.:
1.
2.

President; and
Mark E. Komorowski.

Member Holewinski further moved that Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. be
authorized and approved to supply parts, equipment and gaming related supplies to
Illinois Owner Licensees. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board find suitable and approve 66 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 2, and 75 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Vander Weele moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial
to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial of their license applications and either did not respond or did not provide
additional information which rebutted the recommendations:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Gordon E. Carter;
Norberto Cruz;
Larry J. Gardner;
Anthony O. Wells;
Cameron A. Hope;
Katrina M. Johnson;
Jajuan D. Phillips; and
Michael A. Rice.

Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

6

 ●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board find
Joselito Rivera suitable for licensing and approve his application for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Holewinski second the motion. Chairman Jaffe
was in favor of the motion. Member Gould opposed the motion. The motion passed 3 to
1.

PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Dennis L. Gladkin – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dennis L. Gladkin, an Occupational
Licensee, due to his admission of stealing currency from The Rock Island Boatworks
d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel’s main bank cage.
Further, Member Holewinksi moved that the Board revoke Dennis L. Gladkin’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT
●

Request for Hearing
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander
Weele moved that the following individuals’ requests’ for a hearing be denied
based on the fact that the individuals have offered no facts that establish a
prima facie case:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Jorge D. Casiano;
Oronzo DiFronzo;
Timothy Keith Evitts;
Francesco Masellis;
Christopher Nowak;
Jerry W. Reaves;
Neo Skywalker;
Phillip Weinberg; and
David A. Zimmerman.

Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 At 3:55 P.M. Chairman Jaffe motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

8

 