STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on November 18, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite N703, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Executive Director Melissa Mlynski participated via video conference from
the Board’s Springfield office.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD October 7, 2014

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the October 7, 2014 meeting. Member Anderson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS

1.
Case No. L-CA-12-041
Chris Logan/ City of Chicago (Department of Aviation)
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked Counsel
Sanceda to present and discuss the issues of the case. Counsel Sanceda stated that on August 8, 2014, Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ) Michelle Owen issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) recommending that the Board find that
the Respondent did not violate Section 10(a)(1) of the Act when it held a pre-disciplinary meeting without union
representation of the charging party, but did violate Section 10(a)(3) and (1) of the Act by subsequently issuing a predisciplinary notice. Counsel Sanceda discussed the merits of the exceptions to the RDO, the Board discussed the matter in
detail after which Member Lewis moved to dismiss the complaint in its entirety. Member Anderson seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it with Chairman Gierut dissenting.
2.
Case Nos. L-CA-14-068, 069, 080 and L-CB-14-030, 034, 035
Debra Larkins/ Chicago Transit Authority/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases. General Counsel Post stated that the

Executive Director issued dismissals on charges filed by the Charging Party alleging that Respondents violated
Sections 10(a)(1) and 10(b)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then reviewed the issues
raised by the Charging Party’s appeal. After his presentation, General Counsel Post recommended that the Executive
Director's dismissals be affirmed. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the Executive Director’s
dismissals. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 16th day of December, 2014.

 