STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on April 14, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F.
Brosnan and Colleen M. Harvey acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MARCH 10, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the March 10, 2009 meeting. Member Coli made a
motion for approval of the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from March 1 through March 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-06-177
Illinois Council of Police/Village of Broadview

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Wells' Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation and certify
the union as the exclusive representative of the petitioned-for employees. After a discussion of the merits,
Member Hade moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-07-174
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed at length the issues
presented by the exceptions and cross-exceptions, and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Harvey's
recommendation. After a discussion of the merits, Member Washington moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-06-097
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of McCook
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its procedural background. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO. After a lengthy
discussion, Member Hade moved to obtain clarification of the facts underlying certain of the disputed issues.
Member Washington seconded the motion. After further discussion, Member Hade withdrew his motion,
and Member Washington withdrew his second. After additional discussion, Member Washington moved to
accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it—three in
favor, none against—Member Hade abstained.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-04-047
Michael McLaughlin/Lincolnshire-Riverwoods Fire Protection District
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Kazanjian's
recommendation. After a discussion of the merits, Member Hade moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-06-225
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 126/County of DuPage/Sheriff of DuPage County
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Clifford's
recommendation. After a discussion of the case, Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's
recommendation. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-06-325
Dean Cashman/Worth Park District
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-AC-09-002
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
March 4, 2009, with an appeal filed and a request for oral argument. Acting General Counsel Harvey
reviewed the issues presented by the request and appeal, and recommended that the Board decline to conduct
oral argument, and uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to deny
the request for oral argument. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli moved to uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that the agency's Senate budget hearing was scheduled for April 28; she updated
the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency, and distributed the fiscal report. The
Chair and Members of the Board discussed the pending legislation and the fiscal report. Member Hade made
a motion to leave open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Hade made a motion to go into executive session to discuss
personnel matters. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Hade made a motion to leave executive
session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Member Hade then made a motion to return to open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 5th day of May, 2009.
2

 