MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
SEPTEMBER 19, 1995
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on September 19, 1995 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile Cusack, other
members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. and the Board
immediately adjourned to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matter:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 9:02 a.m.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at
12:43 p.m. Four of the five member Board being present, a quorum was satisfied.
Chairman Johnson recognized J. William Roberts who tendered his resignation as
a Member of the Board, pursuant to his appointment as Governor Jim Edgar's Chief Legal
Counsel.
Member Vickrey moved that the minutes from the open and closed sessions of the
July 17 and July 18, 1995 regular meeting be approved. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the Administrator's Report.
Administrator Belletire reported that Adjusted Gross Receipts for July and August
were $107 million and $103 million respectively. Elgin Riverboat Resort recorded the
highest AGR total among licensees during each month. For the third successive month,
the number of individuals who had been requested for identification increased.

1

 The Administrator reported that as of July 1 formal procedures were implemented
to sanction licensees for failure to timely report taxes due and remit taxes daily. The
sanction for failure to remit is 15% on the tax liability. There were three instances in the
past two months where three licensees did not adhere to the required procedures.
Penalties were set and payment was rendered. A fourth licensee had an instance of late
filing. The automatic penalty was appealed by the licensee and granted by the
Administrator. It was determined that the error was made by the telephone carrier.
The Administrator reported that Sterling "Mac" Ryder was hired as an addition to
the legal staff. Kevin Lockhart was hired as Chief of the Audit Division and Doug O'Brien
was hired as Coordinator for Research and Analysis to look into the economic impact of
gaming in Illinois.
The Administrator reported that the Attorney General upon the request of Senator
James "Pate" Philip, issued an advisory opinion with regard to the question of whether or
not a riverboat license could be moved from one geographical location to another. The
opinion concludes that the IGB lacks the authority to approve relocation of a licensee.
The opinion further states that after a license expires there would have to be competition
for the existing license.
The Administrator lastly reported on a Congressional Hearing to be held by
Representative Wolf on September 29, 1995 in Washington D.C. to consider a proposed
resolution that would commence a study by Congress to examine gambling and gambling
regulation.
Chairman Johnson moved that the October 17 Board meeting date be changed to
October 24 and the November and December meetings be combined to one date,
December 5, 1995. There were no objections.
The next order of business was Items Concerning Owner Licensees.
Richard Knight, representing the Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc., requested
approval of a refinancing plan, an underwritten public offering of senior secured notes due
in 2003. The offering would be by Hollywood Casino Corporation. The majority of the
funds ($200 million offering) will be used to refinance Hollywood Casino Corp.'s existing
debt.
Al Cohen, Ed Pratt III, and David Solomon of HCC answered questions from the
Board regarding the refinancing deal.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Hollywood Casino's refinancing
proposal substantially in the form described in amendment No. 1 to the registration
statement on Form S-1/S-3 filed by Hollywood Casino Corporation with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on September 13, 1995. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

2

 John Janicik, representing the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation requested approval
for an expansion of the fourth deck of its riverboat and an increase in gaming positions.
Chairman Johnson stated that the Par-A-Dice is the first licensee to request
approval of poker tables. Due to the various issues surrounding Poker, Chairman
Johnson asked the Administrator to further review this request. Board Members
expressed a reluctance to approve Par-A-Dice's request of gaming positions dedicated to
Poker at this time.
Member Browder moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation's
request to increase the capacity of its riverboat and increase the number of gaming
positions on the Par-A-Dice Riverboat, subject to the approval by the Administrator of any
required changes to the Internal Control System or changes in surveillance deemed
necessary by the Administrator. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
Dennis Gallagher, representing Harrah's, introduced Mr. Patrick Dennehy as the
new Vice President and General Manager for Harrah's Joliet. Mr. Gallagher requested
approval for the Harrah's Southern Star to be replaced with another riverboat vessel of
comparable size and design.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve Harrah's request to replace the
Southern Star with a new vessel, subject to the approval by the Administrator of required
changes to Internal Control Systems and Surveillance, and subject to equipment transfer
requirements and procedures deemed necessary by the Administrator. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Boake Sells as a member of the
Board of Directors of Harrah's Illinois Corporation. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was Proposals for Initial Consideration.
Tom Long, representing the Alton Gaming Company, requested that the Alton
Gaming Company's license be renewed for one year. Mr. Long further requested approval
to refinance at the Argosy Gaming Corporation level for $150 - $200 million. Mr. Long
indicated that they will be upgrading the facilities in Alton to triple the size of the support
facilities in Illinois.
Jack Desatnick, representing Jumer's Hotel and Casino, requested permission to
continue talks with Boatmen's Bank to refinance Casino Rock Island. This refinancing

3

 would lift the $12 million debt from the Casino Rock Island and assign it to Jumer's Castle
Lodge.
The next order of business concerned Supplier's Licensure Items.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Kilmartin Industries' application for
renewal of its Supplier's License. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator Belletire gave a report on National Gaming Corporation's ("NGC")
proposed acquisition of the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation. He indicated that the
agreement between these two company's expired on August 31, 1995. The Administrator
stated that the agreement had not been renewed due to questions remaining between
staff of the IGB and NGC. Related to this, HFS Gaming Co. requested Board approval to
withdraw their request for a supplier's license. The license was sought solely in
conjunction with the proposed acquisition of Par-A-Dice by NGC.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve HFS Gaming's request to withdraw its
application for a Supplier's License. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion
was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Charles McCrea as a Key Person of
Mikohn Gaming Corporation. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Occupational Licensure.
Member Browder moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and
approve the applications for an Occupational License, Level 1, submitted by the following:
Randall Curtis
Mark DeBarr
Timothy Donovan
James Ervin
Philip Ozment
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board adopt the staff recommendations and
approve 394 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 790 applications for
an Occupational License, Level 3, and deny 6 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 2, and 21 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.

4

 The next order of business concerned Administrative Hearings.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and deny the application for an occupational license for Fred
Woolery. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the recommendation of the
Administrative Law Judge and grant the application for an occupational license for
Thomas Company. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and revoke the license of
Anthony Matthews. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the Board grant Dwayne Barfield's request to reapply
within one year from the date of his denial. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The
motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Complaints and Disciplinary Actions.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Empress
River Casino Corporation be issued and that Empress be fined in the amount of $50,000.
The complaint involves the entry of a fifteen year old into an area of the Empress I where
gambling was being conducted and the placement of a wager on the Empress I by this
minor. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Casino
Queen, Inc. be issued and that Casino Queen, Inc. be fined in the amount of $25,000.
The complaint involves Casino Queen's failure to comply with its Corrective Action Plan
submitted to the Board. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Rock
Island Boatworks be issued and that Rock Island be fined in the amount of $50,000. The
complaint involves the Casino Rock Island's failure to maintain and operate its vessel in a
manner that assured the welfare and safety of its patrons. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Richard
Kulpa be issued and that Mr. Kulpa's license be suspended for 90 days. The complaint
involves Mr. Kulpa's failure to assure that the Casino Rock Island had adequate fuel to
complete its cruise. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Wally
Jimenez be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves his
inappropriate conduct while gaming on the Harrah's riverboat.
Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Susan
Brooks be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves her
inappropriate conduct while gaming on the Harrah's riverboat.
Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Darryl
Alexander be issued and that Mr. Alexander's license be revoked. The complaint involves
Mr. Alexander's ineligibility to possess an occupational license due to his criminal
background. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Esther
Martinez be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves her
ineligibility to possess an occupational license due to her criminal background. Member
Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Browder moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Vicky
Denzmore be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves her
ineligibility to possess an occupational license due to her criminal background. Member
Vickrey seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Terry
McAntire be issued and that Mr. McAntire's license be revoked. The complaint involves
Mr. McAntire's conduct while gaming on the Harrah's riverboat. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Board Policy Items.
Peter Bensinger, representing Bensinger, DuPont & Associates, gave a status
report on the Illinois Gaming Board's "Gaming Awareness and Assistance Initiative". He
outlined the treatment inventory that was produced as a survey which indicated the
number of qualified treatment professionals. He discussed the three day and one day
training programs for these treatment professionals. He indicated that Bensinger, DuPont
& Associates will be briefing the owner licensees, IGB staff and other state agencies who
are impacted with the problems of gambling addiction. Mr. Bensinger also recommended

6

 the items outlined above be complemented with increased public awareness. He also
recommended that an information line be established so that the resources within the
state of Illinois can be contacted. Member Vickrey expressed his concern about the
potential problem of duplication of efforts with existing toll-free phone banks to assist
compulsive gamblers. He encouraged a uniform Illinois 800-number service.
Member Browder complimented Mr. Bensinger on the report and the industry for its
cooperation. He also expressed his concern reference the credit that is extended to
patrons and what the affect is on compulsive gambling. Member Pyatt indicated that she
would like to see the licensees take the initiative in addressing some of the
recommendations that are in the report. Chairman Johnson pointed out that the Governor
in signing HB1270 indicated that responsibility for coordinating the compulsive gambling
initiative has been given to DASA and that the funds should come from the industry.
Chairman Johnson asked the Administrator to meet with owner licensees to get their input.
Deputy Administrator Joseph C. Haughey updated the Board on underage gaming
and asked for authorization to move forward with legislation that would amend the
Riverboat Gambling Act in the prohibited activities section.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREAS the Board wishes to eliminate underage gambling on the riverboats,
and
WHEREAS, the Riverboat Gambling Act currently does not provide a penalty for
persons under the age of 21 years who without authority enter upon an area of a
riverboat where gambling is being conducted;
NOW THERE FOR BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board shall direct the Administrator
to prepare and submit proposed legislation to the general assembly at its next
session.
Such proposed legislation, to be added to Section 10/18 of the Riverboat Gambling
Act, would make unauthorized entry to a riverboat casino by a person under age 21
a petty offense.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Draft Rules.
Mareile Cusack, Chief Legal Counsel, discussed the subject and intent of various
draft rules.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the proposed Rules 3000.230,
3000.236 and 3000.241 for submission as an initial filing with the Office of the Secretary of

7

 State. Member Browder seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
Ms. Cusack further discussed the proposed rule changes for a second submission
for a 45 day period to JCAR. Member Vickrey asked that in the future a format be
submitted to the Board showing the draft rule, the public comments and the changes
made to the proposed rule.
Administrator Belletire suggested holding the proposed rules for the next Board
meeting to supply Member Vickrey with the information he requested reference rules:
3000.300, 3000.310, 3000.320, 3000.500, 3000.510, 3000.614, 3000.616, and 3000.636.
The Board concurred.
Member Browder moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREAS, under Section 5 of the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act, (Act) the Board
may delegate the execution of any of its powers for the purpose of administering
and enforcing this act and its rules; and
WHEREAS, under Section 5 of the Act, the Administrator shall perform any and all
duties that the Board shall assign him; and
WHEREAS, under Board Rule 3000.230(d), an applicant or owner licensee must
disclose and obtain formal Board approval whenever a change is proposed in the
areas specified under the above-referenced rule;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Administrator shall be authorized to
approve the following proposed changes:
1.

The establishment of unsecured operating lines of
credit from nationally chartered banking institutions to cover shortterm cash needs;

2.

Renewals of lines of credit which have been
previously approved by the Board;

3.

Increases in equity caused by additional
contributions from existing owners;

4.

Minor and/or technical changes in terms or
conditions of debt capitalization or financings previously approved by
the Board.

5.

Capital leases for real or personal property which
do not exceed five million dollars;

8

 6.

Long term capital improvements of $5 million or
less, including project-related financings to such improvements;

7.

Riverboat capacity, design change and gaming
positions.

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously by
voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Blackjack Win Cards.
Administrator Belletire informed the Board that he was requested by Gaming
International, Inc. to approve the use of three types of devices: blackjack, roulette and
craps Win Cards. The Administrator reported that he gave approval for the use of
Roulette Win Cards and Craps Win Cards. He stated that these cards do not instruct the
player, they give odds of winning or the amount a person will win if he makes a particular
bet. The Administrator further stated that he did not approve the Blackjack Win Cards
because the device analyses the strategy of a game which the Act prohibits. The Board
agreed with the Administrator and asked that he solicit input from the licensees on their
need for this device.
The next order of business concerned Wide Area Progressive Slot Machines.
Chairman Johnson stated that inquiries have been made asking if the Board would
approve progressive slot machines that would allow licensees to link (across licensees) a
progressive slot type of operation. Member Browder stated that he is not partial to such
an operation. Chairman Johnson expressed various concerns and questions about the
nature of such an operation. Chairman Johnson instructed the Administrator not to dwell
on this issue unless a specific person or group came forward requesting approval.
The next order of business concerned Public Comment.
Reverend Tom Grey, asked to speak to inform the Board of two issues. The first
was to reiterate Administrator Belletire's comments on the Congressional Hearing being
held September 29, 1995 and inform the Board that he would be speaking on behalf of the
National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling. The second issue referenced a line from
Peter Bensinger's report that was quoted in the St. Louis Post Dispatch which stated that
"Efforts should be made to promote gaming as an entertainment option as opposed to
gambling." Mr Grey stated that he felt this statement minimized the addictive nature of
gambling by saying it was an entertainment option and he was opposed to this type of
thinking.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder
moved that the Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned at 3:25 p.m.

9

 Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

10

