MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
April 21, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, April 21, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”)
was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building, Chicago, Illinois.
The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 9:30 A.M. Present were Chairman
Don Tracy, Members Lee Gould, Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson and Member Dunn
participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES: Open Session
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 4, 2016. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that there are 5,376 locations up and running along with 22,915
live machines. On April 4, 2016 a Terminal Operator's meeting was held at the WMS facilities.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
 Ralph Dillon – Westshoreland Corporation LLC
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Proposed Amendment to the Video Gaming Rules
Member Alejandre moved to amend Sections 110 and 430 of the Board’s Rules by
authorizing Staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State
upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR ITEMS:
License Renewals
Member Robinson moved to renew the Terminal Operator Licenses of:
 Advantage Gaming, LLC
 Da Route LLC
 Gaming & Entertainment Management - Illinois LLC
 Grand River Jackpot, LLC

 









Great Lakes Vending Corporation
Illinois Operators, Inc.
Lucky Lincoln Gaming, LLC
Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC
Schaffner Gaming LLC
Sinbad's Castle Arcade, Ltd.
Stellar Gaming LLC
T's Gaming, LLC
Velasquez Gaming, LLC

for a term of one year expiring in April 2017. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Tabled License Renewals



DSG Amusement Ltd.
Tangent Gaming Capital, LLC

Member Alejandre moved to table consideration of the renewal of the Terminal Operator
licenses of DSG Amusement, Ltd. and Tangent Gaming Capital, LLC until the Board's
next regular meeting. Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Disassociation Pursuant to Board Rule 795
Ashiq Gaming, LLC
Member Robinson moved to issue a notice of disassociation to Ashiq Gaming, LLC, ordering
it to disassociate from Hina Ashqali said disassociation to become effective 21 days from
the date of service of the notice, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Terminal Handler Licenses and Technician Licenses Approvals, Denials and
Renewals
Member Alejandre moved to approve 3 Technician Licenses and 65 Terminal Handler
licenses, and issue a Notice of Denial to:
Kris A. Parent
Lavell Curtis Newbon
Jacky Don Forsyth, Jr.
David Anthony Gurley
Damian Black

2

 Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Renewal of Technicians and Handlers (second motion)
Member Robinson moved to approve the renewal of the Technicians and Terminal Handlers
previously licensed or renewed in April 2015, that have properly updated their
applications, timely paid their annual fee, and otherwise maintained compliance with the
requirements of the Act and the Board's Rules. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Video Gaming Location License Approvals, Denials, Renewals, Non-Renewals
Member Gould moved to approve 185 Video Gaming Location Licenses for a period of one
year, expiring in April 2017 and issue a Notice of Denial to:
RJ's Pub & Grill, Inc.
Marshall International LLC
CORONAS MEXICAN RESTAURANT INC.
Elvamann LLC
MVP'S,LTD.
San Bernardo Inc.
The Last Roundup Bar & Grill Limited
CLUB SUGAR HILL, INC.
123 INC. d/b/a LA TOSCA
Massonic Enterprises Inc.
Thomas Davino Enterprises, Inc.
JOHNNY'S PIZZA, INC.
Cooters 2 LLC
Cornstar Inc.
Short Liquors Inc. d/b/a Blue Fish Lagoon Bar & Grille
Red Star Combat LLC
Towne Pub, Inc.
FAT CAT'S, INC.
Twisted Spoke Saloon Corporation d/b/a Twisted Spoke Saloon (in Pekin)
Chicago Truth Inc.
GDAKD, Inc.
Marcus Lee Miller d/b/a Miller's Pub
KLM Enterprises Inc.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 Member Robinson moved to issue a Notice of Denial to Video Gaming Location License
applicant Triple Location LLC d/b/a Baby O. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
motion passed by a 4-0 vote with Member Gould abstaining.
Renewal and non-renewal of locations (motion)
Member Gould moved to approve the renewal of the Retail Establishments, Truck Stops,
Veteran and Fraternal Establishments previously licensed and renewed in April 2015 that
have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee and
otherwise maintained compliance with the requirements of the Act and the Board's rules,
and to authorize the Administrator to issue notices of non-renewal to Romeo Lounge & Bar
Incorporated and CR Thirteen Peoria Heights LLC. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Request for Hearing and Requests to Reapply
Keith Koga
Member Robinson moved to deny the request for hearing submitted by Keith Koga as his
request did not comply with Board Rule 615 and did not established a prima facie case for
a hearing. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Angela Perry d/b/a Nite Landing
Marlin Palmer
Member Gould moved to grant Angela Perry and Marlin Palmer permission to re-apply for
licensure. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call
vote.
Cermak Beach, LTD.
Member Alejandre moved to deny Cermak Beach, LTD.'s request to re-apply for a video
gaming establishment license. Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Violation of Board Rule 230
Bally Gaming, Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Bally Gaming, Inc.,
fining it $25,000 for shipping software unapproved in Illinois, to a licensed Terminal
Operator, said action to become final 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,

4

 unless the fine is paid or an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member
Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Violation of Board Rule 220(c) - continuing duty to disclose promptly any changes in the
information provided in the Application
Chad Hudson (Terminal Handler)
Stacy Lilly (Terminal Handler)
Member Robinson moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the Terminal Handler
Licenses of Chad Hudson and Stacy Lilly due to due their failure to update their
application and disclose a criminal arrest, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed or a fine of $500 is paid within
that timeframe. Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
Outstanding Tax Obligations
MIH Enterprises, Inc. and MJAM Enterprises Inc.
Member Alejandre moved to issue Disciplinary Complaints revoking the establishment
licenses of:
MIH Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a Fireside Ale House
MJAM Enterprises Inc. d/b/a Wings Etc. Grill & Pub
For having outstanding tax obligations, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of
service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe.
Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Involvement in Illegal Gambling
Splash-N-Go Pub Inc.
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the establishment license
of Splash-N-Go Pub Inc. for allowing illegal gambling at the location, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer is properly filed
within that timeframe. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Settlements of Board issued Disciplinary Complaints
Tavern on 60, Inc.
Member Robinson moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with Tavern on 60, Inc. related to DC-V-15-77; and authorize legal
counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for

5

 disposition of this matter. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
unanimously by roll call vote.

The motion passed

Chicago Gaming Distributors
Member Gould moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a settlement
agreement with Chicago Gaming Distributors, LLC related to DC-V-15-72; and authorize
legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law
Judge for disposition of this matter. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Fraternal Order of Eagles Granite City #1126
Member Alejandre moved to rescind DC-V-16-33 issued to the Fraternal Order of Eagles
Granite City #1126 at the March 2016 Board meeting. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
RSB Fuels, Inc.
Member Robinson moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with RSB Fuels, Inc. related to DC-V-16-04, and authorize legal
counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for
disposition of this matter. Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Hyperactive Gaming, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with Hyperactive Gaming, LLC related to DC-V-15-46, and
authorize legal counsel to present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative
Law Judge for disposition of this matter. Member Robinson seconded the motion. Member
Gould abstained from voting. The motion passed.
Jacob's Bar, Inc.
Member Gould moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a settlement
agreement with Jacobs Bar, Inc. related to DC-V-16-10, and authorize legal counsel to
present the executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for disposition
of this matter. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.

6

 At 10:00 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 