MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
October 5 and 6, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, October 5, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday October 5, 2009 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and Jim
Sullivan. At 9:50 a.m. on Monday October 5, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board recessed at 12:32 p.m.
On Tuesday, October 6, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 11:30 a.m. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:00 p.m. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 1:05 p.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 14 & 15, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 15, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 BOARD POLICY ITEMS –
●

Rule 3000.220 – Withdrawal of Applications – Second Notice Filing & Adoption Upon
Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved to authorize staff to submit the proposed amendment to
Rule 3000.220 of the Adopted Rules for second notice filing with the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to authorize the final adoption and publishing of
Rule 3000.220 as amended, provided no material changes are made to this section
during the second notice process. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Rule 3000.660 – EGD Tournament Programs – Second Notice Filing & Adoption Upon
Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved to authorize staff to submit the proposed amendment to
Rule 3000.660 of the Adopted Rules for second notice filing with the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to authorize the final adoption and publishing of
Rule 3000.660 as amended, provided no material changes are made to this section
during the second notice process. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
Member Winkler commented on the Alton Belle’s annual report specifically on the reduction of
funds given for charitable causes. Mr. Sinnopoli addressed the Board and stated that the Alton
Belle was not pleased with its reduction in charitable giving. He went on to state that the Alton
Belle is committed to the community and there will be a change in the numbers.
ADMINSTRATOR’S COMMENTS – no motion
Administrator Ostrowski announce that an RFP was issued for an independent test lab for video
gaming on October 1, 2009.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Todd Cravens, Betson Midwest

Mr. Cravens addressed the Board and explained his role as distributor of video gaming machines
and how the Video Poker legislation will affect his business and the other distributors in the area.
He went on to explain how the distributors can act as an “extra pair of eyes” in the industry as far

2

 as the location of the machines in the establishments. He went on to explain that as a distributor
he focuses on getting the best product available to his customers. He is a service provider.
There are two major distributors that serve the Chicagoland area. The companies have long
standing relationships with the customers. Mr. Cravens went on to state that they have a show
room showing new and used products, a fully stocked service facility, and are fully stocked with
parts. There is a relationship with the customers.
Member Gardner asked how many companies distribute in the Illinois area. Mr. Cravens stated
that four companies distribute in the Illinois market and two major companies are located in the
Chicago land area.
Member Winkler asked if the company works with the manufacturers. Mr. Cravens stated his
company sells to the operator. Member Winkler asked how the Video poker bill will affect the
distributors. Mr. Cravens went on to explain that if you are a small operator you have to make a
serious decision whether it’s worth the time and money to be an operator now.
Member Gardner asked why the distributor doesn’t sell straight to the taverns. Mr. Cravens went
on to explain that the operator is a service provider to locations. There are about 250 amusement
operators in the State of Illinois. As distributors we have to make sure that we have the
customers’ best interests at heart. This is a very close knit business venture for the distributor and
their clients.
10th LICENSE UPDATE –
Neil Bluhm addressed the Board and introduced Greg Carlin who is the CEO of Midwest
Gaming and Entertainment. He presented the following outline for the project.
The presentation is outlined as follows:
1.

2.

Development/Design Update
A.

Key Consultant Overview

B.

Development Plan

Financing Update
A.

Equity

B.

Debt

3.

Current Timeline

4.

Proposed Corporate Structure

Mr. Carlin advised that the following individuals and entities would be working on the project:

3

 1.

Architect – KLAI JUBA

2.

Interior Design – CLEO Design

3.

Development Manager – Development Management Associates LLC

4.

Gaming Operations – David Patent

5.
Midwest has engaged other consultants, including a civil engineering consultant and a
traffic consultant to assist in development.
KLAI JUBA initiated the presentation and shared detailed drawings of the proposed casino,
parking areas, and entrance/exit paths to the location off of Devon and Touhy.
Equity Financing Process Bluhm Investment Group and Clairvest have entered into a definitive agreement. Clairvest is a
Canadian private equity firm with a 22 year history and $660M of equity under management.
Clairvest has been involved with seven casino developments since 2001, registered and approved
in 4 jurisdictions.
The two groups have committed to a combined $184M of cash and contributed equity capital.
Total equity, with anticipated statutory investment will be $230M. $25M of additional equity is
being allocated as contingency. $25M of additional equity is committed to be invested if
necessary and allocated pro rata among Bluhm, Clairvest and statutory investors.
Debt Financing Process –
Midwest is well positioned to raise debt.
The debt financing market has recovered to a degree although new developments are still
challenging.
Affiliates of Midwest have financed three Greenfield casino projects in the last two years
including the only two to be done since the summer of 2008.
Clairvest adds substantial credibility in the financing markets and brings longstanding and
complimentary relationships with lending institutions. Midwest is hopeful to be in position to
advance ongoing discussions with potential lenders toward a closing in early 2010.
Pending suitability an accelerated process is underway to start construction in March, 2010.
Proposed Corporate Structure –
The equity investment will be into a holding company that is 100% indirect owner of Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment.

4

 The intermediate holding company will be formed to facilitate financing.
High Plaines (Bluhm) – 40%
Clairvest Group – 40%
Statutory Investors – 20%
John Klai addressed the Board and staff; he is the architect on the project and is registered in the
State of Illinois. A brief overview was given on the progress of the development. The firm
specializes in the gaming industry. The location on the site map was given as an overview of the
casino. The traffic patterns were studied to ease the construction of the site. Secondary
entrances will also be accessible to the casino. The parking garage will have multiple entrances.
Joe Moore asked if River Road will be expanded per the Village. IDOT had planned to expand
River Road for the last few years. IDOT is very receptive to hopefully starting the project before
the opening of the casino. The developer is in continuous discussions with IDOT. Multiple turn
lanes are also being explored.
Member Winkler asked if he was correct in assuming that the project managers will work with
IDOT to expand and improve River Road prior to the casino opening, and the reply was
affirmative.
Member Gardner asked if the plans will progress without waiting on IDOT. The project
manager said that they will go ahead with the project in hopes that IDOT will work along with
them.
Member Moore asked if I294 will be accessible from Devon. Greg Carlin stated that Touhy
would be the entrance to I294.
The casino will be sitting on a moat and there will be approximately1500 parking spaces in the
garage with the capability for future expansion.
Member Gardner asked if all the land will be owned by the developer at the time of the
construction and the answer was affirmative, except for the southwest corner. Member Gardner
asked if the parcel of land still allows for entrance and exit at both Devon and River Road, and
again the answer was affirmative.
Member Gardner asked if the hotel tower will be a long way from the casino and Mr. Carlin
stated that the hotel will be connected to the parking garage. The hotel will be erected in the
second phase of the casino construction.
The casino structure will be a single story with an architecture of stone and metals.
Mr. Bluhm gave an overview of the financing; the agreements were executed as of the morning
of the 6th of October with Clairvest. Clairvest is a Canadian private equity firm with a 22 year
history and extensive experience in the casino business. The structure of the transaction is as

5

 follows: Clairvest and Midwest Gaming $92M each of cash and contributed equity capital,
statutory investors putting up $46M with a total of $230M.
40% - Clairvest
40% - Midwest Gaming
20% - Statutory Investors
A prorated share of an additional $25M in case more equity is needed to complete financing will
be divided amongst Midwest, Clairvest and the minority investors. The funds will be divided
$10M from Clairvest, $10M from Midwest Gaming and $5M from statutory investors. All
information for the application process is being forwarded to the Gaming Board.
Total cost of the project will be $530M including the contributed equity.
Mr. Bluhm went on to explain about the debt market. The debt market has been particularly
tough. Major banks have too much on their balance sheets. Banks are not willing to invest all in
one project. No one bank will invest in a project. A lead investment bank takes the reins and the
end result can have 15 different banks that will finance the transaction.
Member Gardner asked what the equity amount was in the Philadelphia project and Mr. Bluhm
replied $160M in equity, down to $140M. The loan was just over $200M including the
equipment financing. Member Gardner asked how many gaming positions. Mr. Bluhm replied
1700 gaming positions.
Timeline: Construction by the beginning of March, 2010. Permits from the City of Des Plaines
for the project to start. Once construction is started the total time would be 3 months of site work
and 13 months of hard construction, opening in 16 months. In early January 2010 the debt
financing should be complete.
Chairman Jaffe asked if the ground breaking would be in March, 2010 and Mr. Bluhm replied
yes.
Member Gardner stated if the following takes place: financing, GMP, land acquisition and the
Board’s approval then will the ground breaking take place sooner? Mr. Bluhm stated that the
financing won’t be complete until after the first of the year, 2010. So the ground breaking
cannot take place until after the financing is complete.
Member Gardner asked if the applications for the statutory investors will be made available this
month and Bluhm replied yes. A private offering memo to the statutory investors must also be
supplied. All funds will go into escrow for the statutory investors until all financing is
complete and the deal is closed.

6

 OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS Item for Initial Consideration
●

MGM – MGM Mirage’s request to allow Nevada Landing Partnership (NLP) as a
Subsidiary Guarantor on Certain Debt

Paul Jenson appeared before the Board and indicated that MGM would be requesting to allow
NLP to be a subsidiary guarantor on certain debt. Materials were being forwarded to IGB staff.
●

Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (HOC) - Waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule and Request to
Approve Proposed Financing Transaction

Michel Cohen Vice President and Associate General Counsel for Harrah’s Entertainment
addressed the Board. Initial consideration of the financing transaction, waiver of the twomeeting rule and the ultimate approval of the financing transaction was requested.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board may waive any licensing requirement or procedure
provided by Board rule it if determines that such waiver is in the best interests of the public and
the Gaming industry.
Mr. Cohen explained that this is in the best interest to the public and the gaming industry. The
economy is worse than or just as bad as it was during the great depression. Financial markets
have gotten better but are still struggling. There is a large appetite for gaming debt. Harrah’s
saw this as an opportunity for term loan financing. New Jersey and Louisiana are approving the
transaction. October 15, 2009 is the long term closing date of the transaction. Member Gardner
asked is this the 18th day of the transaction for the 18 day closing date. Mr. Cohen answered that
is correct. With refinancing we will pay off our debt, the rest will be used to repay the credit
facility which will increase our equity. Mr. Cohen further explained the necessity for the
financing transaction.
Member Gardner stated that the purpose of the two-meeting rule provides openness,
transparency and clarity and gives the staff and Board time to consider what is requested. We
don’t want any waiver to be considered a precedent.
Pursuant to Section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Gardner moved to
waive the two-meeting rule required by Section 3000.105(e) of the Rules to permit
Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. to present its request for approval of a Proposed
Financing Transaction. Member Moore seconded the motion. Member Sullivan and
Chairman Jaffe were in favor of the motion. Member Winkler opposed the motion. The
motion passed 4 to1.
The Chairman stated that it must be known that the Board will not allow a request to waive the
two-meeting rule without sufficient reason. Members Moore and Sullivan echoed those
statements.

7

 Items for Final Action –
●

Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. - Request to Approve Proposed Financing Transaction
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to section 230(d) of the
Adopted Rules Member Gardner moved to approve Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.’s
Proposed Financing Transaction in which Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. is seeking
$1.0 billion of new term loans to be issued pursuant to an incremental amendment
within the previously approved senior secured credit facility dated January 28,
2008. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Empress Casino Joliet – Approval of Pavilion Reconstruction

Joseph McBride, Assistant General Manager of the Empress Casino, addressed the Board. Mr.
McBride introduced Jon Johnson the new General Manager of the Empress Casino to the Board
and staff.
Mr. McBride narrated a power point presentation, the subject being the progress of the
construction referencing the building exterior, upper level floor plan, lower level floor plan,
interior rendering, Grantville Steakhouse, and the sports bar.
Member Moore asked about the estimated time of completion and Mr. McBride stated that the
target date is December 31, 2010.
Member Moore asked that the new General Manager approach the podium and give a brief
synopsis of his experience and background. Mr. Johnson stated that he has been in the gaming
industry for 35 years. He worked in major markets across the United States. He was the General
Manager at the Penn property in Maine. Before that he was in Tunica, Mississippi. He has been
with Penn since 2003. His background is in finance.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved to
approve Empress Casino’s approximate $65M Pavilion Reconstruction plan.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
●

Alton Belle Casino – Craig Robinson - Director of Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Craig Robinson as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position
of Director of Finance at Alton Belle Casino in Alton, Illinois. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS –
Mr. Lloyd Levinson addressed the Board for Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd.
●

Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. – New Supplier

8

 Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
that the Board approve Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (AGT) for a supplier’s
license, effective October 6, 2009 for a period of one year, expiring in October, 2010.
Member Moore further moved that Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd. (AGT) be
authorized and approved to manufacture and sell electronic gaming devices to
licensed riverboat casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the requirements of the
IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules.
Further, based on staff’s recommendation, Member Moore moved to designate the
following positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Chairman;
Leonard H. Ainsworth;
Chief Executive Officer, and
Daniel E. Gladstone.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
●

Shuffle Master, Inc. – Timothy Parrott, President & CEO – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan
moved that the Board approve Timothy Parrott as a Key Person for Shuffle Master,
Inc. in his position as President and CEO. Member Gardner seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Gregory Gronau, COO – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Gregory Gronau as a Key Person for Gaming
Partners International USA, Inc., in his position as COO. Member Moore seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve 17 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 60
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individual who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.

Brian Gregory Scott.

9

 Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS ●

Rose M. Meline – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Rose M. Meline, an occupational
licensee, for her involvement in having her spouse cash in a found TITO ticket.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Rose M. Meline’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

●

William B. Mize – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against William B. Mize, an occupational
licensee, for conduct surrounding an improperly issued marker for $10,000 on
August 25, 2008.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke William B. Mize’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS ●

Request for Hearing – Thomas Kowalski
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that Thomas Kowalski’s request for a hearing be denied due to the fact that
he has offered no facts that establish a prima facie case. Member Moore seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 2:35 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

10

 Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

11

