MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
October 18 and 19, 2005
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Tuesday, October 18, 2005 Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room at the City Hall Building located at 1528 3rd Avenue in Rock
Island, Illinois for closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Joseph Moore, Eugene Winkler, and James Sullivan.
The meeting convened at 11:15 A.M.
The Board convened its Open session at 3:30 P.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jaffe thanked the City of Rock Island for providing the Board with a place to
conduct its meeting, the tour of Rock Island, and all of the hospitality that the City has
provided. Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board realizes that Casino Rock Island’s project is
very important to the City of Rock Island and the State of Illinois. Chairman Jaffe stated that
the Board is continuing to work with Casino Rock Island in an effort to grant the casino
approval of its request.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the Board is present today to hear testimony from the people in the
community of Rock Island.
Chairman Jaffe thanked Senator Mike Jacobs and Representative Verschoore for attending
the meeting.
Public Commentary
Mayor Mark W. Schwiebert welcomed the Board to the City of Rock Island. Mayor
Schwiebert expressed his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the
Mississippi River and the impact that the Casino has had on the community. Mayor
Schwiebert discussed the benefits of Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the
Mississippi River.
Senator Mike Jacobs was present to express his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to
relocate off of the Mississippi River. Senator Jacobs stated that the City of Rock Island is in
desperate shape for economic opportunities. Senator Jacobs stated that Casino Rock Island’s
project would provide a lot of construction jobs. Senator Jacobs stated that he believes that

 the new property would allow Casino Rock Island to set up a resort destination that would
attract people from outside of the region.
Representative Verschoore was present to express his support for Casino Rock Island’s
request to relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr. Verschoore urged the Board to act on
Casino Rock Island’s request in a favorably manor. Mr. Verschoore stated that the City of
Rock Island desperately needs the revenue that would be generated from the project.
Dan Carmody, President of Renaissance Rock Island, was present to express his support for
Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr. Carmody stated
that Renaissance Rock Island is the business community in Rock Island who partners with
the City and the school district to try to revive the economy. Mr. Carmody stated that the
business community is excited about the opportunity to take back the riverfront and doing
some different things there. Mr. Carmody urged the Board to act quickly on Casino Rock
Island’s request.
Shea Doyle, Representative of the Downtown Rock Island Arts and Entertainment District
was present to express his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the
Mississippi River. Mr. Doyle stated that since the 1980’s the transformation of downtown
has been nothing short of extraordinary, and Casino Rock Island has been really instrumental
in that transformation. Mr. Doyle stated that the business community believes that the
downtown area would still benefit from the casino by having their customers visit the
downtown area and the casino’s continued support in the City’s arts and entertainment
festivals.
Mike Thoms, Representative of the Development Association of Rock Island was present to
express his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River.
Mr. Thoms stated that the project would not only create more construction jobs, but full-time
jobs at the casino, as well as jobs that are created in businesses that service Casino Rock
Island such as hotels, restaurants. Mr. Thoms stated that the new location would be a prime
spot to attract tourists driving through the State.
Phil Scott, Representative of the Development Association of Rock Island was present to
express his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River.
Mr. Scott stated that the reason for riverboat gambling was job creation. Mr. Scott stated that
for the past two years the population in Rock Island has declined due to the lack of job
opportunities. Mr. Scott stated that Casino Rock Island’s request would create more jobs.
Rory Washburn, Representative of the Tri-City Building Trades Council was present to
express his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River.
Mr. Washburn stated that he represents 9,000 men and women working in the construction
industry in the Quad Cities. Mr. Washburn stated that together these men and women have
worked with Casino Rock Island, who has been a great community partner and a good
neighbor with the downtown Rock Island business. Mr. Wasburn stated that Casino Rock
Island’s project would be vital to the economic future to the City of Rock Island. Mr.
2

 Washburn urged the Board to take positive action on Casino Rock Island’s request as soon as
possible.
John Churuvia, Representative of Sheet Metal Workers of Local 91 was present to express
his support for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr.
Churuvia stated that in the 60 years that he has been around, it seemed like whenever new
development was the topic of discussion it was never carried out. Mr. Churuvia stated that
the City of Rock Island cannot afford to let this project fall through. Mr. Churuvia stated that
the City of Rock Island desperately needs the project, which would bring work to the
community.
Jim DeDecker, Representative of Laborers Local 309 was present to express his support for
Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr. DeDecker stated
that Casino Rock Island’s project would be beneficial to the City of Rock Island, the County,
and the State of Illinois. Mr. DeDecker stated that this would be a “win-win” situation for
everyone concerned. Mr. DeDecker stated that the economic impact of the project would be
considerably helpful. Mr. DeDecker stated that it’s not just a casino that we are looking at;
it’s a hotel and a convention center, which means more tourism for the City of Rock Island.
Mike Wilcher, Representative of Ironworkers Local 111 was present to express his support
for Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr. Wilcher stated
that the City of Rock Island and the representatives of the building trades need this project
and the jobs that would be developed from the project.
ChrisTina S. Kost, Liaison Officer, Big Island River Conservancy District was present to
discuss Casino Rock Island’s project development. Ms. Kost stated that she has met with
Casino Rock Island’s President and Engineer, and has developed a working relationship with
them. Ms. Kost stated that the Big Island River Conservancy District must have the ability to
do its job, which is to protect the Milan Big Island Local Flood Protection Project, and the
district’s water resources. Ms. Kost stated that she is not present before the Board to stop or
to hinder Casino Rock Island’s project from going forward. Ms. Kost stated that she is
present to receive the full cooperation and commitment from Casino Rock Island and its
representatives to provide her with sufficient information and access to its development site
to ensure that the development would not have a negative impact to Big Island River
Conservancy District’s flood control or to the district’s water resources.
Ms. Kost introduced Dr. Schwartz, who briefly shared with the Board his opinion on the
proposed pipeline that River Stone is proposing to develop that would cross the casino
property and the Milan Big Island Local Flood Protection Plan. Dr. Schwartz stated that he
believes that the Gaming Board should be concerned about public safety. Dr. Schwartz
stated that the proposed pipeline could cause a disruption in public safety.
Chairman Jaffe asked what Big Island River Conservancy District expects from the Board.
Ms. Kost stated that the reason why she is has come before the Board is because the Big

3

 Island River Conservancy District has to have information and site access to the casino’s
property.
Member Winkler inquired if the proposed pipeline that River Stone is proposing to be
developed has been approved. Ms. Kost stated that it has not. Ms. Kost stated that all of the
permits are not in. Ms. Kost stated that the pipeline easement does rest on private property,
which is the Casino Rock Island. Ms. Kost stated that she is requesting from Casino Rock
Island right of entry to ensure that activities that haven’t been permitted haven’t begin.
Member Winkler inquired in what way would the casino be impacted by the River Stone
project. Ms. Kost stated that without complete plans, she would be speaking out of turn at
this time.
Ms. Kost stated that there are two main focuses that the District has: (1) to protect the Milan
Big Island Local Flood Protection Project, (2) to ensure that the district’s water resources are
not negatively impacted.
Member Gardner inquired about the letter that Ms. Kost received from Casino Rock Island.
Member Gardner asked if Casino Rock Island is agreeing to help as she asked.
Ms. Kost stated that she just received the letter today and the District’s attorney has not had a
chance to review it. Ms. Kost stated that by meeting with the Vice President and the
Engineer of Casino Rock Island and by receiving the letter from Casino Rock Island today, it
is a great step towards a good working relationship.
Member Gardner stated that the Board cannot guarantee that Casino Rock Island would
honor their commitment that they stated in their letter to the Big Island River Conservancy
District, however, with the letter in hand, Casino Rock Island has shown their strong
commitment to help.
Member Gardner stated that the Board would take into consideration the best interest of the
people of the State of Illinois when making decisions with regards to all of its licensees.
Jerry Neff, Sierra Club, was present to express his concerns regarding the environmental
issues that surround Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate off of the Mississippi River.
Mr. Neff stated that the casino would not exactly be in the wetland but would be very close
to the boundaries. Mr. Neff expressed his concerns regarding pollution from the parking lots
that could affect the water quality; casino lights that could affect wild life; outdoor activities
that could affect wild life; and the 14-story hotel that could affect the birds.
Member Winkler inquired if Mr. Neff is suggesting that the Army Core of Engineers and
others have evaluated the impact on the site that the Casino Rock Island is proposing to
relocate to, but have not evaluated the environmental impact on the wetlands that surround
that site and on the adjacent land where the Bald Eagle and the Illinois River Otter would be
an inhabitant. Mr. Neff stated that that is the way the he understands it.
4

 Rev. William G. Owen was present to discuss the affects of gambling on the communities
that would be involved in the Casino Rock Island project. Rev. Owen stated that the project
would benefit the communities economically, however, the reality is somewhat grimmer.
Rev. Owen stated that the presence of gambling within a 50-mile radius of a community
doubles the incidents of pathological gamblers within that community. Rev. Owen provided
the Board with statistics relating to the negative affects that gambling has on a community.
Rev. Owen urged the Board not to allow Casino Rock Island to relocate.
Owner Licensee Items

Casino Rock Island – Request to Relocate off of Mississippi River- Ron Wicks,
President, was present on behalf of Casino Rock Island to request final approval to
relocate off of the Mississippi River. Mr. Wicks thanked the Board for coming out to
Rock Island. Mr. Wicks stated that he hopes that the Board has seen the positive effects
that a private-public partnership would have in the City of Rock Island. Mr. Wicks stated
that Casino Rock Island tries as an organization to be a good cooperate citizen. Mr.
Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island wants to grow its business and ensure that it is
sound and can compete in the marketplace.
Member Gardner inquired what Casino Rock Island thinks it would be getting if the Board
approves its request to relocate to the new site. Mr. Wicks stated that the way he understands
it, the Board is just giving Casino Rock Island the authority to move its operation off of the
Mississippi River to the new location. Mr. Wicks stated that there are still other issues such
as architectural designs, a financial package, and a business structure. Mr. Wick stated that
Casino Rock Island would like to present those issues before the Board soon.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation and the presentation by Mr. Wicks
and the members of the Rock Island community, Member Gardner moved that the Board
give a very limited approval to Casino Rock Island to continue their work in moving off
the Mississippi River to the site at intersection I-280 and 92. Member Sullivan seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At approximately 5:30 P.M., Member Winkler moved that the Board reconvene into Closed
session. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
At approximately 5:56 P.M. the Board recessed until October 19, 2005.
On October 19, 2005, at approximately 11:30 A.M., the Board engaged in a tour of Par-ADice Casino. The tour lasted until approximately 2:00 P.M. and the Board adjourned.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

5

 Secretary to the Board

