MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
May 21, 2007
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, May 21, 2007 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago,
Illinois.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner,
Joseph Moore, and James Sullivan.
At 10:00 a.m. on Monday, May 21, 2007 Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to
Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d)
of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:45 p.m. The Board went into
Open Session at 2:05 p.m.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of April 16 and 17, 2007 and open session minutes of the Regular Board meeting of
April 17, 2007. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM -

• Rule 840 – Digital Recording and Record Retention (First Notice)
Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed revisions to sections
3000.625 and 3000.840 of the Adopted Rules for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State
upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Gardner seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that staff had meetings with some of the general managers within
the last several months. Ostrowski also went on to state that this will become a regular
occurrence at the Gaming Board.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Nancy Duel – Anti Gambling Task Force – United Methodist Churches of the Northern Illinois
Conference
Ms. Duel went on to commend the Board on protecting the integrity of gaming in Illinois. She
questioned Penn’s motive for wanting to keep the license in which it agreed to sell. If they are
allowed to keep the license, she went on to say that Penn would own 3 riverboats in the State of
Illinois. This would mean that Penn is in control of 1/3 of the casinos in Illinois. Harrah’s sold
their casino in Illinois so that they would not have a monopoly in Illinois, so why would Penn be
allowed to do so? She stated that Penn should have to stick with the original agreement.
Penn National Gaming –
Jordan Savitch, Len DeAngelo, Tom Auriemma, Carl Sottosanti, Paul Jensen, Larry Suffredin
were present for any and all questions.
The purpose of their appearance was to explain why Penn would like to retain the Empress
Casino. They want the Board to reconsider Penn having to sell the Empress.
Jordan Savich went on to address several issues:
Undue economic concentration - Penn has given a number of facts to staff, over the period of
ownership, Penn’s market share has not increased whereas Harrah’s was able to increase it’s
market share by 2%.
The issue of promises fulfilled at time of the transaction - over one billion dollars has been
invested in acquiring properties and renovating them. The commitment to the community has
increased, along with the charitable giving which has increased by 10% over a 3-year period. At
Empress we have increased our contribution to the community by 74%. The commitment to
diversity has also increased. Penn has exceeded most of the general statewide averages when it
comes to diversity. Purchasing has focused on obtaining goods and services from minority
owned businesses. In Aurora alone, they have increased the qualified spend by 24%, and at
Empress 31%. Member Moore asked in total what does that represent, and Mr. Savich stated
that at Aurora, over $250,000. The tax issues for shareholders would be devastating if Penn had
to sell the Empress. We have worked through the dynamic nature of the legislative actions in the
State of Illinois. In closing, the privilege to be in the State of Illinois is greatly appreciated.
Penn has worked hard to be a responsible and reliable operator in the State of Illinois. Penn has
kept their promises.

2

 The Chairman asked what legislative action is Penn referring to, and Mr. Savich explained the
tax environment - the hold harmless provision and the 3% tax are the key issues. Penn has still
been able to increase their charitable giving and their qualified spending. In terms of selling, the
tax reflects at what price Empress could be sold. Breaking even would be impossible.
Member Moore asked about the minority supplier dollars. Member Moore asked for the figure
of the total vendor business. He was told that it represents a quarter of the qualified spend.
Member Moore wanted to know the total dollars spent. Penn stated that the exact amount would
be supplied. Member Moore stated that $200,000 is a very insignificant amount. Penn stated
that there are a very limited amount of suppliers for the slot machines, due to the limited
approval list of them, but in the other areas minority suppliers are definitely utilized. Penn
agreed to supply a more detailed list of vendors in use, and Member Gardner asked if they would
do that before the next Regular Board Meeting.
Member Gardner went on to say that he had two objections to the letter that was sent to the
Gaming Board from Penn. First of all, he strongly believes that the Board has an unquestioned
and unfettered right at any time to require any licensee that obtains an undue economic influence
to divest themselves. Member Gardner went on to say that in Penn’s letter, he thought that Penn
tried to acknowledge the Board’s right to some extent or perhaps put some handcuffs on that
right and that is at about page 9 or 10 in the letter. Member Gardner encouraged Penn to rethink
that and the Board does have a right to demand at any time the divestiture of the property if the
Board feels that Penn has obtained an undue economic influence. Mr. Savich stated that if Penn
did imply anything to the contrary it certainly was not intended. He went on to state that he
believes the Board does have the right to make such demand. Member Gardner went on to his
2nd comment about one of the charts; it mentioned the increase in charitable contributions to the
communities served; one of them talked about how laudable Penn’s record was; Member
Gardner said he would call it at best inadequate. Penn gives less than ½ of 1% to local
communities from that facility. That is an inadequate investment in the community. Mr. Savich
stated that he would definitely look into the charitable giving numbers.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Tony Laserba made a brief presentation as to the purchasing of digital surveillance equipment at
the Grand Victoria Casino.
A pamphlet was supplied with information referencing the surveillance equipment.
Synectics digital system meets the goals for Grand Victoria Casino. Synectics has been in
business for over 15 years and specializes in the gaming industry with digital equipment being
supplied to over 30 casinos and over 15,000 digital channels. The company has partnered with
IBM, Microsoft, and Seagate/Western. It has over $150M in sales.
Synectics supplies superior video quality with low storage requirements, minimal networking
expertise required to use or maintain, no single point of failure, the system is reliable, redundant,
and contains intelligent fail over. The process of the transition should take about 5 months.
Member Gardner stated that all of the casinos are encouraged to use digital surveillance, and that
all their efforts are appreciated and the Board should waive the two-meeting rule.

3

 • Grand Victoria Casino – Request for Approval to Purchase Surveillance Equipment (If
Waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule is Approved)
Pursuaant to section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Gardner moved that the
Board waive the two-meeting rule required by section 3000.105(e) of the Rules to permit
Grand Victoria Casino to present to the Board its request for approval to purchase digital
surveillance equipment. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved,
pursuant to section 3000.230(d)(i)(j) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, to approve Grand
Victoria Casino’s request to purchase $2.3M of surveillance equipment from Southwest
Surveillance Systems, Inc. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

• Harrah’s Joliet – Eric Jokisch, Staff Auditor – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve Eric Jokisch, Level One Occupational Licensee in the position of Staff
Auditor at Harrah’s Joliet. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Joe Domenico introduced Mike Rich as the senior vice president and new general manager of
Harrah’s Metropolis. Mike Crider will be retiring after 14 years of service with Harrah’s.
•

Casino Rock Island – License Renewal

Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve the Owner's License of the Casino Rock Island for a term of 4 years
expiring in May, 2011.
Furthermore, Member Moore moved that the IGB designate and approve the following
business entities, individuals and positions as Key Persons of Jumer’s Casino Rock Island.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Chairman of the Board/Treasurer
Vice President/Owner Director
President/Director
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
D. James Jumer
James F. Jumer
John A. Jumer
Sylvia M. Jumer Wicks
Ronald Wicks
Gary Buettner

4

 Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
•

Casino Rock Island – Sean Bateman, Director of Slot Operations – Level One

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Sean Bateman, Level One Occupational Licensee in the position of Director
of Slot Operations at Casino Rock Island. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. - Elisabeth Carrette – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board approve Elisabeth Carrette, Key Person for Gaming Partners International
USA, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board
approve 40 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 133 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Diane Robinson
Howard Kirby
Mary Watts
Willie Andrew Berry
Tony Duncan
Priscilla Gilmore
Angela Jones
Gia Scales

Member Moore commented on the denials. Four of the above are from the Penn organization.
These 8 individuals were given jobs by the casinos and when the Gaming Board went and did
their investigation, they found the 8 not suitable for the jobs. This is an on-going occurrence and
we ask the casinos to be more careful in hiring of the applicants.

5

 Member Gardner reiterated Member Moore’s comments. People that are convicted of crimes of
theft or dishonesty are ineligible to work at the casino. That’s the rule and everyone has access
to conviction information. They are statutorily ineligible.
Chairman Jaffe echoed the statements of Members Moore and Gardner. He went on to stay that
we don’t have adequate staffing and conducting the investigations that the casinos are suppose to
do is very time consuming. Please heed the words of Members Moore and Gardner.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

• Denise Ibarra – Request for Leave to Reapply for Occupational License
Pursuant to section 3000.245 (f) of the Board's Adopted Rules, Member Sullivan moved to deny
Denise Ibarra's Request For Leave to Reapply for an occupational license. Member Moore
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORTS

• In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Kerry Kelly, DC-06-16
Member Moore moved for the entry of a Final Board Order revoking the occupational
license of Kerry Kelly and setting forth the bases for revocation. Member Gardner seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Chairman Jaffe stated that the motions from Emerald were not received until the prior week, and
the Board has not had sufficient time to discuss or consider them. It is the Chairman’s
recommendation that since the Board and staff has not had adequate time to read and review
them, the Board will address these issues at the next Regular Board Meeting.
•

In Re: Disciplinary Action of Emerald Casino, Inc., DC-01-05

• Motion for Immediate Consideration of Emerald’s Motion for Stay and Motion for
Stay of Final Order of December 20, 2005
Member Gardner moved that the Board enter the following Order (see attached order).
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

6

 ADJOURNMENT
At 3:00 p.m. Member Gardner moved to adjourn. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 