STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 20, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference); Michael Coli, Member of the Board;
Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board (participated by telephoneconference); John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan, Sharon B. Wells,
and Sylvia Rios acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting. Member Hade was absent.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 11, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the January 8, 2008 meeting. Member Coli moved
to approve the minutes. Member Hernandez seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from January 1 through January 31, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-07-121
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/County of Lee

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Wells' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO). After a short discussion, the Board resolved to take the
matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
2.
Case Nos. S-RC-05-090 and S-RC-07-016
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 294/American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois, Departments of Central Management
Services and Corrections
Case No. S-RC-07-006
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services/Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers
International Union, Local 2002
Chairman Gallagher called the cases and summarized their procedural backgrounds. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ
Clifford's recommendation with the sole exception of his determination that some of the petitioned-for
investigators were security employees within the meaning of the Act. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reasoned that given the ALJ's findings, it was unnecessary for the Board to reach that question. The
Chairman and Board Members then engaged in a discussion of the ALJ’s determinations and the issues
raised by the exceptions. At the conclusion thereof, the Board resolved to take the matter up again at its
March 11 meeting.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-04-341
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/DuPage County
Public Defender
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO. After a
short discussion, the Board resolved to take the matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
Case No. S-RC-08-011
4.
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 710/Village of Burnham
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO. After a
short discussion, the Board resolved to take the matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
Case No. S-CB-06-020
5.
East St. Louis Housing Authority/Service Employees International Union, Local 73
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO. After a
short discussion, the Board resolved to take the matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
6.
Case Nos. S-CB-07-018
DeAngelo T. Franklin/Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 4, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's dismissal. After discussion, the
Board resolved to take the matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
7.
Case No. S-CA-08-036
East Moline Fire Fighters Association, Local 929, International Association of Fire
Fighters/City of East Moline
Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case. Acting General Counsel Wells detailed her review of
the matter and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's order deferring the case pending
completion of the parties' contractual grievance process. After a short discussion, the Board resolved to take
the matter up again at its March 11 meeting.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding either fiscal or legislative matters and
reminded that the March meeting was scheduled to be held in Springfield. Thereafter, the Board discussed
whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of March, 2008.

2

 