MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 12, 2006
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 11, 2006 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle for
closed session.
The following Board Members were present: Members Charles Gardner, Joseph Moore, Eugene
Winkler and James Sullivan and Chairman Jaffe via telephone.
At 9:30 A.M. Member Gardner called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling
Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed Session Minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
The Board convened its Open session at 1:10 P.M. pursuant to motion.
Member Gardner explained that Chairman Jaffe will participate via telephone and the he will fill
in physically in Chairman Jaffe’s absence.
Roll was taken with four members present and Chairman Jaffe participated via telephone.
Approval of Minutes
Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the closed and open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of August 14 and 15, 2006. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Board Members’ Comments
Member Moore commented on his attendance at the Harrah’s Joliet Supplier Diversity fair.
Member Moore stated that Harrah’s did a good job and also had a good group present. Member

 Moore also commented on the fact that Hollywood Casino Aurora will be sponsoring a Supplier
Diversity fair on September 21, 2006 from 12:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Member Moore stated that
Hollywood should put the word out to the non-for-profit groups so they may also participate.
Administrator’s Report
Mark Ostrowski stated that there would be a General Manager’s meeting on November 21, 2006.
The Administrator also announced that the October 2006 meeting that was supposed to take
place in Metropolis will take place in Chicago due to the fact that the commute to Metropolis is a
difficult one. Board and staff will go to Metropolis independently. The November meeting will
take place on November 20, 2006 due to the G2E conference.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
Caleb Melamed explained the revisions in Rulemaking affecting the Self-Exclusion Program.
Member Moore moved that the Board approve staff to submit the following new and revised
rules for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by
the Administrator: 3000.400, 3000.425, 3000.435, 3000.700, 3000.701, 3000.705(repealed),
3000.710, 3000.720, 3000.730, 3000.740, 3000.745, 3000.750, 3000.770, 3000.780, 3000.782,
3000.785, 3000.786, 3000.787 and 3000.790. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
● Casino Queen – Jill A. Sager, Internal Auditor Manager – Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board approve Jill A. Sager as a Level One Occupational Licensee of Casino
Queen, Inc. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
• Casino Rock Island – Request for New Site Financing
Joe Montana addressed the Board on behalf of Guggenheim. Mr. Montana assured the
Board with respect to the financing documents, any change of ownership or control
would need to be approved by the Board and it will be reflected in the documents
supplied.
Member Gardner stated that the Board is concerned with an 85% leverage ratio. The
Board is in the process of reviewing everything and Member Gardner stated that the
Board reiterated that nothing will occur without the Board’s approval. Member Gardner
encouraged Casino Rock Island to meet all their goals.
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation Member Moore moved to approve
the August 28, 2006 Commitment Letter between The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.,

2

 Guggenheim Corporate Funding, LLC and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A subject to
final approval of the Operative Documents and Lenders.
Member Moore further moved to delegate to the Administrator approval of CRI's request
to continue site preparation, in an amount not to exceed $3 Million, provided that said
approval does not bind or commit the Board to approve the financing Operative
Documents or the construction contracts. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 46 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 174 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Albert Gladney, Security Officer Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Albert Gladney, a Level 2
Occupational Licensee, for failing to comply with the Illinois Riverboat Gambling
Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules in relation to his allowing a minor to board the
Alton Belle through the vender entrance.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Mr. Gladney’s Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
this complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

● Par-A-Dice Casino Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Par-A-Dice Corporation d/b/a Par-ADice Casino for its failure to timely replace six revoked EPROMs despite having
received prior notice of the impending revocations, in violation of the Board’s Rules.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board impose a fine of $25,000 on Par-A-Dice
Casino. Said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

3

 Member Gardner stated that a letter was sent from Par-A-Dice in reference to the
violation.
Member Gardner also stated that new procedures were implemented by Par-A-Dice so
that incidents such as this will not happen again.
● Par-A-Dice Casino Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Boyd Gaming Corporation and ParA-Dice Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Casino for remotely deploying a program
modification to the computer system at Par-A-Dice Casino, in violation of the
remote access prohibition set forth in the Board’s Rules.
Member Winkler further moved the Board impose a fine of $100,000 on Boyd Gaming
Corporation. Said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board impose a fine of $20,000 on Par-ADice Casino. Said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
● Casino Rock Island –
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Rock Island Boatworks d/b/a Casino
Rock Island for its failure to comply with the Board’s Rules and other requirements
in relation to the Board’s Self-Exclusion Program and for failing to maintain an
appropriate system to identify persons enrolled in the Program, cashing checks for
enrollees in the Program and for failure to adequately train Casino Rock Island
employees to properly identify Self-Exclusion Program enrollees.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board impose a fine of $ 100,000 on Casino
Rock Island. Said action to take effect twenty-one days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORTS
● In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Bruce E. Scott, DC-05-11
ALJ Recommendation – IGB Final Order

4

 Pursuant to section 3000.1155 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Moore moved for the
adoption and entry of the attached final Board order revoking the occupational license held
by Bruce E. Scott and setting forth therein the reasons for revocation.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
● In Re: The Disciplinary Action of Robert Spain, DC-06-11 – Settlement Agreement
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board accept the proposed
settlement agreement and delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute such
agreement.
Further Member Sullivan moved that the Board authorize legal counsel to present the
executed settlement agreement to the Administrative Law Judge for disposition of this
matter, in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
Jeremy Geller, President of the Illinois Council on Problem Gambling addressed the Board in
open session.
Mr. Geller introduced himself to the Board and stated that the association is in the process of
reorganization and will gladly work with the Gaming Board. Mr. Geller stated that the ICPG is
approached by local groups to address school, churches, etc., most recently by the University of
Illinois Champaign. The Council spreads awareness regarding gambling and the potential
dangers associated with gambling.
Member Gardner inquired about Mr. Geller’s education and past experience. Member Winkler
asked how Mr. Geller happened to get interested in problem gambling, and how the council goes
about spreading the word of problem gambling to schools.
Member Winkler moved that the meeting be adjourned at 1:45 and was seconded by Member
Moore. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 