STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on November 9, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F.
Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Eileen L. Bell, Martin J.
Kehoe, and Sharon B. Wells also acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD OCTOBER 5, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman requested a modification of the draft minutes of the October 5, 2010 meeting, to
more accurately reflect the Board's deliberations. After the Board discussed the proposal, Member Coli
moved to approve minutes of the October 5, 2010 meeting, with the requested modification thereto.
Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from October 1 through October 31, 2010. He distributed the report to
the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-09-180
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Costello's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision, but with minor modifications thereto. After
discussion, Member Washington moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-09-036
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Bell reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Rios' RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision, but with minor modifications
thereto. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept Counsel Bell's recommendation. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-06-307
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/Town of Cicero
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kehoe reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After discussion,
Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's decision. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-09-055
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 243/Village of Ford Heights
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post, with the assistance of the Board's extern,
Deena Sanceda, reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and recommended
that the Board accept the ALJ's decision, but with modifications thereto. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member Hade seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-09-063
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 537/Village of Carol Stream
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-10-129
Atterberry, Mayfield, Humphrey, Leggs, and Cross/PACE South Division
Case No. S-CA-10-129
Atterberry, Mayfield, Humphrey, Leggs, and Cross/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1028
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued dismissals on June
30, 2010, with appeals filed by Charging Parties. Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the
appeals, and recommended that the Board accept the executive director's order. After discussion, Member
Hade moved to accept the executive director's order. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board heard and considered the fiscal and legislative reports in a joint panel meeting earlier on this
date. Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to go into executive session to
discuss personnel matters pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1). Member Hade seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli
made a motion to leave executive session. Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member Hade
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of December, 2010.
2

 