Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes - Riverboat
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
April 21, 2017
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Friday, April 21, 2017, a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 1st floor at Wyndham Hotel in Springfield, Illinois at 8:58 A.M.
Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Hector Alejandre, Steve Dolins and
Thomas Dunn. Member Robinson participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its
Regular Meeting of March 23, 2017. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM


Presentation by Caleb Melamed

Member Dunn moved to amend the Riverboat Gambling Rules by making technical
changes and deleting unnecessary or duplicative language by authorizing staff to submit a
proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval
by the Administrator. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration


(Board Action / Vote Required)

Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – d/b/a Rivers Casino – Ronald
Baumann – Chief Operating Officer – Level 1 and Key Person

Member Dolins moved that the Board find suitable and approve Ronald Baumann as a
Level 1 Occupational Licensee and Key Person of Midwest Gaming and Entertainment,
LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino in his position as Chief Financial Officer. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals and Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
Member Alejandre moved to find suitable and approve 50 Level 2 Occupational licenses
and 97 Level 3 Occupational licenses and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to:

 Andrea Marie Ciriaco
James Arthur McCoo III
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Dunn moved that the Board revoke the occupational license of Christopher
Szarejko due to his conduct which resulted in his termination from Rivers Casino, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to
the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board revoke the occupational license of Rosanno Deleos
for engaging in theft at Grand Victoria Casino by stealing valet tips for which he was
terminated, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint,
unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time frame. Member Dunn
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved the Board revoke the occupational license of Louise
Mushimiyimana due to a conviction for Retail Theft, said action to take effect 21 days from
the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed
within that time frame. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board adopt the Recommended Decision of the
Administrative Law Judge in regards to DC-16-23, and issue a final order revoking the
occupational license of Jeta Abdi. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
AWARD OF RFP FY18 IGB CAF COMPLIANCE REVIEWS AND AGREED UPON
ATTESTATION SERVICES
Member Dolins moved that, based on a review of the scores provided by the Board's
evaluation committee, the Board award "RFP FY18 IGB CAF Compliance Review and
Agreed Upon Attestation Services" (PBC#22039987) to the following certified public
accounting firms:
Group 1 – Alton & Rivers
Group 2 – Harrah's Joliet & Jumers
Group 3 – Harrah's Metropolis & Aurora
Group 4 – Par-A-Dice & Elgin
Group 5 – Queen & Hollywood Joliet

Crowe Horwath, LLP
Adelfia, LLC
Rubin Brown, LLP
Kerber, Eck and Braeckel, LLP
E.C. Ortiz & Co., LLP

and authorize the Administrator to enter into contracts each Certified Public Accounting
Firm to provide review and agreed upon attestation services for the Illinois Gaming Board

2

 under the Riverboat Gambling Act for a period of four years. Member Alejandre seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:14 A.M., Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Dolins seconded the motion. All
members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 