 

?3

II.

0



ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

JOINT PANEL

MINUTES OF THE JOINT PANEL MEETING HELD ON

MARCH 31, 2003

OPENING OF MEETING 9:45 A.M. 160 North LaSalle Street, Suite N-
400, Chicago, Illinois 60601-3103

PRESENT

Mike Breslan, Joint Meeting Chair, Pam McDonough, Local Chair; Local Panel

Members, Donald Hubert, Edward E. Sadlowski; State Panel Members, Ted

Lechowicz, Mike P. Madigan, Thomas Walsh; Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, General

Counsel; Brian E. Reynolds, Executive Director; staff members and members of

the public.

RULES DISCUSSION TO BE TAKEN AT THIS MEETING

Chair Breslan commented that the rules were well articulated and well in order.
Member Lechowicz raised the question regarding salaries for appointed counsel
stemming from page twelve, Sec 1220.105, section He mentioned that the
appointment of counsel had never been restricted for recommendation of salaries,
whether it is seventy??ve dollars or thirty dollars. Executive Director Reynolds
responded that statute requires the Board to pay counsel fees for a proven indigent
state person and Fred Wickizer aids in determining their indigent status. There is

a based salary Structure mirroring the federal courts and established a limit of ?ve

 

 

 

thoUsand dollars. This amount is based and set in the Board?s budget. Member
Madigan commented that the Attorney General?s discounted rate is two hundred
dollars per hour. Member Madigan added that this rate is typical in government

agencies for representation cases.

Member Hubert questioned the overall response from the community. Staff
Member Julie Africk commented that response was good and helpful. Before the 
process and drafting changes, a letter was sent out to interested parties and upon
receiving their feedback, many of the suggested changes were incorporated. In
the revised rules under tab a, listed is are the speci?c criticisms, suggestions and
comments raised by'interested persons and the agency?s analysis. Many of the.
suggestions were incorporated; such as the mailbox rule with concern to ?ling and
service of documents, where the current rule is that documents are considered
?led upon the date of the postmark. The proposed change was to consider those
documents ?led on the date of receipt. The response from this proposed change
concluded that change would be burdensome so it was decided to retain the
current rule. Other comments concemed requesting extending the time to thirty
days to appeal to Executive Director?s Orders, but that suggestion was
respectively rejected. Overall, the accepted comments were incorporated into the

proposed rules and draft was resubmitted.

Member Hubert questioned if there were any suggestions that the Board should be

alerted to that would warrant a negative reaction. Ms. Africk responded that the

 

 



44444 

majority of the Suggestions were Constructive and deemed useful. Member Walsh
questioned the abbreviated list of interested persons was indeed longer than those

who replied. Ms. Africk responded that indeed the original list was longer, the

?nal list of interested parties are those who responded after the draft was

published in the Illinois Register.

Member Sadlowski requested clari?cation about the mailbox rule and commented
about the elongated discussion spent on the subject matter. He questioned
whether a faxed document would be considered ?led by referring to the
con?rmation receipt. Ms. Africk mentioned that there is fax-?ling provision is in
the rules; it requires that the party provide a con?rmation receipt and must follow
the facsimile with a mailed-hard copy. Local Panel Chair ~McDonough raised the
question regarding accepting ?lings through email and the possibility of accepting

digital signatures. General Counsel Zimmerman replied that although emailing of

documents as correspondence is already in process, the acceptance of digital

signatures is not readily available to staff members. The use of digital signatures
and ?lings would have to be closely monitored and controlled to prevent any

spam mail.

Member Hubert posed the question if there were many cases where the prevailing
party ?led exceptions. General Counsel Zimmerman replied of one particular
case where there were cross exceptions thatwere ?led to preserve their rights in

the event that the losing party ?led. Member Hubert asked for clari?cation to the 

 

 

 

. ?f 
ks

rules if there are cross exceptions ?led and the non-prevailing party withdraws,_
then all subsequent exceptions would then be considered moot. He questioned
was that only applicable where the cross exception by the prevailing party was
filed after the allotted time period. He continued by asking if that was the case,
then What would be the procedure if the prevailing party ?led within time period,
then it would not be considered moot. He posed the question Whether there
should be a provision that they can request that the issues would not be mooted.
General Counsel Zimmerman could not recollect any cases where the prevailing
party won the decision and yet decided to appeal a. particular section that they

disagreed with.

Member Sadlowski posed the question regarding charges during, the course of the
election and does that have the power to stop the eleCtion. Executive Director
Reynolds responded that the statute in section (9) allows it, a letter is then sent out
to notify the block. The statute provides that the Executive Director can. stop the
processing of the petition for an election two separate circumstances, including . 
when there is an unfair labor practice ?led that either affects the fair and free

conduct of the election.

Member Sadlowski suggested that could be. considered unfair because the
department head or employer could purposely create a situation that falls in the
category of an unfair labor practice. Executive Director Reynolds responded that

if the petitioner doesn?t want it blocked like the union, they are allowed to say that

 

 



 

they do not want it blocked. General Counsel Zimmerman drew the attention to
the rules, section 1210.100(g) and that there was no feedbackfrom the interested
parties for this particular issue. General Counsel Zimmerman stated that unlike
the National Labor Relations Board that automatically blocks, the Illinois Labor
Relations Act states that only when the parties wants the election blocked, can it

be done.

Meeting Chair Breslan commended staff and interested parties for all of their
extensive work done on the rules. Ms. Africk said their goal is to enhance the
ef?ciency of the agency and to make the procedure more user friendly. General
Counsel Zimmerman made special mention about the hard work and effort put in

by attorneys Julie Africk and Debbie Terrell (dec.)

Member Sadlowski moved that the proposed rules be accepted. Local Chair
Panel McDonough Seconded the motion. There were no abstentions and the

motion passed unanimously.

Meeting Chair Breslan called for a motion to go .into executive to discuss
personnel issues pursuant to section (2) of the Open Meetings Act. Member
Madigan made the motion to go into executive session. Member Walsh seconded.

The motion passed.

The next scheduled Board meetings for both panels would be April 22, 2003.

Local Panel?would be at 3:00 pm. and State Panel would be at 3:30 pm.

-5-

 

 



0 




General Counsel Zimmerman reminded the Board about Executive Director Brian

Reynolds? retirement party would be April 22, 2003 from 4:30 pm. 7:30 pm.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Sadlowski made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Local Chair

McDonough seconded the motion. The joint panel meeting was adjourned.

 

