MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
December 14 and 15, 2010
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, December 14, 2010 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois..
On Tuesday, December 14, 2010 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and
James Sullivan. At 9:40 A.M. on Tuesday, December 14, 2010, Chairman Jaffe called the
meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings
Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board
retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda
and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 12:35 P.M.
On Wednesday, December 15, 2010 the meeting reconvened at 11:30 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 1:00 P.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 1:08 P.M. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman
Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 16, 2010. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD MEMBER’S COMMENTS –

 ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the grand opening of the New Hollywood Casino/Empress in
Joliet, Illinois will be December 22, 2010 at 10:45 a.m.
The Administrator also stated that Hollywood Casino Aurora was removed from the agenda.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
•

2011 Board Meeting Dates

Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the following dates for Regular Board
Meetings for the 2011 Calendar year.
Monday, January 24th - Closed session
Tuesday, January 25th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, February 15th - Closed session
Wednesday, February 16th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, March 22nd - Closed session
Wednesday, March 23rd – Closed and Open
Tuesday, April 12th - Closed session
Wednesday, April 13th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, May 17th - Closed session
Wednesday, May 18th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, June 21st - Closed session
Wednesday, June 22nd - Closed and Open
Tuesday, July 12th - Closed session
Wednesday, July 13th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, August 23rd - Closed session
Wednesday, August 24th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, September 13th - Closed session
Wednesday, September 14th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, October 18th - Closed
Wednesday, October 19th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, November 15th - Closed session
Wednesday, November 16th - Closed and Open

2

 Tuesday, December 13th - Closed session
Wednesday, December 14th - Closed and Open
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Roscoe Greene Vice President of Gaming – Medical Applications Specialist

Mr. Greene appeared before the Board to introduce the company to the Board and staff and
explaining what Medical Applications Specialist does and how they can assist the gaming
community. “Secure Pass” is a screening device that can be very instrumental to the gaming
community. A demonstration will follow at the January, 2011 Regular Board meeting.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Initial Consideration –
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC - Clairvest’s Request for Approval of
Structural Changes and Delegation of Authority to Approve Final Transfer of
Units
John Janicik from the law firm Mayer Brown appeared before the Board.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC - Ownership approval – Dr. Danny
Sardon
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved to approve the following individuals, each of whom is a “minority
person” or “female” as defined under the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act
and who intend to indirectly own interests in Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC through Casino Investors, LLC.
1. Dr. Danny Sardon
Member Moore further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted
Rules to approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest
Gaming Holdings, LLC from CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC and High Plaines
Gaming, LLC and the issuance of interests to Casino Investors, LLC
consistent with the financing documents previously provided to the Board.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ●

MGM Resorts International/Nevada Landing Partnership – Request to allow
Nevada Landing Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor on Certain Debt
Attorney Paul Jenson of Shefsky and Froelich appeared before the Board on
behalf of MGM Resorts.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, pursuant to
Section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Sullivan moved to
approve MGM Resorts International’s request to approve Nevada Landing
Partnership as a Subsidiary Guarantor of the principal amount of $500
million of 10% Senior Notes Due 2016, which were sold by MGM Resorts
International in October, 2010 through private placement. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc., d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel, Stephen Witte,
Director of Slot Operations – Level One
General Manager Dan Wilson appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner
moved that the Board approve Stephen Witte as an Occupational Licensee
Level 1 in the position of Director of Slot Operations for The Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino & Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Boyd Gaming Corporation – Amended and Extended Senior Credit Facility
Attorney Martha Sabol from the law firm Greenberg Traurig appeared before the
Board on behalf of Boyd Gaming.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, pursuant to
Section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Winkler moved to
approve Boyd Gaming Corporation’s request for approval of the proposed
Second Amendment to the current Credit Agreement between Boyd Gaming
Corporation and its lenders, Bank of America N.A. (Administrative Agent
and L/C Issuer) and Wells Fargo Bank N.A.(Syndication Agent and Swing
Line Lender) and the Other Lenders party to the original Credit Agreement
as it relates to pledging the real estate and personal property of Par-A-Dice
Gaming Corporation as collateral as set forth in Sections 1.01, 1.05, 2.14,
6.13, and 7.10 of the Credit Agreement. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM

4

 ●

Cummins – Allison Corporation – Supplier Renewal
Charles Sewell Director of Finance at Cummins – Allison appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
that the Board renew the Supplier’s license of Cummins – Allison Corporation for a
term of four (4) years expiring in December 2014.
Member Moore further moved to designate and approve the following positions and
persons as Key Persons of Cummins – Allison Corporation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

President;
Chief Executive Officer;
Chief Operating Officer;
Paul A. Jones;
Anne Jones White;
John E. Jones;
William J. Jones; and
Douglas U. Mennie.

Finally, Member Moore moved that Cummins – Allison Corporation be authorized
and approved to supply the following to Illinois owner licensees:
1.
2.

Kiosk Model Series numbers 9010, 9011, 9012, 9013, 9014, and
9015;
Replacement parts, repair service, and technical support for
Illinois owner licensees.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Member Gardner asked if the Board understood correctly that there is no relationship
between Cummins Allison Corporation and Cummins Engine. Mr. Sewell stated that
there was no relationship between the two companies.
●

Incredible Technologies, Inc. – Supplier Renewal
Attorney Paul Jenson of Shefsky and Froelich appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board renew Incredible Technologies, Inc.’s Supplier’s license, for a term of
four (4) years expiring in December 2014.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to designate and approve the following positions
and persons as Key Persons of the licensee:

5

 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Chief Executive Officer;
President;
Chief Operating Officer;
Elaine A. Hodgson;
Richard A. Ditton; and
James M. Dore.

Member Sullivan further moved that Incredible Technologies, Inc. be authorized and
approved to supply the following to Illinois owner licensees:
1.

Electronic Gaming Devices (EGDs)

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
●

Western Money Systems, Inc. – Supplier Renewal
Attorney Michael Ficaro from the law firm of Ungaretti & Harris appeared before the
Board.
Member Gardner thanked Mr. Ficaro for supplying all the information necessary to
answer all the Board’s questions concerning Global Cash.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board renew Western Money Systems, Inc.’s Supplier’s license retroactively
to May 2010 and for a term of four years expiring in May, 2014.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to designate and approve the
following positions, persons and entities as Key Persons of the
licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Global Cash Access, Inc.;
Chief Executive Officer, Global Cash Access, Inc.;
President, Global Cash Access, Inc.; and
Scott Howard Betts.

Member Sullivan further moved that Western Money Systems, Inc. be authorized and
approved to supply the following to Illinois owner licensees:
1. TicketXchange series kiosks;
2. CasinoXchange series kiosks;
3. Replacement parts, repair service, and technical support for
Illinois owner licensees.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

6

 ●

Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. – New Supplier
Mr. Komorowski appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. for a Supplier’s license,
effective December 15, 2010 for a period of one (1) year, expiring in December,
2011.
Member Winkler further moved to designate and approve the following positions and
persons as Key Persons of the licensee:
1. President; and
2. Mark E. Komorowski.
Member Winkler further moved that Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. be
authorized and approved to supply the following to Illinois owner licensees:
1. Parts, equipment and gaming related supplies.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

●

GameTech International, Inc. – New Supplier
Cory Arinovitz appeared before the Board asking for waiver of the two-meeting rule and
allow GameTech International, Inc. to withdraw its application for a supplier license.
Pursuant to Section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Moore moved that
the Board waive the two-meeting rule required by Section 3000.105(e) of the Rules
to permit GameTech International, Inc. to withdraw its application.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation and pursuant to Section
3000.220(e) of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Moore moved to allow GameTech
International, Inc.’s request for leave to withdraw its application for a Supplier’s
license. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

IGT – Eric Tom, COO, Key Person
Attorney John Janicik from the law firm Mayer Brown appeared before the Board.
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
to approve Eric Tom as a Key Person of IGT in his position as Chief Operating
Officer. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve 23 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 102 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Leatrice A. Elgin;
Ronald E. Clark;
Marcus A. Burgdolf;
Barry J. Williams; and
James L. Anthony.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINT AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION
●

James F. Clark – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against James F. Clark, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board fine James F. Clark $250. Said fine
not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to take
effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Jolene D. Feltes – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Jolene D. Feltes, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board fine Jolene D. Feltes $250. Said fine
not to be paid directly or indirectly by the Owner Licensee and said action to take
effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

8

 ●

Warren M. Walker
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Warren M. Walker, an occupational
licensee, due to his surreptitiously cupping two found $100 bills in his right palm
and leaving the Casino Queen without informing his supervisor or any other casino
employee that he found the two bills, along with Walker’s refusal to admit that he
found the two bills when questioned.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Warren M. Walker’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

At 1:45 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to reconvene into closed session and Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. All Members voted in favor to reconvene into closed session.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

9

 