Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: December 21, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Horace E. Smith, M.D.

For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: December 21, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:08 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: October and November 2016 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Julie Morita, Commissioner provided the following updates:
Food Protection
 Chicago retail food establishments are safe. The Chicago Department of Public Health
innovative approach to food safety and improvements to food inspections protocols put
public safety first. Recently, the Inspector General released a report that highlighted CDPH’s
need for more funding to meet state requirements for inspections of food establishments.
Being the nation’s third largest city, it is no surprise that Chicago has more food
establishments than any other state municipality. Yet, Chicago does not receive proportionate
funding to achieve the state’s own requirements. Despite the funding obstacle, CDPH has
increased the number of inspections by 9% since 2012, and inspected every high-risk food
establishment at least once in 2015 and are on track to do the same in 2016.
Although the IG report acknowledged our many improvements and innovations (e.g.,
predictive models to identify establishments at greatest risk for critical and serious violations,
self-inspection program for low risk establishments) which have resulted in improved
efficiency and increased inspections, they concluded that CDPH needs additional resources
to meet the state mandates. The City of Chicago and the state have a shared goal of
protecting all of our residents from food-borne illnesses. An unfunded mandate is not the
solution, instead we believe in an honest dialogue about finding innovative solutions to
improve public safety. Our goal is to work with the state to find common ground and identify
additional funding and/or modifications of the requirements in order to achieve full
compliance with the mandates they set forth.
Extreme Weather Response
CDPH's role has been to work with hospitals to get data on which patients are coming into
emergency rooms due to the cold. The patients might be there for frostbite or simply to get
warm. We then pass that information on to OEMC to coordinate the response with other City
departments. This year we have already had very low temperatures and we will continue to work
closely with OEMC to help protect Chicago residents.
CDPH Strategic Plan
 CDPH recently finalized our four-year plan to improve internal operations and strengthen
our workforce. Following input from staff, the plan provides deliverables around six
goals that, once completed, will help our team perform better and improve health across
Chicago. The plan includes an update to our departmental vision and mission, bringing
them in line with Healthy Chicago 2.0’s focus on health equity, community development
and resident engagement.

Flavored Tobacco Ordinance Revisions
 The City Council made a revision to the flavored tobacco ordinance, and Jesse will
provide details.
Health Advocacy
In late November, 11 other City and County Health Commissioners and Commissioner Morita

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: December 21, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
representing 31 million residents, signed on to a letter to Vice President Mike Pence and the
members of the Presidential Transition Team strongly advocating for critical public health
priorities:







Opioid Addiction and Overdose
Public Health Preparedness
Health Babies and Children
Mental Health
Violence prevention
Healthcare Cost Reduction

Enroll Chicago
City of Chicago efforts to enroll residents in quality, affordable health coverage continues with
coordination from CDPH’s Enroll Chicago initiative. The 4th open enrollment period for the
private insurance Marketplace under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) began on November 1st and
ends on January 31.
 This past Monday was the extended deadline to complete enrollment for coverage effective
January 1, 2017 in the private insurance Marketplace.
 Enrollment in Illinois Medicaid for low and moderate income residents is year around.
CDPH is closely coordinating with City Departments, Sister Agencies, and community
stakeholders on resident engagement, education and enrollment. These efforts align with the
Health Chicago 2.0 strategic priorities.
 The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has recently released a report on the
Affordable Care Act’s impact on Illinois. Copies of the report are available at the sign-in
table. Chicago specific data should be released in the next several weeks.
Board of Health Member Anniversaries (falling before the next Board meeting)
 Horace Smith, M.D.
January 18 (2012 - 5 years)
Commissioner Morita thanked him for his years of dedicated service to residents of the City of
Chicago.
CDPH Year End Wrap Up
Commissioner Morita provided an overall of CDPH’s 2016 accomplishments.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an
overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious
disease and health issues affecting public health. Dr. Lopez wished everyone a great holiday and
thanked the department for their accomplishments throughout the year. She provided everyone
with a quote from Winston Churchill, “success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to
continue that counts.”
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following updates:
Flavored tobacco
At the last City Council meeting, aldermen passed a revision to the flavored tobacco ban within
500 feet of schools. The administration is committed to preventing youth from getting addicted
to tobacco, and the new ordinance reflects a compromise reached with aldermen who were
concerned about businesses in their wards. Aldermen had originally discussed repealing the ban,

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: December 21, 2016
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
or removing menthol from the list of flavors. However, the ordinance was passed will ensure that
stores within 500 feet of high schools are still prohibited from selling flavored tobacco products,
including menthol. The measurement remains property line to property line—not the less
expansive door to door standard that was also proposed. In addition, the ordinance includes a
number of new measures designed to strengthen the fight against Big Tobacco. It:
•
•
•
•

Bans new tobacco licenses within 500 feet of high schools, so there is likely to be gradual
attrition over time.
Requires that clerks selling tobacco be at least 21, given research that underage clerks are
far more likely to sell to underage customers.
Doubles or in some cases more than doubles the potential fines for illegal tobacco sales
like selling to minors or concealing unstamped cigarettes.
Invest new dollars in prevention efforts to keep youth from getting hooked.

Pharma Rep License
Last month the City Council passed a license for drug reps that will help hold the industry
accountable for its marketing practices while freeing up revenue for heroin addiction treatment.
The next step is to create rules implementing this ordinance, addressing issues such as ethical
standards, a process for physicians to file complaints, and topics for continuing education. We
plan to be rolling out a draft in the early part of 2017.
IRS Letter
Mayor Emanuel sent a letter in November to the IRS, co-signed by numerous hospitals and
advocates, asking the IRS to modify a tax form to clarify its definition of a hospital community
benefit to explicitly include investments in supportive housing and other programs that address
the social determinants of health. Some hospitals are unclear on exactly which activities the IRS
would count as community benefits to help justify their tax-exempt status. We believe greater
clarity from the IRS could help enable greater investments in the kinds of things we talk about in
Healthy Chicago 2.0—community factors that affect health even more than individual medical
treatment and behavior. Unfortunately, the IRS has replied and does not plan to change the form.
But they did affirm and clarify that investments in community health and social determinants of
health can be consistent with community benefits, based on the circumstances that individual
hospitals face, so we will continue working with hospitals and philanthropic partners to secure
investments in needed areas. Co-signers included Mercy, Trinity, Presence, U of I, Cook County,
Rush, Saint Anthony, Roseland, Swedish Covenant, Catholic Health Association, EverThrive,
Aids Foundation, Thresholds, Chicago Coalition of the Homeless, and others.
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:25 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, January 18, 2017 at 9:00 a.m.

 