MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
September 22, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 22, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois. The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 9:31 A.M.
Present were Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee Gould, Hector Alejandre and Member Dunn
participated via telephone.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS The Administrator stated that there were 5,106 locations up and running with a total of 21,431
active VGT’s.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 25, 2015. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS (amendment of video gaming rules sections)
Acting Deputy General Counsel Paul Prezioso addressed the Board.
Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Section 78 of the Video Gaming Act gives the Illinois
Gaming Board rulemaking authority over video gaming. The Board’s legal staff is hereby
submitting a proposal to amend the video gaming rules.
The proposed rulemaking amends video gaming Rule 260 to prohibit licensed terminal handlers
and licensed technicians from playing video gaming terminals. As you know, licensed
technicians are licensed to repair, service, and maintain VGTs, and licensed terminal handlers are
licensed to possess or control VGTs and to have access to their inner workings.
The rulemaking also amends video gaming Rule 430 to prohibit a Person with Significant
Influence or Control of a terminal operator from playing video gaming terminals at a location
with which the terminal operator has entered into a use agreement.
Finally, the rulemaking amends video gaming Rule 270 by requiring video gaming terminals to
be played only during business hours when the location is open for business or, in the case of
licensed fraternal establishments and licensed veterans establishments, when the location is
generally open to the membership.

 The changes made by this rulemaking are intended to further ensure the integrity of video
gaming in Illinois.
Member Gould moved to amend Sections 260, 430 and 270 of the Board’s Rules on video
gaming by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of
State upon final review and approval by the Administrator. Member Dunn seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR ITEMS: (License Renewals)
Bell Gaming LLC
Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal Operator license of Bell Gaming, LLC for a
period of one year, set to expire in September 2016. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
GEM-SPV, LLC
Member Gould moved to renew the Terminal Operator license of GEM-SPV, LLC for a period
of one year, set to expire in September 2016. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DSG Amusement, LTD.
Member Gould moved to deny the renewal of Terminal Operator license of DSG Amusement,
LTD as it has not established that it remains suitable to be a licensed terminal operator. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Member Gould moved to approve:
Terminal Handler Licenses 31
Technician Licenses 0
And authorize the Administrator to issue notices of denial to the following
Applicants:
 Ryan Thomas Millikan
 Michael Moore
 Jason Rivera
 Christopher Kokott
Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

2

 VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS:
Video Gaming Location License Approvals & Denials
Member Gould moved to approve 101 Video Gaming Location Licenses and authorize the
Administrator to issue notices of denial to the following applicants:
 Quincy Post No. 37, The American Legion, Department of Illinois d/b/a Quincy Post
No. 37, The American Legion, Department of Illinois
 Meranda Ashby d/b/a Crazy 8's Billiards and Bar
 Dynamite Management Company d/b/a The Locker Room
 The Baron Bar & Grill, Inc. d/b/a The Remedy Pub
 Graham Enterprises of Central Illinois, LLC d/b/a Springfield Racquet & Fitness
Center
 Centerville Station LLC d/b/a Centerville Station
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Hometown, Illinois Locations
Member Gould moved to authorize the Administrator to issue notices of denial to:
Bella’s Hometown, LLC d/b/a Bella’s (License Number 150702130); Gigi’s Hometown,
LLC d/b/a Gigi’s (License Number 150702118); and TC Pub 5 Inc. (License Number
150702447). Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Jones Plaza, LLC
Member Alejandre moved to rescind the notice of denial issued at the August 2015 Board
Meeting and grant Jones Plaza, LLC an establishment license, and to deny the Request for
Hearing as moot. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Mick Martin
Member Alejandre moved to rescind the notice of denial issued at the July 2015 Board Meeting
and grant Mick Martinez a terminal handler license, and to deny the Request for Hearing as
moot. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by roll call vote.
Brandon Eller
Member Alejandre moved to rescind the notice of denial issued at the July 2015 Board Meeting
and grant Brandon Eller a terminal handler license and to deny the Request for Hearing as moot.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

3

 Springfield Pub, Inc.
Chairman Tracy moved to grant the hearing request for Springfield Pub, Inc. as it has
established a prima facie case for hearing. Member Dunn seconded the motion. Members
Gould and Alejandre voted No. The motion did not pass.
Fox Gaming LLC
Member Gould moved to deny the hearing request from Fox Gaming, LLC. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Gould moved to grant the requests to reapply from Scooters Bar, LLC and La Isla
Tropical Restaurant, LLC. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Licensed establishments that allowed underage person to play video gaming terminals.
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Establishment License
of:
P.G. Pub, Inc. d/b/a Fair Haven Lanes
and
Gregg’s Olde Town Tap Inc. d/b/a Gregg’s Olde Town Tap
for violating the Video Gaming Act and the Board’s Rules by allowing persons under 21 to play
a video gaming terminals, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed or fine of $25,000 is paid within that timeframe.
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
Licensed establishments that failed to answer or pay a Board issued fine
Venice Properties Inc. d/b/a Venice Food Mart
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the establishment license of
Venice Properties Inc. due to its failure to timely renew its State of Illinois liquor license and pay
a fine issued by the Board, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Terminal Handler misconduct
Juan Rodriguez and Edwin Sanchez
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the terminal handler licenses
of Juan Rodriguez and Edwin Sanchez, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service

4

 of the Complaint unless an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Chicago Gaming Distributors, LLC
Member Gould moved to issue a Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Terminal Operator
License of Chicago Gaming Distributors, LLC for violating the Video Gaming Act and the
Board’s Rules, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless
an Answer is properly filed within that timeframe. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:58 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Dunn seconded the motion. All
Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 