STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 13, 2013
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 9:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD July 9, 2013

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the July 9, 2013 meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. The
Board welcomed Investigator Yumnah Tayyab and Administrative Law Judge Deena Sanceda to its staff. Then
General Counsel Post noted that long serving former Administrative Law Judge Sharon Wells had recently passed
away and noted the importance of her contributions to the agency.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from July 1 through 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it.
V.

LEGISLATIVE/MEDIATION REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski reported various legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report. The Board then
discussed and questioned various aspects of both reports.
VI.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-10-130
Illinois Troopers Lodge No. 41, Fraternal Order of Police/ State of Illinois, Central Management
Services (State Police)

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post noted that on May 29, 2013
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tarver issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO). General Counsel Post
then asked Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present the case. Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that the charge alleged that the
Respondent violated Section 10(a)(1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act). She then presented and
reviewed the Charging Party’s exceptions and the Respondent’s response and recommended that the Board reverse
the ALJ’s dismissal and issue a make-whole remedy. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to reverse the
ALJ’s RDO and issue a make-whole remedy. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-13-005
Hazel Crest Professional Firefighters Association, IAFF Local 4087/ Village of Hazel Crest
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post noted that on May 15, 2013
ALJ Kehoe issued a RDO. General Counsel Post then asked Counsel Kazanjian to present the case. Counsel
Kazanjian stated that the charge alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. Counsel Kazanjian then
reviewed and discussed the issues presented in the Charging Party’s exceptions and recommended that the Board

 affirm the RDO with modifications. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept Counsel Kazanjian’s
recommendation. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-12-199
International Association of Firefighters, Local 717/ Town of Cicero
Chairman Hartnett called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO, and asked whether the
Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CB-13-027
County of Kane and Kane County Sheriffs/ Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post stated that on
March 29, 2013 an Executive Director dismissal issued with an appeal filed by Charging Party and at the Board’s
July meeting both parties presented oral arguments. General Counsel Post then discussed the charge, alleging a
violation of Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. After presenting and discussing the Charging
Party’s appeal and the oral arguments, he recommended that the Board affirm the dismissal. After detailed
discussion, Member Besson moved to remand the dismissal for further investigation. Member Washington seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-13-031
Jane Reynolds Arts/ Illinois Council of Police (ICOP)/ County of Lake and Sheriff of Lake County/
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council (IFOP)/ Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the case. General Counsel Post, with the assistance
of Counsel Kazanjian, stated that on June 20, 2013 an Executive Director’s report on objections to an election issued.
He then presented and discussed Arts’ objections, IFOP’s appeal and ICOP’s response. He recommended that the
Executive Director's dismissal of the objections be sustained. After detailed discussion, Member Brennwald moved
to accept the dismissal. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at that time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 10th day of September, 2013.

2

 