MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
AUGUST 12, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 12, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle,
Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, August 12, 2008 at 9:37 a.m. the following Board Members were present:
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and James
Sullivan.
At 9:45 a.m. on Tuesday August 12, 2008, Member Gardner called the meeting to order.
Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to
Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 11:45 p.m. The Board
went into open session at 1:10 p.m.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 15, 2008, and the Special Meeting of July 16, 2008. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 15, 2008 and the Special Meeting of July 16, 2008. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISSEMINATION OF CLOSED SESSION MINUTES (January 14, 2008 – June 24, 2008)
Member Moore moved to make available for public inspection all portions of closed session
minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board from January 14, 2008 through June 24, 2008, for

 which the need for confidentiality no longer exists. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS – no motion
The Chairman stated that the Board and staff continue to work with Credit Suisse on the 10th
license applications. He also stated that all applications are due on Friday, October 10, 2008 at
5:00 p.m. Information can be obtained on the IGB web site.
BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS – no motion
Member Moore stated that he attended the supplier diversity fair that was held at the Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Moore stated that he was quite pleased with the event and the number
of vendors in attendance. Member Moore commended Randy Roberts and staff of the Grand
Victoria, along with Tom Swoik of the Illinois Gaming Association. Member Moore also stated
that now we must see how many of those that attended will be doing business with the casino.
Member Gardner stated that he was also at the supplier diversity fair and he commented on the
Elgin area community businesses in attendance.
ADMINSITRATOR’S COMMENTS – no motion
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Item for Initial Consideration
●

Penn National Gaming – Request for approval to issue Preferred Stock
Martha Sabol addressed the Board for Initial consideration for approval to issue
Preferred Stock by Penn National Gaming.

Items for Final Action –
●

Grand Victoria Casino – Jonathan A. Grossman, Controller, - Level One

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve Jonathan A. Grossman as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the position of
Controller at the Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

IGT – License Renewal – Motion Clarification

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that IGT be
authorized and approved to manufacture, sell and/or lease electronic gaming devices and
associated equipment to licensed casinos in the State of Illinois, pursuant to the

2

 requirements of the IGB as listed in the Adopted Rules. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S –
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 57 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 117 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

John Hackett - Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against John Hackett, an occupational licensee, for taking
$32.00 worth of food from the employee break room.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke John Hackett’s occupational license.
Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Jennifer B. Collins – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board issue
a Disciplinary Complaint against Jennifer B. Collins, an occupational licensee, for taking
$100 bills from her cashier drawer on June 13, 24 and 28, 2008.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Jennifer B. Collins’ occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Kyle D. Minton - Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Kyle D. Minton, an occupational licensee, for
taking money tendered by a customer to pay for a beverage rather than completing the
transaction at his cash register, and further, for his failure to cooperate with the IGB
following the incident.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board revoke Kyle D. Minton’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ●

Rodney R. Hall – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Rodney R. Hall, due to his admitted theft of valet
parking fees from the Casino Queen.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Rodney R. Hall’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Curtis Burton – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Curtis Burton, due to his admitted theft of valet
parking fees from the Casino Queen.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Curtis Burton’s occupational license.
Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint
unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Timothy Borrowdale – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the Board
issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Timothy Borrowdale, an occupational licensee, for
conduct occurring while employed at Argosy Casino in Lawrenceburg, Indiana. In
particular, while working at a craps table, surveillance coverage depicted Timothy
Borrowdale taking a patron’s bet from the craps table.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Timothy Borrowdale’s occupational
license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Chairman Jaffe
seconded the motion. Member Moore was in favor of the motion. Member Gardner was opposed
to the motion. Member Winkler was opposed to the motion. The motion passed 3 to 2.
●

James R. Ripple – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the Board issue
a Disciplinary Complaint against James R. Ripple, an occupational licensee, for failing to
disclose a May 13, 2007 arrest and a July 17, 2007 conviction.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend James R. Ripple’s occupational
license for 10 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the
date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.

4

 Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS
●

Dawn Lovejoy

Member Sullivan moved the Board to enter a Final Board Order adopting the
recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge to revoke the occupational license of
Dawn Lovejoy. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner commented on the importance of the licensees to update their personal
information with their employers at the casinos. Member Gardner stated that the occupational
licensees need to remember the importance of updating their personal information.
ADJOURNMENT At 1:30 p.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Gardner seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 