Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Technology Committee
Tuesday, June 17, 2014

11:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 (dd), public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.
14-1411
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Cook County Bureau of Technology
Request: Refer to the Committee on Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 3/1/2014 - 5/31/2014
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated Cook
County Criminal Justice System on a quarterly basis beginning with the first quarter of the FY2014. This is the
second quarterly report of FY2014.
Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Technology Committee.

 14-1481
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY and TONI PRECKWINKLE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, technology and information resources in the various agencies and departments of Cook County are
strategic and vital assets belonging to the people of the County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government has a duty to its citizens to ensure that the information entrusted to its
agencies is safe, secure, and protected from unauthorized access, use, or destruction; and
WHEREAS, coordinated efforts are necessary to protect these assets against unauthorized access, disclosure, use,
and modification or destruction, whether accidental or deliberate, as well as to assure the confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of information; and
WHEREAS, a strong information security framework must be coordinated, promulgated and implemented
throughout county agencies and departments, including the offices of the separately Elected Officials, to ensure
the development and maintenance of minimum information security controls to protect technology and
information resources that support the operations and assets of said agencies and departments and to enable the
County’s protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article I, In General, Division 1, Cook County Information Security, Sec. 2-8 through 2-14 of the
Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE I. In General
Division 1 Cook County Information Security
Sec. 2-8. Short title.
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Security Ordinance.”
Sec. 2-9. Purpose and Policy.
All Elected Officials, Departments, Office Institutions or Agencies of Cook County (“County”), including but not
limited to the offices and departments under the jurisdiction of the County Board President, the Board of
Commissioners, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Cook County State’s Attorney, Cook County Sheriff,
Cook County Public Defender, Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County
Clerk, Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Board of Review, Cook County Public Defender, Independent Inspector General, Veteran’s Assistance
Commission and the Public Administrator (collectively, "County Agency") shall take all reasonable precautions to
protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of County information. Such precautions shall be in
accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and take into consideration industry standards
and best practices.
Page 2 of 5

 Sec. 2-10. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guideline means a recommendation to assist a County employee or County contractor in making appropriate
decisions or performing a particular task, which allows for latitude in interpretation and implementation.
Plan means a comprehensive document that details strategic direction, which may also provide additional details,
such as Standards used and so forth.
Policy means a document that communicates leadership expectations to an organization or business unit, which
may also be considered as mandatory business rules or organization-specific directives and which are
communication of management intent.
Procedure means a document stating the manner in which a Policy shall be functionally implemented in a County
Agency’s environment, which may define specific operation steps, manual methods, or instructions for
compliance with a Policy.
Standard means a document that contains a specification or describes minimum implementation that satisfies a
Policy.
Sec. 2-11. Information Security Framework.
(a) Subject to the approval of the Cook County Chief Information Officer (“CIO”), the Bureau of Technology’s
Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) shall create comprehensive and written information security Plans,
Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines for the County and County Agencies (collectively, the
“Information Security Framework”) to reasonably protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of County
information; all County Agencies shall collaborate with the CISO in the creation of the Information Security
Framework as requested.
(b) The Information Security Framework shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and
regulations and take into consideration industry standards and best practices.
(c) The Information Security Framework shall include a risk management process, which the CISO shall direct, to
identify information security risks in County Agencies and deploy risk mitigation strategies, processes, and
procedures.
(d) The Information Security Framework shall include information security incident and breach response Plans as
a subset of information security.
Sec. 2-12. Adoption and Compliance
(a) The CIO and CISO shall publish and make available the Information Security Framework to all County
Agencies; said County Agencies shall adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework.
(b) County Agencies may deviate from the Information Security Framework based on their unique requirements,
but only upon receiving prior written approval from the CIO and CISO.
(c) County Agencies shall take all appropriate actions, including completing assigned training and if warranted,
initiating disciplinary action, to ensure their employees and contractors adopt and comply with the Information
Security Framework.
Sec. 2-13. Review, Remediation and Enforcement
(a) Annually the CISO shall review and approve the proposed information security Plans of each County Agency
to determine if such Plans are in conformance with the Information Security Framework or properly deviated with
prior written approval from the CIO and CISO.
(b) Annually the CISO shall review the status of County Agency adoption and compliance with the Information
Security Framework and timely report compliance related issues to the CIO.
(c) Where a County Agency has not fully adopted or complied with the Information Security Framework, the CIO
and CISO shall direct that County Agency to take the necessary remediation steps and other measures required for
Page 3 of 5

 adoption and to bring them into compliance.
(d) The CIO and CISO shall be authorized to take all appropriate actions to ensure and enforce compliance with
the Information Security Framework.
Sec. 2-14. Reporting and Exceptions.
(a) At least once each calendar year, the CISO through the CIO shall report to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on the Information Security Framework.
(b) At a minimum, the CISO’s annual report shall detail: (i) the status of all County Agencies’ adoption and
compliance with the Information Security Framework and (ii) a summary of all requests for deviations from the
Information Security Framework that the CISO has previously approved or rejected.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History: 2/19/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Technology Committee
14-2269
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department: Bureau of Technology
Vendor: SunGard Availability Services LP, Wayne, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute.
Good(s) or Service(s): Information Security, Compliance and Incident Response Services
Contract Value: $1,364,123.00
Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2018, with two (2) two-year extension options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2014 $228,443.00; FY2015: $340,704.00; FY2016: $340,704.00;
FY2017: $340,704.00; FY2018: $113,568.00
Accounts: 769-260 Account
Contract Number(s): 1350-12461
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs
Summary: In 2013, Cook County issued an RFP for Information Security, Compliance and Incident Response
services, which resulted in the contract that BOT now seeks authorization for the CPO to execute. Procuring the
services of information security experts is a critical step to improving the County’s information security practices,
achieving compliance with applicable information security regulations and best practices, and properly handling
information security incidents.
Cook County provides services for approximately 5.3 million residents. Many of these services handle sensitive
information including social security numbers, credit card numbers, and personal health information. With the
assistance of information security consulting experts, the County can enhance its information security program by
performing nationally recognized risk assessments, enhancing the County’s information security framework,
performing additional cyber security monitoring and testing, and improving its incident response and forensic
response capabilities. In addition to the objectives identified above, other desired outcomes include the protection
personal information of County residents and the mitigation of cyber-security risks.
Legislative History: 4/9/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Technology Committee.

Page 4 of 5

 REPORT
14-3173
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Director, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Department: ERP, Enterprise Resource Planning
Request: Refer to Committee on Technology
Report Title: ERP Project Status Report
Report Period: Ongoing
Summary: The Director of ERP will provide a comprehensive update to the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on the status of all ongoing ERP projects. The status update will reflect progress being
made towards achieving the goals of selecting and implementing a Countywide Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) platform, configuring and installing a biometric-based Time & Attendance system, and upgrading and
migrating the JDEdwards HR/Payroll system to a cloud hosting environment. This is the first report of FY2014.
Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissionersreferred to the Technology Committee.

_____________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Fritchey
Gorman
Butler, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele

Page 5 of 5

 