 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Thursday, October 10, 2013 10:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Moore, Murphy, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (11)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Steele and Tobolski (6)

SECTION 1

13-1521

Sponsored by: GREGG GOSLIN, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN
and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

REQUESTS RESIGNATION OF SUBURBAN COOK COUNTY METRA DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Rail Board or METRA is tasked with running one of the largest metropolitan rail
systems in the country; and

WHEREAS, it is imperative that the METRA Board of Directors have the con?dence of the public they serve to
oversee the Chicago region?s commuter rail service; and

WHEREAS, there are a number of serious problems regarding the board?s mishandling of important issues such
as illicit in?uence and questionable contracts that undermines public con?dence in the organization; and

WHEREAS, a recent preliminary audit conducted by the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) into the Alex
Clifford separation agreement states the ?process was inadequate and not suf?ciently documented? and the
?settlement was not ?nancially prudent?; and

WHEREAS, METRA Board Directors failed to consider Employment Practices Liability insurance on any
potential litigation or settlement, which would have provided coverage if a lawsuit was ?led by Mr. Alex Clifford;
and

WHEREAS, the continued lack of proper oversight by the METRA Board of Directors has cost the taxpayers
and ridership signi?cant dollars and resources; and

WHEREAS, in a letter dated July, 2011 the six (6) county chairmen from the Chicago region committed to
replacing all present METRA Board Directors by June 30, 2012 in order to restore faith within the leadership?s
body? as a result of the scandal involving the former METRA Chief Executive Of?cer; and

WHEREAS, the public has grown suspicious and skeptical as more allegations surface making it impossible for
the remaining METRA Board Directors to continue in their positions with any public con?dence; and

WHEREAS, at least six (6) METRA Board Directors are needed for quorum to ensure that day to day METRA
operations continue unabated.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
request letters of resignation of the remaining three existing Cook County METRA Board Directors; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the three existing Cook County METRA Board Directors will continue to
serve at the pleasure of Cook County Suburban Caucus until suitable replacements are selected; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners strongly urges the remaining
METRA Board of Directors to not take any substantive action regarding the hiring of a Chief Executive Of?cer
or appointment of a Board Chairperson until all remaining METRA Board Directors have been replaced and a
new full METRA Board has been seated.

Legislative History: 09/ 1 1/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislative and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this resolution
be deferred. The motion carried.

Page 2 of 5

13-1533

Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County
Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

A PROPOSED RESOLUTION URGIN THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO CREATE
STRICTER CRITERIA FOR WHO CAN SERVE AS A METRA BOARD DIRECTOR

WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Rail Board (METRA) is responsible for overseeing a $713 million budget and
operating one of the largest metropolitan rail systems in the country; and

WHEREAS, recent scandals involving Alex Clifford?s separation agreement have rocked the METRA Board and
caused the resignation of the METRA Board Chairman and several Directors; and

WHEREAS, the METRA Board of Directors have a ?duciary duty to our taxpayers to ensure that the ?scal and
operational health of METRA is sustainable; and

WHEREAS, public con?dence in the METRA Board of Directors is at an all?time low and therefore more
accountability measures need to be instituted; and

WHEREAS, 70 ILCS 3615/ 3.01 vests authority in the suburban members of the Cook County Board and the
Cook County Board President to appoint ?ve Directors to the METRA Board; and

WHEREAS, the only criteria that 70 ILCS 3615/ 3.01 sets forth for the appointment of a Director is that they
reside in suburban Cook County; and

WHEREAS, proper management and oversight by the METRA Board demands basic requirements from an
appointed Director; and

WHEREAS, chief among these requirements should be a threshold age limit, educational level, and professional
background.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners urges the Illinois
General Assembly to codify basic requirements in order for an appointment to serve as Metra Board Director.

Legislative History: 09/ 1 1/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislative and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this resolution be

deferred. The motion carried.

Page 3 of 5

13-1791

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Appointee(s): Romayne Brown

Position: Director

Department/Board/Commission: Commuter Rail Board of the Commuter Division of the Regional
Transportation Authority (Metra Board of Directors)

Effective date: Immediate

Expiration date: Ms. Brown will ?ll the vacancy created by the resignation of Mr. Stanley Rakestraw. The term
shall expire March 31, 2016.

Romayne C. Brown delivered remarks and answered questions as to her quali?cations for and interest in the
position.

Chairman Suffredin entered into the record, a copy of Ms. Brown?s resume, remarks and Af?davit.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this appointment be

recommended for approval. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion passed
and the meeting was adjourned.

Page 4 of 5

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File ID Number: 13-1521 Recommended for Deferral
File ID Number: 13-1533 Recommended for Deferral
File ID Number: 13-1791 Recommended for Approval

Respectfully submitted,

Lama? 

Chairman

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on the Video Page at


Page 5 of 5

Romayne C. Brown
Home (708) 841-4214
Cell (773) 418-3818

Email: I?JbS?Z?gr?yalmoxom
SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS

Professional transit manager with over 31 years of operational and customer service experience in
the following areas:

0? Managed the operational, maintenance, administration and customer service functions for
the Authority?s busiest rail line. Responsibilities included monitoring rail service, labor
affairs, passenger and community relations and administrative functions, including
staf?ng requirements necessary for the ef?cient management of the rail route.

Ensures the judicious use of budget and manpower allocations. Assesses training needs
and provides initial training, remedial training and training for rail changes directives.
Monitors manpower utilization and personnel performance.

Manages the department activities, functions and personnel including the coordination of
activities of the Operations branch as well as with other user departments of the
Authority. Establishes goals and objectives, determines staf?ng needs and coordinates
manpower requirements.

Coordinates and monitors responses to grievances in compliance with labor agreements.
Assists in the establishment and revision of labor procedures, disciplinary guidelines and
policy recommendations. Confers with Authority personnel regarding operations
objectives and recommends methods and procedures for implementation. Interacts with
representatives from the labor union and the Authority?s Employee Relations department.

 

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

CHICAGO TRANSIT AUTHORITY Chicago, Illinois

Vice President, Rail Operations 02/09 02/10

Manages and oversees a $1.3 million budget. Develops and administers policies, programs and
procedures necessary to ensure the timely, clean, safe and courteous delivery of rail transit service
to 550,000 customers daily. Evaluates and monitors the performance of rail operations staff
personnel to ensure compliance with established goals and objectives. Analyzes the needs related
to passenger service, budget and manpower planning, training, program and personnel
developments and safety functions and initiatives. Develops policy, procedures for collective
bargaining negotiations as well as the betterment of management/labor relations. Maintains
effective working relationships with various labor unions, governmental entities, transportation
of?cials and CTA personnel.

CHICAGO TRANSIT AUTHORITY Chicago, Illinois

Director, Rail Operations 03/08 02/09

Developed, monitored and evaluated organizational effectiveness in order to sustain and improve
the effectiveness of rail service delivery. Participated in the planning for and execution of rail
operations facilities and infrastructure. Created and modi?ed staging plans for service sustenance
during construction, maintenance and special events. Established and maintained effective
working relationships with governmental units, community representatives, labor unions, other
transportation system of?cials and CTA personnel. Instrumental in the development of policy
concerning absence management. Attended various business and neighborhood community
meetings and public hearings related to mass transit.

Resume of Romayne C. Brown
Page 2

CHICAGO TRANSIT AUTHORITY Chicago, Illinois

General Manager, Rail Operations 04/01 03/08

Managed, planned and coordinated through subordinate supervisory personnel, the activities of
the Red/Purple/Yellow Lines, which included Administration, Transportation and Maintenance.
Administered route programs and objectives to ensure top quality rail transportation service was
rendered to the community service area. Managed and held accountable for the maintenance,
service, labor affairs and administrative activities for the Authority?s busiest rail line. Ensured
compulsory vehicle inspections and maintenance were performed in a pro?cient and timely
manner. Participated in the development and administration of Rail Operations programs,
policies, goals and objectives. Meet regularly with management personnel throughout the
Authority to ensure that programs and plans were effectively coordinated. Meet and interfaced
with various levels of management from other transit jurisdictions and representatives from
various governmental agencies, developed and fostered relationships, which served to bene?t the
route, Rail Operations and the Authority.

Other Positions Held: Administration Manager 11 (Red Line) 1997 2001
Transportation Manager, Rail Operations 1992 1997
Superintendent II, Rail Personnel 1989 1992
Superintendent Procedural Control 1988 1989
Rail Terminal Clerk 1982 1988
Rail Operations Employee 1978 1982

 

PROFESSIONAL ACHIEVEMENT

Kathy Osterman Award Recipient Recognizing Superior Pubic Service 1997

 

CERTIFICATIONS, TRAINING AND SPECIAL RECOGNITIONS

Featured Cover of Mass Transit Magazine June 2009

Presidential Employee Excellence Award 2007

Rail Operations Technology Development Project Manager

Yardmaster Negotiation Committee

Leadership and Supervisor 111

Customer Service for Managers

Train the Trainer Program - Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Alcohol and Drug Testing
Situational Leadership Training Program

Front?Line Management Program

 

EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND
City of Chicago Intergovernmental Executive Development Program 2003

Harold Washington College 1999
Chicago, Illinois
0 Chicago Transit Authority?s Transit Management Program

South Suburban College 1997
South Holland, Illinois

Commissioner Larry Suffredin

Commissioners
Ladies and Gentlemen,

I am honoured and privileged to speak with you today on the occasion of my nomination
to Metra's Board of Directors.

I should like first to sincerely thank President Preckwinkle who put her trust in me by
selecting me to perform the duties of a Metra's Board Director.

In July 1978, was hired as an entry-level rail employee for the Chicago Transit
Authority (CTA). While working at CTA I had the opportunity to train and perform in
various rail and administrative positions. Each position was a stepping stone to develop
into a transit professional. I was afforded the opportunity to work with and get to know a
great group of caring and compassionate people bound together by their zealous
commitment to CTA and its mission of providing clean, safe, courtesy and on-time
serVIce.

It was working with these dedicated individuals that prepared me to step into my final
position as the Vice President, Rail Operations. Where I was responsible for the nation's
second largest public transportation system providing rail service to the City of Chicago
and 35 surrounding suburbs. With a ridership of nearly 550,000, on an average
weekday on eight rail lines.

I believe that the experience I gained afford me the opportunity to give back to an
industry that has given me over thirty-years of transit experience. These are exciting
times for the transit industry. To be a part of a long-term plan that will allow Metra to
grow, and have a positive impact on the communities and riders make serving on the
board 

I want to be actively involved in advancing the cause of transportation. I look fonrvard to
working with my colleagues in our shared determination to establish Metra as a world-
class transit agency that we can all be proud of.

I would like to thank you very much for your confidence and for this opportunity.

Thank you,

Romayne C. Brown

    

Ha"

Cook County
Office, Board or Commission Affidavit

Please ?ll out this application completely. Incomplete af?davits will not be considered for
appointment. Please also submit your resume.

Please email the completed af?daVit to Patrick Carey, Special Assistant for Governmental and
Legislative Affairs at patrick.carey@cpokcountvil.gov and Brian Miller, Office of Commissioner
Larry Suffredin at bmiller@suffredin.org.


Which of?ce/board/commission 
. etra

are you applying for?

Last Brown First Roma ne I 

Name 

Current I

Street 15635 Cottage Grove Ave. Apartment/
Unit 

Address .

City Dolton State IL ZIP 60419-2744

E-mail
Phone 708-841?4214 rcbb926@yahoo.com

Address
How long have you lived at your current address? 25 years

Do you have multiple residences in Cook County? YES NO 

If yes, please list your other
addresses and which address
is your primary address:

APPOINTMENT INFORMATION

Have you received a Homeowner?s Property Tax Exemption at any other YES NO 
address other than your primary address during the current tax year? 
Is your primary residence located within the district of the of?ce, board, YES 

 

or commission that you are applying for?

Have you reviewed the legal requirements for the appointment that you YES 
are seeking? .

Do you ful?ll the legal requirements for the appointment that you are
seeking?

 

Do you possess any conflicts of interest that would prevent you from
adequately representing the interests of the of?ce, board or commission 2 31/
that you are applying for? - ..

Will you notify the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

and the Chairman of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations 
Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners if there is a YES NO 
change to any of the statements set forth in this instrument?

Under penalties of perjury, I state that, to the best ofmy knowledge, the information
contained in this application is true, correct and complete.

Applicant?s Name: Q, ,2
Applicant?s Signature: 7%??wa 6% g?

D. waif/mg 

 

 

  
   

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Subscribed and sworn before me this ?3+4 day of (Xvi?Notary Signature: We? [LL?4mm Moe, 
- OFFICIAL SEAL any
ANN Fame-ass SCHAFF. 1
NOTARY PUBLIC. STATE DF moss .4.
545-2014 if?
.9 

 

 

?F?rrw Notary Stamp 1

