STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 12, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board;
Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
and staff members. John F. Brosnan acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 8, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the July 8, 2008 meeting. Member Coli moved to
approve the minutes. Member Piper seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from July 1 through July 31, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and summarized
its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-CA-05-085
1.
Downers Grove Professional Firefighters Association, Local 3234, International Association of
Fire Fighters/Village of Downers Grove

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its procedural background. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) with the very minor
addition to the proposed remedy that Respondent rescind any changes in promotional criteria for the rank of
Battalion Chief instituted on or about November 1, 2004, or thereafter. After discussion, Member Hade
moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-06-015
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 441/Town of Cicero
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Kazanjian's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-UC-06-064
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Maryville
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Harvey's recommendation. After a discussion of the
merits, Member Piper moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-RC-08-026
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Waechter's
recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member
Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case Nos. S-UC-08-396 and S-AC-08-002
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Chief Judge of
the 7th Judicial Circuit (Macoupin County)
Chairman Gallagher called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-UC-(S)-08-166
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Washington Park
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Waechter's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding legislative matters, and reminded that at
the end of the month, Fiscal Officer Hildebrand will be emailing the FY-08 year-end fiscal reports to the
Board for review and discussion at the September 9, 2008 meeting. After a short discussion, the Board
questioned whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of September, 2008.

2

 