July 12th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:03 PM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “7/12/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Andre Youngblood, Johnny Miller. (Kevin Irvine absent).
PUBLIC COMMENT: Cecelia Butler

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
14th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with five yes votes

EXECUTIVE SESSION: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess into executive session, base
Illinois Open Meetings Act Sections 2 C- 2 and 5. After being moved and seconded, the m
approved with five yes votes.

After returning to Open Session, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Item 4ordinance authorizing relocation expenses for the acquisition of property located at 3242 North W
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.

ChairmanPetersonthen askedfor a motionto approveBoard AgendaItem 4-B, an ordinance
authorizing the acquisition of a permanent air rights easement over real property located at 1042
Roscoe Street, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved a
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee Vice-Chairman J
Miller presented the report. The committee approved the March, 2017 committee minutes. Mr. Mil
also stated that all committee agenda items, listed on the Board agenda, had been presented, rev
discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Miller conclu
report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Silva presented the report.
th
committee reviewed the monthly report on Finance and approved
the June
14
, 2017
committee
meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on t
agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended f
approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Miller and Sil
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved July 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com
, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-59 through 017-70.
1

 CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Rep
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”, July
th
12 , 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2017
the Chicago
July 12
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 