 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Rules and Administration Committee

10:00 AM
Wednesday, December 13, 2017 Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Morrison and Sims (6)
Absent: Gainer, Schneider and Silvestri (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen

18-1026
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1 1/15/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to approve
18-1026. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison and Sims (7)

Absent: Schneider and Silvestri (2)

18-1101
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 11/14/2017.

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to recommend
Page 1 of 5

for approval 18-1101. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, ritchey, Gainer, Morrison and Sims (7)

Absent: Schneider and Silvestri (2)

18-1012
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 11/15/2017.

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to recommend
for approval 18-1012. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison and Sims (7)

Absent: Schneider and Silvestri (2)

17-6195

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

An Amendment to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-105(i) and
05(1) of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.

mm

Public testimony. The Board encourages public participation in the legislative process. To
preserve order and decorum and in the interest of ef?ciency, the presiding of?cer may impose
time and subiect matter limits on public comment or testimony. The following rules shall
apply at any meeting of the Board and its committees at which public comment or testimony
is taken:

 

Page 2 of 5

(1) Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have
submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the
Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called
upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be
germane to a speci?c item or items ?59 on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for

public testimony has expired. 

.1. an.

    

 

(2) Disruptions of meetings are prohibited. Disruptions include, but are not limited to:

a. Speech by an individual after expiration of the time allotted for the speaker's public
comment or testimony;

b. Speech by an individual that is not germane to a specific item or items on the meeting
agenda;

c. Speech by an individual who has not been recognized by the presiding of?cer for public
comment or testimony, who is speaking in a volume louder than a low, conversational level
appropriate for communication between persons seated next to each other in the chamber, or
whose speech is audible by others; or

d. Holding or placing a banner or sign during a meeting in a way that may endanger other
individuals or that obstructs the free passage or view of others attending or viewing the
meeting.

Verbal comments must be conducted in respectful Speech with no personal attacks.

(3) If an individual engages in disruption of the meeting, including but not limited to any of
the actions described above, the presiding of?cer may rule the individual out of order, direct
the individual to cease the activity and impose other reasonable conditions for the individual's
continued _presence at the meeting. If the individual does not immediately comply with the
presiding of?cer?s order, the presiding officer may direct the removal of the individual from
the meeting. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding of?cer, any individual ordered to be
removed from a meeting is excluded from returning to that meeting, unless the decision of the
presiding of?cer is overruled by a maiority vote of those members in attendance. Any two
members may place before the body the question of whether to permit the individual to return
to the same meeting.

(4) If an individual is removed either from two or more committee meetings within a fifteen
day period or from two or more consecutive meetings of the Board, the Board President may

Page 3 of 5

exclude the individual from participation in public comment or testimony periods at future
Board or committee meetings.

a. The Board President shall notify the individual in writing of the type of exclusion, the
speci?c reasons for the exclusion and the specific terms and length of the exclusion.

b. The notice of exclusion shall advise that the individual may submit written comments to
the Clerk for distribution to the Board members at future public comment or testimony

periods.

0. The notice of exclusion shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall post it on the door to the
Board chambers and on the Board?s web page, provide a copy of the notice to Board
members and mail the notice to the individual's last known address, if any. The notice is
effective when posted. The exclusion order shall remain posted on the door to the
chambers for the duration of the exclusion period.

(5) In determining the sc0pe and length of an individual's exclusion allowed under subsection
of this section 2-105, the Board President may consider the seriousness of the disruptions
to the orderly conduct of the meeting, the number of disruptions in which the individual
participated and other reasons deemed relevant by the President.

a. The Board President may issue an exclusion from future participation in public comment or
testimony periods for up to twenty-eight calendar days.

b. At the next regular meeting of the Board, following the filing and posting_of the exclusion
notice, the exclusion order may be overruled or modified by a maiority vote of those
Commissioners in attendance. Any two members may place before the body the question
of whether to overrule or modify the exclusion decision.

(6) Any individual excluded from participation in future public comment or testimony
periods may appeal the exclusion by submitting a written appeal to the Clerk within five
calendar days after the exclusion notice is posted. The Clerk shall distribute copies of the
appeal to all Board members. The Board shall consider the appeal at the next regularly
scheduled Board meeting if any two members place it before the body. The individual's
exclusion from public comment or testimony periods shall remain in effect during the

Board?s consideration of the appeal.
a: a: 

(l)Decorum.

(1)The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of order in
preference to other Commissioners, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.

(2)1n case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct the presiding officer shall have the
power to require the chamber to be cleared. If the disturbance is of a type described in

Page 4 of 5

subsection 1 i 1,

above, the provisions of that subsection shall apply.



Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to recommend
for approval 17-6195. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison and Sims (7)
Absent: Schneider and Silvestri (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Daley, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison and Sims (7)
Absent: Schneider and Silvestri (2)

Respectfully submitted,

25. 22L
?1 94M 

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 5 of5

