STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on May 19, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.— via video conference at 160 North LaSalle Street, N703,
Chicago, IL and Capitol City Training Center, 130 Mason Street, Room 104, Springfield, IL

II.

PRESENT

Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of
the State Panel; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna HamburgGal, Associate General Counsel; and staff were present in Chicago. John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Keith
Snyder, Member of the State Panel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; and staff members were present in
Springfield. Chairman Hartnett welcomed Kathryn Zeledon Nelson as the Board’s new General Counsel.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL 14, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the April 14, 2015, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized the highlights. The Board examined the report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-14-047
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/Illinois State Toll Highway Authority

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the case. General Counsel Nelson stated that
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Deena Sanceda issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) determining
that the positions of Maintenance Section Manager (MSM) and Maintenance Section Supervisor (MSS) are
supervisors within the meaning of Section 3(r) and that there was insufficient information in the record to find that
the positions of Sign Shop Manager, Sign Shop Supervisor, Road Electric Manager, Central Garage Manager, and
Central Garage Supervisor (other positions) were supervisors within the meaning of Section 3(r). After her
presentation, General Counsel Nelson offered several alternative options for the Board to consider. After discussion,
Member Samolis moved to accept the portion of the RDO that finds MSMs and MSSs are supervisors and remand
the case to the ALJ regarding the other positions. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RD-15-005
Terry Embrich/ St. Clair County Public Building Commission/Laborers International Union of North
America, Local 459
General Counsel Nelson called the case, noted that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Sarah R. Kerley’s RDO and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-14-156
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/County of Macoupin
(Public Health Department)
General Counsel Nelson called the case. She then asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present
the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on March 31, 2015, the Executive
Director dismissed a charge that alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. She then
discussed the Charging Party’s appeal and the Respondent’s response. After her presentation, she recommended that
the Board affirm the dismissal in part and remand for further investigation in part. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal in its entirety. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-15-077
Zaundrareka Trigleth-Anderson/Cook County Circuit Clerk
General Counsel Nelson called the case. She then asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present
the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on February 23, 2015, the Executive
Director dismissed a charge that alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Act. She then discussed the
Charging Party’s appeal. After her presentation, she recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s
dismissal. After discussion, Member Coli moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago and Springfield, Illinois, this 9th day of June, 2015.

2

 