Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee Minutes
Wednesday, March 23, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
1. George Blakemore, concerned citizens
16-2268
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/2/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Committee
Minutes be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)
SPECIAL USE

16-2053
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU 15-11
Township: Orland
County District: 17
Property Address: 17101 South Wolf Road, Orland Park, Illinois

 Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 5.9 acres and generally located on the
southeast corner of Wolf Road and 171st Street, in Section 29, in unincorporated Orland Township.
Owner: Avmedoski Brothers, LLC, 8673 Sunshine Lane, Oak Park, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: Gregory Dose Esq. of the Goldstine, Skrodzki, Russian, Nemec and Hoff, Ltd.,835
McClintock Drive, Burr Ridge, Illinois.
Current Zoning: C-4 General Commercial District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a Special Use for the operation of a school bus service and maintenance facility
in unincorporated Orland Township.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is of Approval with Conditions.
Conditions:
1. Limit the proposed use at the existing building at the current size.
2. Limit the repair work to Monday through Friday from 7:00 AM to 5:30 PM.
3. The service work within the facility shall be limited to minor maintenance, such as fluid changes, tire
changes, tune-ups, and replacement of lights, batteries, belts and windshield wipers; and no body work,
painting, brake testing, or engine rebuilding shall be performed within the facility. No heavy mechanical
work.
4. No outside contractors, only employees are to be used on site for repair work.
5. Only school buses and passenger vehicles be parked on the Subject Property. No tractor trailers are to be
parked on the Subject Property.
6. No more than two 2500 lbs. tanks are to be used for storage on the Subject Property.
7. On-site fuel tanks shall be installed above Flood Protection Elevation in accordance with the County
Floodplains Ordinance Sec. 106-9(1)a. It states that no installation in a flood zone that contains
flammable liquids or other hazardous materials can be below the “flood protection elevation (FPE).” In
Sec. 106-2 of the Floodplains Ordinance, “Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)” is defined as “the
elevation of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood plus two feet of freeboard….” Hence, the
provision would address concern that fuel containers be situated well above flood level so their contents
will not be released into flood waters and damage other property.
Objectors: On Tuesday, 2/16/2016, the Zoning Board of Appeals received a Resolution from the Village of
Orland Park, objecting to the proposed Special Use Application.
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
1/20/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/2/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that this Zoning
Board of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following
vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

Page 2 of 21

 16-2131
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU 15-09
Township: Hyde Park Township (Defunct Township)
County District: 5
Property Address: 1258 E. 138th Street, Chicago, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 85.9 acres, located on the Northeast
corner of 138th Street and Cottage Grove Avenue.
Owner: Land & Lakes Company / Marina Developments, Inc. MCM Land Co., 6400 Shafer Court, Suite 325,
Rosemont, Illinois.
Agent/Attorney: James Vasselli, Del Galdo Law Group, LLC., 1441 South Harlem Avenue, Berwyn, Illinois.
Current Zoning: R-1 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant, Deborah Sims, Cook County Commissioner District #5, seeks a Special Use, as
requested, in an I-3 Intensive Industrial District (if granted under Companion MA 15-03) to allow for the
continued operation of a Municipal Solid Waste transfer station and Material Recycling and recovery Facility.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is Recommendation of Approval.
Conditions: None
Objectors:

None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
12/16/2015
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 03/02/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)
VARIATIONS

16-1897
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-05
Page 3 of 21

 Township: Palos
County District: #17
Property Address: 12825 S. Newport Drive, Palos Park, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.24 acres located on the east side of
Newport Drive and approximately 765’ south of Park View Drive.
Owner: John S. Woods IV, 12825 S. Newport Drive, Palos Park, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 10 feet to a proposed 4 feet. This variance is sought in order to expand an existing shed.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/17/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 2/17/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

16-1918
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-06
Township: Stickney
County District: #11
Property Address: 7027 West 71st Street, Chicago, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.057 acres located on the south side of
71st Street and approximately 277.89 feet west of Sayre Avenue.
Owner: Efren & Joanne Castrejon, 7027 West 71st Street, Chicago, Illinois
Page 4 of 21

 Agent/Attorney: Anna Lukaszczyk, 8642 S. Menard Avenue, Burbank, Illinois
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to: (1) reduce the left interior side yard setbacks from the minimum
required 10 feet to an existing 2.92 feet, (2) reduce the right interior side yard setbacks from the minimum
required 10 feet to an existing 2.76 feet and (3) increase the floor area ratio (FAR) from the maximum allowed
0.40 to a proposed 0.80. This variance is sought in order to construct a residential addition to a pre-existing
single-family residential dwelling with a detached accessory garage.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/17/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 2/17/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

16-2046
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-07
Township: Leyden
County District: 16
Property Address: 10112 West Medill, Melrose Park, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.13 acres located on the north side of
Medill Avenue and approximately 394 feet east of Dora Street.
Owner: Marcin Czech, 3619 N. Linder Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to: (1) reduce the lot area from the minimum required 10,000 square
feet to an existing 5,701.7 square feet, (2) reduce the lot width from the minimum required 60 feet to an existing
45 feet, (3) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum feet required 10 feet to a proposed 4
Page 5 of 21

 feet, (4) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum required 10 feet to a proposed 4 feet, and
(5) reduce the front yard setback from the minimum required 25.3 feet to a proposed 20 feet. This variance is
sought in order bring existing lot conditions into compliance and construct a single family residence with an
attached garage.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
3/2/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/2/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

16-2049
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-08
Township: Northfield
County District: 14
Property Address: 916 Glenwood Lane, Glenview, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.36 acres located on the southwest
corner of Glenwood Lane and Glenview Road.
Owner: Vijay Patel, 916 Glenwood Lane, Glenview, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of two pillars located in the front yard from the
maximum required 3 feet to an existing 4.5 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
Page 6 of 21

 History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
3/2/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/2/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

MAP APPLICATION
15-5730
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Map Amendment MA 15-03
Township:

Hyde Park Township (Defunct Township)

County District: 5
Property Address: 1258 E. 138th Street, Chicago, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 85.9 acres, located on the Northeast
corner of 138th Street and Cottage Grove Avenue.
Owner: Land & Lakes Company/Marina Developments, Inc., / Marina Developments, Inc./ MCM Land Co.,
6400 Shafer Court, Suite 325, Rosemont, Illinois.
Agent/Attorney:
Matthew G. Holmes of the law firm Storino, Ramello & Durkin, 9501 W. Devon Avenue,
Suite 800, Rosemont, Illinois, James Vasselli, Del Galdo Law Group, LLC., 1441 South Harlem Avenue,
Berwyn, Illinois
Current Zoning: R-1 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant, Deborah Sims, Cook County Commissioner District #5, seeks a Map Amendment to
rezone the Subject Property from R-1 Single Family Residence District to I-3 Intensive Industrial District after
being disconnected from the City of Chicago in Hyde Park Township (Defunct Township).
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is of Approval.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
03/02/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 03/02/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
Page 7 of 21

 Legislative History: 10/28/15 Zoning and Building Committee recommended to refer
Legislative History: 10/28/15 Board of Commissioners Committee referred to the Zoning and Building
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

*******************************************
16-1664
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, LUIS ARROYO JR, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner JERRY BUTLER, SEAN M. MORRISON, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE and JOHN P. DALEY,
County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CREATION OF CRANE OPERATORS LICENSE and BOARD OF CRANE OPERATOR
EXAMINERS
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the licensing of crane operators is a matter of public safety pertaining to the government and affairs
of the County; and
WHEREAS, a Cook County Board of Crane Operator Examiners will protect the public health, general welfare
and safety of Cook County citizens; and,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively protect the public health, general welfare
and safety of its citizens the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Crane Operators License
for work performed on construction projects in Cook County; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Board of Commissioners establishes a Board of Crane
Operator Examiners to establish license and permit requirements for individuals operating cranes in the County
of Cook; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Article 3, Chapter 102 of
the Building and Buildings Regulation of the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 151-1 Crane Operation in Cook County.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any crane, as defined in this section, on any construction,
rehabilitation, repair or demolition project undertaken where a permit for such work is required by this Code,
without first having obtained a crane operator’s license. It shall be unlawful to employ any person or to permit
Page 8 of 21

 or direct any person on such a project to operate a crane as defined in this chapter unless such person holds a
valid crane operator’s license.
Sec. 151-2 Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following means
ascribed to them in this article, except were the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Apprentice crane operator means an individual registered in an [apprenticeship and training program
approved by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship] and training to operate a crane under
thedirect supervision and responsible control of a crane operator properly licensed under this article.
Approved accredited certifying entity means any organization whose certification program for crane
operators is accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or its equivalent, and that
meets other criteria as may be established by the Building Commissioner. Equivalency to the NCCA
certification program shall be determined by the Building Commissioner.
Board of Crane Operators Examiners or Board means the Board of Crane Operators examiners established
pursuant to Section 152 of the Building Code.

Building Commissioner means the head of the Building Department, as set forth in Section 102-105 of
the Building Code, or the Building Commissioner’s designee. Such designee may include, but is not limited to,
the Chief Construction Equipment Inspector.
Chief Construction Equipment Inspector means the person appointed by the Building Commissioner under
Section 102-105 (1.5) of the Building Code.
Construction equipment inspector means a person designated by the Building Commissioner to enforce
the provisions of this article. A construction equipment inspector shall have the authority to enter any jobsite to
inspect or review jobsite conditions and to stop work when appropriate to ensure that cranes are operate,
maintained, assembled, disassembled, or jumped in a manner necessary or appropriate to protect public safety
and consistent with the permit application required under Section 151 of the Building Code.
Cook County or County means the County of Cook, Illinois.
Crane means any power-operated mechanical hoisting equipment with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of
one ton (2000 pounds) or more that lifts, lowers, rotates or moves a load horizontally or vertically. Such
equipment includes, but is not limited to: (1) Articulating cranes, including knuckle-boom cranes used to deliver
material on to a structure with or without a properly functioning automatic overload prevention device; (2)
crawler cranes; (3) floating cranes; (4) cranes on barges; (5) locomotive cranes; (6) mobile cranes, such as
wheel-mounted, rough-terrain, all-terrain, commercial truck-mounted, and boom truck cranes; (7) multi-purpose
machines when configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended
load; (8) industrial cranes (such as carry deck cranes); (9) service/mechanic trucks with a hoisting device; (10)
cranes on monorails; (11) tower cranes (such as a fixed jib, i.e. “hammerhead boom”), luffing boom and
self-erecting; (12) pedestal cranes; (13) portal cranes; (14) overhead and gantry cranes; (15) derricks; (16)
powered window washing units if used to erect portions of a building; (17) track backhoes if used to erect
portions of a structure; (18) rack and pinion/skips; (19) Chicago booms; (20) hydraulic crawler/hydraulic truck
cranes (lattice booms); (21) drumhoists; (22) variations of the equipment listed in items (1) through (21) of this
definition; and (23) any other equipment that the Building Commissioner, in consultation with the Board,
reasonably determines is appropriately characterized as a crane as set forth in rules and regulations duly
promulgated by the Building Commissioner. The term “crane” does not include (i) dedicated pile drivers; (ii)
straddle cranes; (iii) sideboom cranes; (iv) elevators; (v) powered window washing units unless the unit is used
to erect portions of a building; (vi) skid steers; (vii) all-terrain forklifts unless the forklift is configured to hoise
Page 9 of 21

 and lower (by means of a winch or hood) and horizontally move a suspended load; (viii) mast-climbing work
platforms, but is hall include booms attached to mast-climbing work platforms if the boom has a manufacturer’s
rated capacity of one ton (2000 pounds) or more; (ix) any equipment listed in subsection (c) of 29 CFR
1926.1400 unless such equipment is listed in items (1) through (23), inclusive, of this definition; (x) variations of
the equipment set forth in items (i) through (ix) of this definition; and (xi) any other equipment that the Building
Commissioner, in consultation with the board, reasonably determines is not appropriately characterized as a crane
as set forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the Building Commissioner.
Department means the Building Department of the County of Cook.
Licensee means any person licensed or required to be licensed under this article.
Practical examination means an examination testing the skills of an applicant for a license under this
article in connection with the physical operation of the specific equipment for which a license is required under
this chapter.
Safety issue(s) means unsafe equipment and/or unsafe working conditions.
Unsafe working conditions means (1) physical or other conflicts between more than one crane on a
jobsite; (2) hoisting or swinging a load over an occupied building or over any walkway, traffic lane or parking
lane that is open for use by pedestrians or vehicular traffic; (3) any safety or operational aid used or required to
be used in connection with the operation of a crane that is not working properly; or (4) any other working
condition that the Building Commissioner determines jeopardizes or threatens to jeopardize the health, safety or
welfare of any crane operator or the general public, as set forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the
Building Commissioner.
Written examination means an examination administered in a paper or computer-based format, testing
the knowledge of an applicant for a license under this chapter in connection with the substantive requirements or
applicable codes, operating procedures, and other similar knowledge related to the operation of a crane(s).
Sec. 151-3 Application - Qualification for examination.
(a) An applicant for a crane operator’s license shall file an application with the Building Commissioner on
a form provided by the Building Commissioner and in accordance with reasonable requirement
determined by the Building Commissioner.
(b) To qualify to take the operator’s license examination, the applicant must provide evidence on a form
acceptable to the Building Commissioner that:
(1) The applicant is at least 21 years old;
(2) The applicant has worked as a crane operator for at least 2,000 hours during the preceding
48-month period or that the applicant has completed an apprenticeship program that is
recognized by the board of crane operators examiners;
(3) The applicant has not had a crane operator’s or comparable license suspended or revoked by
the County or any other jurisdiction; provided, however, that upon good cause shown and
after a full investigation, the Building Commissioner may waive this prohibition;
(4) The applicant has no history of substance abuse during the preceding three years or that the
applicant has successfully completed a certified substance abuse rehabilitation program;
(5) The applicant has the present physical ability to safely operate a crane; and
Page 10 of 21

 (6) The applicant has the ability to read, write, and speak English at a level that allows effective
communication on the job site.
All applicants meeting these qualifications shall be allowed to take the crane operator’s license examination
upon payment of the required fee.
(c) In addition to the requirements in subsection (b) of this section, to qualify to take the crane operator’s
license examination after November 9, 2017 or the date applicable to paragraphs (a)(2) and (f) of 29
CFR 1926.147 as set forth in 29 CFR 1926.1427(k)(1), whichever comes later, the applicant shall have a
current and valid certification issued by an approved accredited certifying entity identifying the type(s)
of crane that the applicant is certified to operate.
(d) All applicants meeting the qualifications in this section shall be allowed to take the crane operator’s
license examination upon payment of the required fee.
Sec. 151- 4 Examinations - Administration, regulation, and enforcement.
The Building Commissioner is authorized to adopt reasonable rules and regulations necessary or appropriate
to implement the requirements of this chapter, including but not limited to, the time, manner and content of the
crane operator’s examination. Such rules and regulations shall:
(i) enable the Department to fully assess the competency and fitness of each applicant to operate the
type of crane for which a license under this chapter is being sought
(ii) require the applicant to show or demonstrate an acceptable degree of knowledge of crane operation
and related safety practices. Except as otherwise provided in Section 151-5 the Building
Commissioner shall establish specific examinations for the various types of cranes covered by
this chapter. The board shall assist the Building Commissioner in the administration,
regulation, and enforcement of the examination and licensing provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 151-5 Examination - Exemptions and Waivers.
The Building Commissioner, in consultation with the Board, may promulgate rules and regulations
waiving or otherwise exemption the applicants for a license under this chapter from such portions of any
examination required under this chapter based on criteria, set forth in such rules and regulations, that the Building
Commissioner determines are consistent with public safety.
Sec. 151-6 License - Issuance.
An applicant who successfully passes the crane operator’s examination or is granted a waiver of the
examination pursuant to Section 151-5 and who otherwise meets the requirement of this chapter, shall be issued a
license by the Building Commissioner upon payment of the required fees.
Sec. 151-7 License - Classification.
The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations creating various classes of the
license required by this chapter, reflecting the different levels of competency of a crane operator.
Sec. 151-8 License - Term - Renewals - Reinstatement Fee.
The crane operator’s license shall be valid for not less than one and not more than five years for the date
of issuance. The license may be renewed (1) upon payment of the renewal fee prior to or within three months of
expiration of a valid operator’s license; and (2) after the date set forth in Section 151-3 of the Building Code
upon proof that the applicant has a current and valid certification issue cy an approved accredited certifying
entity identifying the types(s) of crane that the applicant is certified to operate; provided, however, that this item
(2) shall not apply if no national certification exists for specific machines the operation of which requires a
Page 11 of 21

 license under this chapter. Expired licenses may be reinstated within three years of expiration upon payment of
a $100.00 reinstatement fee in addition to the renewal fee for each year in which the license was expired.
Sec. 151-9 Examination and license fees.
(a) Examination fees - General. The fee for any crane operator’s examination administered by the
Department or through an entity authorized by the Department shall be $150.00 for any required written
examination and $250.00 for any required practical examination. Applicants seeking to be examined for
more than one license classification shall pay such fee for each additional required written or practical
examination.
(b) License fee. The fee for a crane operator’s license shall be $100.00 for a one-year license and $300.00
for a license in effect for five years.
(c) Upgrading license classifications. In addition to any examination fee required under subsection (a) of
this section, an administrative processing fee of $50.00 shall be assessed if the licensee seeks to obtain
an amended license identifying additional type(s) of cranes the licensee is competent to operate.
Sec. 151-10 Apprentice crane operators - Permit required.
An apprentice crane operator’s permit may be issued to an individual by the Building Commissioner
authorizing the apprentice crane operator under the direct supervision and responsible control of a crane operator
properly licensed under this chapter. Applicants for such apprentice permit shall submit to the Department
a
notarized statement from an employer of licensed crane operators under whom the apprentice will be working, or
from an officer of a training program approved by the Building Commissioner. Such statements shall contain a
certification that the applicant will receive training under the direct supervision and responsible control
of
a
licensed crane operator. The fee for an apprentice permit shall be $50.00. The apprentice permit shall be valid
for one year and may be renewed at a cost of $50.00.
Sec. 151- 11

Carrying license or permit while operating crane - Required.

At all times while operating a crane, the licensee or apprentice shall carry his or her license or apprentice
permit, as applicable, on his or her person. Failure to produce a crane operator’s license or apprentice permit
upon request of the Building Commissioner or his representative while operating a crane shall be punishable by
a fine of $200.00.
Sec. 151-12 Permit to assemble or jump cranes - When required - Unlawful acts.
(a) Prior to assembling or jumping a tower crane or derrick-type equipment, a permit authorizing such
activity shall be obtained from the Building Department by the owner or lessee of the building or
premises on which such activity will occur or by such owner’s or lessee’s authorized agent. Such
owner, lessee and agent shall be jointly and severally liable for any violation of this section. The
application for such permit shall be in a form, and accompanied by information or materials,
reasonably required by the Building Commissioner.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble or jump any crane for which a permit is required
under subsection (a) of this section unless a valid permit authorizing such activity has been obtained
and is available for immediate inspection on the site of such activity.
(c) No modification to any crane, derrick, foundation, tie-in, or configuration shall be made without the
prior written approval of the Building Department.
Sec. 151-13 Notification of accident or safety issue - Required.
Page 12 of 21

 It shall be the duty of each crane operator or person employing such crane operator to immediately
report to the Building Department any and all accidents or safety issue(s) regarding the operation, assembly,
disassembly, or jumping of a crane.
Sec. 151-14 Safe equipment - Required.
(a) All crane equipment shall be kept in safe working condition at all times by the owner and licensee.
(b) If any safety device or operational aid used or required to be used in connection with the operation of a
crane is not working properly, the person operating such crane shall immediately shut down the crane
until the required safety device or operational aid is repaired or replaced and the crane is restored to
proper working order.
(c) The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations to protect the public safety in
connection with the operation, maintenance, assembly, disassembly, or jumping of cranes. Such
regulations may include any structural, communication, reporting or other requirements deemed by the
Building Commissioner to be necessary or appropriate to securing the safety of the crane operator or the
general public.
Sec. 151-15 Failure to comply with rules and regulations - Unlawful act.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any applicable rule or regulation duly promulgated by the
Building Commissioner under this chapter.
Sec. 151-16 License - Revocation, suspension, and nonrenewal.
The Building Commissioner may revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew the license of any crane operator or
the permit of any apprentice who is found to be grossly negligent or incompetent in the operation of a crane or
whose actions show continuous carelessness or willful disregard for the health and safety of the public or others
while operating or assisting the operation of a crane or who misrepresents a material fact in apply for a license or
apprentice permit under this chapter. No such license or apprentice permit shall be revoked or suspended or not
renewed except after a public hearing by the board of crane operators examiners upon written notice to the
licensee or apprentice, as applicable, an after affording the licensee or apprentice an opportunity to appear and
defend. Provided, however, that if the Building Commissioner has good cause to believe that the continued
operation of a crane by a particular licensee or apprentice shall immediately threaten public safety, the Building
Commissioner may, upon issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or
hearing, prohibit the licensee or apprentice from operating or assisting in the operation of a crane for a period of
time not to exceed ten calendar days; provide, however that the licensee or apprentice shall be afforded an
opportunity to be heard during such period.
Sec. 151-17 Violation - Penalty.
(a) Any person who operates a crane without meeting the requirements of this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than
$10,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(b) Any person who employs an unlicensed person as a crane operator or who permits or directs an
unlicensed person to operate a crane shall be subject to a fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than
$30,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
Sec. 152-1. Establishing a Board of Crane Operator Examiners
Page 13 of 21

 For the purpose of the examination and licensing of crane operators performing work in the County, the
Board of Commissioners of the County establishes the Board of Crane Operator Examiners consisting of three
members. The Building Commissioner, or his designee, shall be ex officio chairman of the board. The other
two members shall consist of experienced crane operators, appointed by the Building Commissioner for a term
ending February 28 of each year, or until their successors are appointed and qualified. Three members of the
board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business and the concurrence of at least two members
shall be required to pass any matter.
Sec. 152-2 Mission and Policy
It is the mission and policy of the Board of Crane Operator Examiners to optimize the safety for all
people and communities of Cook County by preparing examinations, issuing licenses and permits, and
establishing rules governing the issuance, suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses and permits, for
crane operators in the County.
Sec. 152-3. Jurisdiction
The Board of Crane Examiners shall have jurisdiction throughout the County of Cook except within any
municipality which has an ordinance governing crane operators. In such case, the municipal ordinance shall
prevail within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
Sec. 152-4. Powers and Duties
The Board of Crane Operators Examiners shall have the following powers and duties in the licensing and
regulation of crane operators and apprentice crane operators under the provisions of this Code:(a)Preparing forms
for license certificates and issuing the same in conformity with the provisions of
Section 151 of the Building Code.
(b) Preparing or causing to be prepared subject matter for examinations, as provided in this Code;
(c) Grading or causing to be graded all tests and examinations for licenses;
(d) Prescribing standards for what shall constitute a recognized college, university or trade school,
apprentice training program or other knowledge, experience or training requirements and determining
the conformance to such standards;
(e) Holding regular meetings at any time fixed by rule or resolution of the board; and holding special
meetings for any stated purposes on at least 24-hour notice to each member. The chairman or two
members of such board may call such special meetings;
(f) Establishing rules to conduct hearings for suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses
consistent with requirements of due process of law;
(g) Holding hearings for the suspension, revocation or reinstatement of licenses; Section 151 of the
Building Code.
(h) Keeping a record of the official proceedings of the board; preserving all documents, books and papers
relating to examinations for licenses and hearings of complaints or charges; keeping a record of the
names, ages, place of business and residences of all applicants for licenses and the disposition made of
the applications, the number issued and rejected; keeping an up-to-date record specifying names and
addresses of crane operators licensed by the County, including the dates of issuance of all such licenses,
keeping a record specifying names, addresses, and dates of licenses suspended, revoked or forfeited, the
cause therefor, and licenses renewed and reinstated.
Page 14 of 21

 Sec. 152-5. Display of licenses
The Building Department shall require all appropriate licenses to be exhibited for examination by inspectors
or employees of the Department. The Building Department shall report to the Board of Crane Operators
Examiners the names and addresses, if known, and the locations of employment of all persons and the names and
address of the contractor who employed any person engaged in the operation of a crane who are not properly
licensed for the current year or who are not performing their duties in accordance with the provisions of
this
Code. The Building Department, upon request of the Board of Crane Operators Examiners, shall also investigate
complaints of violation of this Code received by the Board and submit a report of the investigation with
recommendations for disposition of the complaint to the Board.
The Board of Crane Operators Examiners shall have the following powers and duties in the licensing and
regulation of crane operators and apprentice crane operators under the provisions of this Code:
(a) Preparing forms for license certificates and issuing the same in conformity with the provisions of
Section 151 of the Building Code.
(b) Preparing or causing to be prepared subject matter for examinations, as provided in this Code;
(c) Grading or causing to be graded all tests and examinations for licenses;
(d) Prescribing standards for what shall constitute a recognized college, university or trade school,
apprentice training program or other knowledge, experience or training requirements and determining
the conformance to such standards;
(e) Holding regular meetings at any time fixed by rule or resolution of the board; and holding special
meetings for any stated purposes on at least 24-hour notice to each member. The chairman or two
members of such board may call such special meetings;
(f) Establishing rules to conduct hearings for suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses
consistent with requirements of due process of law;
(g) Holding hearings for the suspension, revocation or reinstatement of licenses; Section 151 of the
Building Code.
(h) Keeping a record of the official proceedings of the board; preserving all documents, books and papers
relating to examinations for licenses and hearings of complaints or charges; keeping a record of the
names, ages, place of business and residences of all applicants for licenses and the disposition made of
the applications, the number issued and rejected; keeping an up-to-date record specifying names and
addresses of crane operators licensed by the County, including the dates of issuance of all such licenses,
keeping a record specifying names, addresses, and dates of licenses suspended, revoked or forfeited, the
cause therefor, and licenses renewed and reinstated.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect 90 days after passages.
Legislative History: 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Zoning and Building Committee
Legislative History: 3/2/16 Zoning and Building Committee recommended for deferral
Legislative History: 3/2/16 Board of Commissioners deferred
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Page 15 of 21

 Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE 16-1664
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, LUIS ARROYO JR, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner JERRY BUTLER, SEAN M. MORRISON, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE and JOHN P. DALEY
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CREATION OF CRANE OPERATORS REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the registration of crane operators is a matter of public safety pertaining to the government and affairs
of the County; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively protect the public health, general welfare and
safety of its citizens the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Crane Operators Registration
requirement for work performed on construction, rehabilitation, repair or demolition projects in Cook County; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Board of Commissioners establishes a registration requirement
for individuals operating cranes in the County of Cook; and,
BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development Ordinances,
Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Article IV, Crane Operator Registration, Section 102-160
through 102-170 is hereby enacted as follows:
Article IV. Crane Operator Registration
Sec. 102-160.Crane Operation in Cook County.
Effective December 1, 2016, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any crane, as defined in this section, on
any construction, rehabilitation, repair or demolition project undertaken within Cook County, as provided in
Section 102-104(3) of this Code without first having registered as a crane operator. It shall be unlawful to employ
any person or to permit or direct any person on such a project to operate a crane as defined in this chapter on or after
December 1, 2016 unless such person has registered as a crane operator as provided herein.
Sec. 102-161.Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following means ascribed
to them in this article, except were the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Approved accredited certifying entity means any organization whose certification program for crane operators is
accredited by the City of Chicago or its equivalent. Equivalency to the City of Chicago certification program shall
be determined by the Building Commissioner and provided for on the crane operator certification application or
issued by rule or regulation.

Page 16 of 21

 Building Commissioner means the head of the Building and Zoning Department of the County of Cook, as set forth
in Section 102-105 of the Building Code, or the Building Commissioner’s designee.
Crane means any power-operated mechanical hoisting equipment with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of one ton
(2000 pounds) or more that lifts, lowers, rotates or moves a load horizontally or vertically. Such equipment
includes, but is not limited to: (1) Articulating cranes, including knuckle-boom cranes used to deliver material on to
a structure with or without a properly functioning automatic overload prevention device; (2) crawler cranes; (3)
floating cranes; (4) cranes on barges; (5) locomotive cranes; (6) mobile cranes, such as wheel-mounted,
rough-terrain, all-terrain, commercial truck-mounted, and boom truck cranes; (7) multi-purpose machines when
configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load; (8) industrial
cranes (such as carry deck cranes); (9) service/mechanic trucks with a hoisting device; (10) cranes on monorails;
(11) tower cranes (such as a fixed jib, i.e. “hammerhead boom”), luffing boom and self-erecting; (12) pedestal
cranes; (13) portal cranes; (14) overhead and gantry cranes; (15) derricks; (16) powered window washing units if
used to erect portions of a building; (17) track backhoes if used to erect portions of a structure; (18) rack and
pinion/skips; (19) Chicago booms; (20) hydraulic crawler/hydraulic truck cranes (lattice booms); (21) drumhoists;
(22) variations of the equipment listed in items (1) through (21) of this definition; and (23) any other equipment that
the Building Commissioner reasonably determines is appropriately characterized as a crane as set forth in rules and
regulations duly promulgated by the Building Commissioner. The term “crane” does not include (i) dedicated pile
drivers; (ii) straddle cranes; (iii) sideboom cranes; (iv) elevators; (v) powered window washing units unless the unit
is used to erect portions of a building; (vi) skid steers; (vii) all-terrain forklifts unless the forklift is configured to
hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load; (viii) mast-climbing work
platforms, but shall include booms attached to mast-climbing work platforms if the boom has a manufacturer’s rated
capacity of one ton (2000 pounds) or more; (ix) any equipment listed in subsection (c) of 29 CFR 1926.1400 unless
such equipment is listed in items (1) through (23), inclusive, of this definition; (x) variations of the equipment set
forth in items (i) through (ix) of this definition; and (xi) any other equipment that the Building Commissioner
reasonably determines is not appropriately characterized as a crane as set forth in rules and regulations duly
promulgated by the Building Commissioner.
Department means the Building and Zoning Department of the County of Cook.
Registered Crane Operator means any person registered or required to be registered under this Section.
Sec. 102-162.Application for registration.
(a)In order to register as a crane operator under this article, the applicant for crane operator registration must
complete and file an application with the Building Commissioner on a form provided by the Department and satisfy
the County’s crane operator requirements as determined by the Building Commissioner and provided for in the
application.
(b)To qualify for registration and be approved as a crane operator in Cook County, the applicant must
provide evidence on a form acceptable to the Building Commissioner that:
(1) The applicant is at least 21 years old;
(2)The applicant is certified as a crane operator by an approved accredited certifying entity;
(3)The applicant has worked as a crane operator for at least 2,000 hours during the preceding
48-month period or that the applicant has completed an apprenticeship program that is recognized
by an approved accredited certifying entity;
(4)The applicant has not had a crane operator’s or comparable registration suspended or revoked
by the County or any other jurisdiction or a crane operator’s license suspended or revoked by any
other jurisdiction; provided, however, that upon good cause shown and after a full investigation, the
Building Commissioner may waive this prohibition;
(5)The applicant has no history of substance abuse during the preceding three years or that the
applicant has successfully completed a certified substance abuse rehabilitation program;
(6)The applicant has the present physical ability to safely operate a crane; and
Page 17 of 21

 (7)The applicant has the ability to read, write, and speak English at a level that allows effective
communication on the job site.
Sec. 102-163.Registration fees.
The fee for initial registration of all crane operators shall be one hundred five ($105.00) dollars, which sum shall be
paid by the applicant for registration in advance and upon filing the application for registration; provided, however,
that any registrant may renew his registration upon the payment of an annual renewal fee of fifty-two dollars and
fifty cents. ($52.50).
Sec. 102-164.Carrying registration while operating crane – Required.
At all times while operating a crane, the crane operator shall carry his or her registration on his or her person.
Failure to produce a crane operator’s registration upon request of the Building Commissioner or his representative
while operating a crane within Cook County, as provided in Section 102-104(3) shall be punishable by a fine of
$200.00.
Sec. 102-165.Notification of accident or safety issue – Required.
It shall be the duty of each crane operator or person employing such crane operator to immediately report to
the Department any and all accidents or safety issue(s) regarding the operation, assembly, disassembly, or jumping
of a crane.
Sec. 102-166.Safe equipment – Required.
(a) All crane equipment shall be kept in safe working condition at all times by the owner of the crane
equipment and the registered crane operator.
(b) If any safety device or operational aid used or required to be used in connection with the operation of a
crane is not working properly, the person operating such crane shall immediately shut down the crane until
the required safety device or operational aid is repaired or replaced and the crane is restored to proper
working order.
(c) The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations to protect the public safety in
connection with the operation, maintenance, assembly, disassembly, or jumping of cranes. Such
regulations may include any structural, communication, reporting or other requirements deemed by the
Building Commissioner to be necessary or appropriate to securing the safety of the crane operator or the
general public.
Sec. 102-167. Failure to comply with rules and regulations – Unlawful act.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any applicable rule or regulation duly promulgated by the Building
Commissioner under this chapter.
Sec. 102-168. Registration – Duration, revocation, suspension, and nonrenewal.
(a)All applications for registration as a crane operator shall be made in such form and accompanied by such
information as required by the Department.
(b)Every application for a registration fee as shall accompany registration set forth in Section 102-163 and
Chapter 32, said fee shall be payable to the Cook County Collector.
(c)Each registration will run concurrent to Cook County’s fiscal year, December 1 through November 30. Each
registration may be renewed provided that the registered crane operator submits a renewal application prior to
Page 18 of 21

 registration expiration. New applicants shall submit an application for a crane operator registration prior to
operating a crane in Cook County.
(d)No registration shall be transferable to another person.
(e)The Department shall have the authority to deny, suspend, or revoke a registration if it determines the
registrant has failed to comply with any provision of this Section. The notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or
revocation will include a statement informing the registrant of his/her right to appeal the Department’s
determination. Any registrant wishing to appeal the denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation of a registration
must, within 28 calendar days of the date on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation, serve the
Commissioner of Building and Zoning with written notification of the person’s request for appeal by certified mail,
return receipt requested, with a brief statement of the grounds for the appeal. After receiving the request, the
Commissioner of Building and Zoning shall refer the request to the Cook County Department of Administrative
Hearings for a hearing officer, administrative law officer, or administrative law judge to be appointed to conduct the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Cook County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 2,
Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings. If after the administrative hearing the Department of
Administrative Hearings reverses the determination of the Department, then the Department shall lift the
suspension, reinstate the registration, or issue a new registration in accordance with Department policy or
procedures. However, a determination issued by the Department of Administrative Hearings in favor of the
registrant does not forfeit the Department right to file an appeal with the Circuit Court. If the Department finds
that the registrant is in compliance with this article, then the Department shall lift the suspension, reinstate the
registration, or issue a new registration.
Sec. 102-169. Rule Making and Enforcement.
The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon it by this article.
Sec. 102-170. -Violation – Penalty.
(a) Any person who operates a crane without meeting the requirements of this chapter or any rule or regulation
promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 for
each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(b) Any person who employs an unregistered person as a crane operator or who permits or directs an
unregistered person to operate a crane shall be subject to a fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than
$30,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development
Ordinances, Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Section 102-104(3) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 102-104 – General provisions.
***
(3) Scope of regulations.
***
4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Chapter 102, Article IV of this Code shall have applicability throughout the
County of Cook, except within any municipality which has an ordinance governing crane operators. In such case,
the municipal ordinance shall prevail within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
Page 19 of 21

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development
Ordinances, Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Section 102-105(4)3.a of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 102-105 – Administration and Enforcement.
***
(4) Enforcement.
***
3. Methods of Enforcement.
a. Registration for Building Work.
(1) Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of constructing, altering, repairing, relocating, or
demolishing the whole or any part of buildings or structures, or appurtenances thereto, within the unincorporated
area of Cook County, shall, before undertaking the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair, relocation, or
demolition of any building or structure for which permits are required by this Ordinance, register in person with the
Building Commissioner at the offices of the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the name and
address of such person, firm or corporation in a book kept by the Building Commissioner and used for this purpose.
In the case of a firm or corporation, the names of each individual comprising the firm and the names of each officer
or a corporation shall be so registered. No permit shall be granted for the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair,
relocation, or demolition of any building or structure unless the name and address of the person that is about to
undertake such work is contained in the registration book kept for that purpose. The registration requirement for
"in-person" registration of persons, firms, and corporations engaged in the business of constructing, altering,
repairing, relocating, or demolishing buildings or structures set forth herein, shall be for the original or initial
registration of such person, firm, or corporation. Any subsequent registration or re-registration of a person, firm, or
corporation, whose name is contained in the registration book, may be done in person or electronically by signature
affidavit as provided by the Code, the Building Commissioner, or the policy of the Cook County Department of
Building and Zoning.
(2) Installation or alteration of electrical equipment shall be done only by a registered electrical contractor,
regardless of who is issued a permit.
(3) Prior to the commencement of actual construction for which a permit has been issued, the permit shall file with
the Building Commissioner, on a form provided by the Building Commissioner, the name of the person(s), firm(s),
or corporation(s), engaged to perform the work. When the work is to be subcontracted, the party engaged for each
subcontract shall also be listed. The Building Commissioner shall then determine that the name and address of this
person(s), firm(s), or corporation(s) is (are) contained in the registration book. No construction work shall
commence until the Building Commissioner certifies that the contractor(s) is (are) duly registered.
(4) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (4) above, a person desiring to be registered as an electrical
contractor shall be registered for the current year as an electrical contractor in a city or village within the State of
Illinois in conformity with the appropriate state statutes.
(5) If any person, firm or corporation registered as provided by this section, shall fail in the execution of any work or
fail to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance relative to the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair,
relocation, or demolition of any building, or part thereof, at least three times within two calendar years, the Building
Commissioner, after notice to such person, firm or corporation that he, she, or it has three such failures or violations,
shall remove or strike such person’s, firm’s, or corporation’s name from the registration book. For persons, firms, or
corporations that have one such failure or violation, the Building Commissioner shall request the State’s Attorney to
bring suit and to prosecute such person, firm or corporation for such failure or violation, and in the case of a finding
of guilty, his name shall be removed or stricken from the registration book. In either case, such person’s, firm’s, or
corporation’s name shall not be re-entered or reinstated during such time as the failure or violation exists or any
judgment remains unsatisfied with regard to said finding, or until the Building Commissioner determines that such
person, firm, or corporation should be re-entered or reinstated.
(6) Any person, firm, or corporation that shall have been found guilty under the preceding Section may have his
name re-entered on the registration book upon filing with the Building Commissioner a certificate signed by the
State’s Attorney, the Building Commissioner and the Health Officer to the effect that all violations of the Code with
reference to which the finding of guilty was secured have been corrected or are nonexistent and that all claims and
judgments arising from such convictions have been paid.
Page 20 of 21

 (7) (i) Prior to the registration of any contractor, the contractor shall present to the Building Commissioner at the
time of registration, proof of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00.
(ii) Prior to the registration of a plumbing contractor, the contractor shall file with the Cook County Clerk, and
present to the Building Commissioner at the time of registration, an indemnifying bond with good and sufficient
sureties in the penal sum of $20,000.00, such bond being payable to the County of Cook, for the use of any persons
with whom such contractor may thereafter contract to do work, to indemnify any such persons and the County of
Cook for damages sustained due to the failure of such contractor to perform the work so contracted for in
accordance with the provisions and requirements of the Cook County building regulations, the approved permit
plans, or the contract between the contractor and such person(s). In addition, such contractor shall present to the
Building Commissioner at the time of registration, proof of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32, Fees, of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
CHAPTER 102, BUILDING CODE, ARTICLE IV. CRANE OPERATOR REGISTRATION
102-163

Initial Crane Operator Registration

105.00

102-163

Crane Operator Registration Annual Renewal

52.50

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for deferral as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this committee was
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Morrison, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Moore and Schneider (3)

Respectfully submitted,

_____________________________________
Chairman

_________________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com
Page 21 of 21

 