Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 16, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Juan M. Calderon
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 16, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:04 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: April 18, 2018 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner Morita provided the following updates:
Foodborne Outbreak. CDPH played a lead role in two recent high-profile foodborne outbreak
investigations. In both cases, our teams acted quickly to identify issues, mitigate any health concerns
and ensure there was no threat to the general public.
Shedd Aquarium. After dozens of students from a suburban high school became ill with norovirus
after attending prom events, including one at Shedd, CDPH dispatched food inspectors and
communicable disease investigators. We did not identify significant problems in food service. As a
precaution, we worked with the Shedd to ensure a thorough environmental cleaning and ongoing
water quality testing. We have reassured the public we have no ongoing concerns.
Cook County Jail. More than 50 detainees developed gastrointestinal illness in one division at Cook
County Jail. Six individuals were laboratory-confirmed to have Salmonella, bacteria that can
contaminate food and cause serious illness. The jail worked quickly to contain the illness. Although
two detainees initially required hospitalization, they have recovered. Working closely with Cook
County, CDPH is leading an investigation to identify potential sources of the bacteria, test food
handlers, and ensure food safety at the jail. The investigation is ongoing.
Vaccine Accolades. Chicago continues to break all records regarding our HPV prevention efforts for
adolescents, in our ongoing effort to increase uptake of the HPV vaccine which can prevent cervical,
anal, head and neck cancers. In 2017, 89, 905 HPV vaccines were distributed directly to providers in
Chicago – nearly 50% higher than the CDC’s goal. This milestone follows CDPH’s ongoing
campaign including provider outreach and education. The CDC recognized Chicago with the
excellence in the National Immunization Survey-Teen Coverage (HPV, Tdap and MCV4) and
Influenza Vaccination Coverage in children awards at this week’s National Immunization
Conference in Atlanta.
CDC Site Visits. As CDPH is nearly 80% grand funded, our federal and state funders conduct
intensive site visits to audit our programs’ efforts against funding requirement. Over the past month,
we have hosted numerous site visits to assess five key City programs: tuberculosis prevention, WIC,
nursing support services, public health emergency preparedness and immunization. I am proud to say
that all five programs received overwhelming praise and feedback following their site visits, ensuring
we remain good standing for future funding opportunities.
Manganese Update. Last week, we hosted a community meeting along with local environmental
advocacy groups, Alderwoman Garza, the CDC and local EPA officials to outline the city’s plan to
investigate and respond to elevated levels of manganese on the SE side. Following requests made by
CDPH, the USEPA will move forward with a full soil assessment, while the CDC investigates health
risks. We will also hold a public hearing on our proposed updates to the bulk material regulations on
June 6th at The Zone on the Southeast side.
Advancing Trauma-Informed Care. Marlita White, CDPH's Director of Violence Prevention
presented at the Center for Health Care Strategies, Advancing Trauma-Informed Care convening in
New York City. She presented on CDPH's work and how we are contributing, with Illinois Adverse
Childhood Experiences (ACEs) as the lead, to the Chicago area Trauma-Informed Hospital
Collaborative of 14 hospitals who are undertaking trauma focused transformations. In addition,
Chairman Burke passed a resolution last month during city council, highlighting the impact trauma

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 16, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
has on our residents and the crucial role that of our Violence Prevention team plays in ensuring
Chicago is a trauma-informed city.
Nurse’s Day. Commissioner Morita joined with her leadership team and partners from Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Illinois to salute CDPH’s public nurses for a day of celebration and training. The
portfolio of our nurses spans home visits for at – risk infants, STI testing and consultation and
investigating communicable disease outbreaks, as well as supporting other city agencies, including
our upcoming plan to provide onsite services during DFSS’ planned decampment for homeless
individuals on Wacker.
Congenital Syphilis Campaign. CDPH launched a public education campaign to increase congenital
syphilis testing among pregnant woman. Congenital syphilis is an infection transmitted from mother
to child during pregnancy and/or delivery caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Congenital
syphilis can cause severe illness in babies including premature birth, low birth rate, birth defects,
blindness, and hearing loss. It can also lead to stillbirth and infant death. We remind pregnant
women to seek prenatal care and ask about congenital syphilis testing. For more information please
visit www.healthychicagobabies.org
National Praise. CDPH continues to garner national praise for ongoing work to improve health
equity at the local level. Also in partnership with the Department of Innovation and Technology, the
University of Chicago Center for Data Science and Public Policy and AllianceChicago, CDPH
received the inaugural 2018 Milbank Foundation and AcademyHealth State and Local Innovation
Award for our work using data analytics to improve the approach to lead paint exposure and
poisoning in children. We created a predictive model that combines data from multiple sectors to
identify at-risk children for blood testing or homes for lead inspections. The project also developed a
shared platform with pediatric providers that recommend specific actions based on lead-poisoning
risk.
CDPH Leadership Team. Jennifer Vidis attended today’s Board Health meeting and was introduced
by Commissioner Morita as the new Chief Program Officer for the HIV/STI and Maternal, Infant,
Child, Adolescent Health (MICAH) programs.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an overview
of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and
health issues affecting public health.
Presentation: “Chicago Board of Health Members” Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H., and
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following updates:
Bulk Materials—environment. We have opened up our bulk materials rules for revision and are
soliciting public feedback. We created bulk materials rules in 2014 to set regulations on petcoke as
well as coal, iron ore, and other things that might pollute or create dust in a neighborhood. We are
now proposing changes regarding manganese, saying that facilities must either fully enclose their
operations involving manganese-bearing materials or put up air monitors ensuring dust isn’t getting
into the outside neighborhood. We are welcoming feedback through June 13. These proposed rules
build on the passage of an ordinance banning any expansion of operations using manganese in
Chicago and requiring a setback of at least 150 feet from the public way.
LGBT Databook. Alderman Deb Mell introduced a resolution calling on the health committee to
hold a hearing on the LGBT health databook that CDPH created and explore any actions the City
could take as a result of the data. CDPH developed this databook to draw attention to the health

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: May 16, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
needs of LGBT residents to help enable legislators and the community to take action. There are
several key findings, including that young LGB adults are far more likely than older ones to report
psychological distress, and report lower wellbeing than their heterosexual peers. In addition, male
gay and bisexual youth report high rates of substance use, particularly of heroin and painkillers.
HPV Vaccine. Today there’s scheduled to be a state legislative hearing on a bill to require the state
to provide information on HPV, associated cancers, and the HPV vaccine to students entering sixth
grade and their guardians. This would apply to male and female students alike.
Medicaid Waiver. The state of Illinois won $2 billion from the federal government in Medicaid
funding for the programs focusing on behavioral health and addiction. The funding comes due to an
1115 waiver that allows states to experiment with different ways of spending Medicaid dollars, with
the expectation that the programs will lead to cost-savings over time. The funding will result in
various pilots aiming to do more integrated care for patients will focusing on people with behavioral
health issues because they are a quarter of the Illinois Medicaid population but account for more than
half of the Medicaid spending.
Opioids. A report in JAMA suggested there’s evidence that doctors’ opioid prescribing may be
influenced by industry payments, free meals, and speaking fees. The authors suggested that
manufacturers consider a voluntary decrease or cessation of marketing to physicians. Additionally,
Walmart has announced its restricting opioid prescriptions for acute pain to a seven-day supply. And
residents of five states including Illinois have brought lawsuits against drug manufacturers, saying
the opioid epidemic increased health insurance costs for everyone, not just those with substance use
disorders.
Tobacco. The FDA announced a crackdown on JUUL e-cigarettes, aiming to stop sales to youth.
JUULs are popular among youth and look like USB flash drives so they’re easy to conceal at school
or home. They have high levels of nicotine. As we know, youth tend to underestimate the
addictiveness of e-cigarettes, making these products especially concerning. There are also lookalike
products emerging from different companies. In April, the FDA did stings on e-cigarette sales to
minors at both brick-and-mortar and online retailers, though violators received only a warning letter.
The FDA also contacted got eBay to remove JUUL products from its website and is requesting
information from JUUL on marketing and health research.
ACA. Two health insurers in Virginia have proposed substantial rate increases on the exchanges,
saying their justification was Trump administration policies including the elimination of the
individual mandate.
New Business: None
Old Business: Dr. Lopez mentioned, she spoke with the Law Department and was informed the
BOH retreat is not possible. Instead, she will contact BOH members individually, asking how BOH
member can optimize their assistance.
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:34 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 at 9:00 a.m.

 