REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS 

January 18, 2011

The Honorable, 

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County 

ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia. Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider. Sims, Steele
and Tobolski (15)

Absent:

Commissioners Murphy and Silvestri (2)

Also Present:

Maria De Lourdes Coss, Interim Purchasing Agent; Susan J. White, Susan J.
White & Associates, fnc.

Ladies and Gentfemen:
Your Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, January 18, 2011 at the
hour of 11 :00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
310500  

PURCHASING AGENT (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting a Communication dated
December 28,2010 from TONI PRECKWINKLE. President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners:
Pursuant to Illinois State law, specifically 55 ILCS 5/5-36002, I hereby appoint
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS to the position of Purchasing Agent, effective
immediately.
Maria De Lourdes Coss most recently served as the Director of Purchasing at the
University of Illinois - Chicago's Office of Business & Financial Services. She also
served as the Managing Deputy Procurement Officer for the City of Chicago's
Department of Procurement Services.
Maria De Lourdes Coss is highly experienced in the area of public procurement
and possesses executive procurement experience for public entities of
comparable size to Cook County. Based upon the aforementioned, Maria De
Lourdes Coss will be an asset to the Cook County Purchasing Department.
I submit this communication for your approval.

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 18, 2011
PAGE 2
*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
on January 4, 2011.
Ms. Maria De Lourdes Coss delivered remarks. Chairman Suffredin entered these remarks, as
well as Interim Purchasing Agent Coss' resume, into the record. (See attached.)
Chairman Suffredin entered the following four letters into the record:
Letter from Mary A. Dempsey to President Preckwinkle, dated January 11, 2011.
attachment. )

(See

Letter from David P. Winters to President Preckwinkle, dated January 11, 2011.
attachment.)

(See

Letter from Hedy M. Ratner of the Women's Business Development Center to President Toni
Preckwinkle, dated January 11,2010. (See attachment.)
Letter from Ben Bagby of the State of Illinois Chief Procurement Officer to President Toni
Preckwinkle, dated January 11,2011. (See attachment.)
Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by commissioner Goslin, moved the approval of
Communication No. 310500. The motion carried.
310501  

SUSAN J. WHITE, SUSAN J. WHITE & ASSOCIATES, I!\IC. (PROPOSED
CONTRACT). Transmitting a Communication dated December 28, 2010 from
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners:
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
SUSAN J. WHITE, SUSAN J. WHITE & ASSOCIATES, INC., whose name I am
submitting for consideration as a county lobbyist. Ms. White will serve for a period
of twelve (12) months beginning January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 in
the amount of $150,000.00.
Ms. White has represented Cook County in
Washington, DC since 1997. Her extensive knowledge of public health issues and
federal funding make her uniquely qualified to continue to represent Cook County.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $150,000.00. Contract period: January 1, 2011 through
December 31, 2011. (490-260 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
on January 4, 2011.

Derek Blaida delivered remarks on behalf of President Preckwinkle. Chairman Suffredin
entered these remarks as well as Susan J. White's resume into the record. (See attached.)
Susan J. White answered questions put forth by the Commissioners.

 LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 18, 2011
PAGE

3

In response to Commissioner Sims' request, Ms. White agreed to provide to the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee a list of all public hospitals in the United States and the
share of federal funds they receive.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved the approval of
Communication No. 310501. The motion carried.
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd):
1. George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Sims.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS 

WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN: 

Communication Number 310500
Communication Number 310501

Approved
Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

Attest:

*An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 Office ofthe Purchasing Agent 

Confirmation Hearing for Purchasing Agent 

Maria de Lourdes Coss 


Thank you Chairman Suffredin and Commissioners of the Cook County Board. I want to take this opportunity to express my
deepest appreciation to President Preckwinckle for appointing me as Purchasing Agent for Cook County.
As you see on my resume, I have a Master's Degree in Public Administration and over 24 years of public procurement
experience. I have private sector, non-for-profit, local government, and higher education experience. Prior to becoming
the Director of Purchasing at the University of Illinois at Chicago, I was Managing Deputy Procurement Officer at the City of
Chicago. I returned to the City in 2005 after being at the Public Building Commission for almost five years when Mary
Dempsey asked me to join her team to help her reenergize the Department of Procurement Services. I am a Certified Public
Purchasing Officer and' sit on the Board of the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing. While at the UniversitY, I
was appointed by Governor Quinn to the Business Enterprise Council to represent higher education and was also a member
of the Disparity Study Oversight Committee.
This is an exciting opportunity to implement change to positively impact the lives of taxpayers. I share this administration's
vision for transparency and efficiency to restore public trust in the operations of government. Consistent with the
President's vision, the implementation of strategic efforts is imminent. It is important that we implement strategies that
will help the County realize cost savings in its purchases in order to continue to deliver the services necessary for the
taxpayers. It is also our goal to implement workshops to educate vendors regarding the process of doing bUSiness with the
County in order to achieve more competition and greater participation by minority and women-owned businesses.
Through the implementation of strategic efforts, cost savings will be realized and relationships will be enhanced. A team
approach to purchasing with the offices of other elected officials will help leverage volume. Working together will help us
maximize the benefits of each other strengths and open the lines of communication. Better communication will be an asset
in achieving greater transparency of procurement transactions.
Transparency in government is a nationwide topic when it comes to procurement. Many agencies throughout the country
have some type of transparency initiative providing taxpayers a view of government operations, particularly government
spending and contract awards. This initiative goes hand in hand with technology. We will be looking at short and long term
solutions to achieve the level of transparency to which this administration has committed. The implementation of
technology will also be an opportunity to rethink and streamline processes in order to eliminate any redundancy that
ultimately results in inefficiencies and waste.
Finally, in order to create a sustainable base to continue to seek and implement best practices, it is crucial to establish a
professional development program leading to certification in public procurement. The training has proven valuable in other
organizations and it is a measure of excellence in the area of public procurement not only nationally, but also
internationally. Holding a certification in public procurement such as Certified Professional Public Buyer (CPPB) or Certified
Public Purchasing Officer (CPPO) elevates the level of professionalism ofthe staff, their expertise and credibility. These are
designations that are highly regarded in the field of public procurement. The course work lead to the adoption to values
and principles that should be upheld by qualified public procurement personnel.
In summary, the implementation of formal training and technology will help us build a solid base to continue to adopt best
practices, think more strategically, build relationships, improve communication internally and externally, make processes
more transparent, and help reduce the cost of services provided by the County. Thank you.

 Resume

MARIA DE LOURDES COSS 

5933 N. Sauganasb Lane 

Chicago, IL 60646 

(773) 286-0266 Home (312) 927-3490 cell 


Career Objective: To effectively lead the development of creative strategies to improve public procurement by promoting
transparency, establishing benchmarks, streamlining processes, maximizing the use ofteclmology and available resources,
and enhancing competition while addressing social responsibilities.

SUMMARY OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
•   Modified organizational structure maximizing available resources and improving efficiency.
•   Implemented technology resulting in greater efficiency, improved communication, and greener environment.
•   Reengineered procurement and contracting process resulting in significant reduction of cycle times, higher quality,
improved customer service, and greater transparency.
•   Developed and implemented inclusion strategies enhancing minority and female-owned businesses opportunities.
•   Developed negotiation strategies and implemented benchmarks resulting in significant cost savings.
•   Designed fmancial rating system leading to contracts with financially capable vendors.
•   Developed and implemented professional development program enhancing personnel knowledge and credentials.

EXPERIENCE:
2006-Present  

University of lJ)inois at Chicago (UIC), Office of Business & Financial Services
Director of Purchasing
Oversee and approve procurement and contracting activities for the UIC. Developed a plan and continue
to implement changes in the Purchasing Division geared to improve customer service, add value to each
transaction, and enhance overall efficiency while promoting transparency, accountability, and
productivity. Developed and implemented professional development program resu1ting in the certification
of 86% of qualified staff. Developed and implemented changes to enhance the Minority and Female
Business Enterprise program and increase the participation by certified fInns in the procurement process.
Developed operational requirements for the acquisition of teclmology to help manage workload, monitor
the progress of projects, reduce cycle times, improve communication, and promote a greener
environment. Review and make recommendations for tbe resolution of conflict of interests. Actively
participate in the development of strategies to address procurement and contracting issues within the
University and the Illinois Public Higher Education Consortium. Member of tbe Business Enterprise
Program Council (on behalf of the State public universities). mc representative at the green consortium
initiative comprised of government agencies in Chicago.

2005-2006  

City of Chicago, Department of Procurement Services (DPS)
Managing Deputy Procurement Officer
Oversaw the procurement and contracting of goods and services for the City of Chicago. Led effort to
eliminate a backlog of over 900 contracts and amendments while managing incoming requests for
contract-related transactions. Implemented changes to the organizational structure of the department.
Implemented a strategy to improve communication with client departments. Led a strategic team charged
with the responsibility of stream1ining the contracting process. Improvements include the development of
processes for: the annual electronic submission of the Economic Disclosure Statement, the
implementation of an annual buying plan, implementation of a vendor report card, simplification of
contract packaging, streamlining of the signature process, and standardization/simplification of contracts.
Participated and coordinated Procurement's role in other city-wide initiatives. Actively participated in
the development of the Department's annual budget including defending the proposed budget before City
CounciL Responsible for approximately 3/4 ofthe Department's staff(approximately 90 staff positions).

 Resume
Maria de Lourdes Coos
Page 2
2000-2005

Public Building Commission of Cbicago (PBC)
Directo r of Procurement
Redefined responsibilities and established a procurement structure within the organization. Oversaw the
procurement, contracting, and contract compliance activities for the PBC. Developed and implemented
procedures to streamline existing processes. Implemented procurement system to enhance overalJ
efficiency and a greener environment. Redesigned and oversaw the implementation of the pre­
quaHfication process. Developed and implemented dispute review procedures. Reviewed disputes and
protests submitted to the PBC and recommended a course of action to the Executive Director. Established
fmancial and qualifications benchmarks for the evaluation of contractors. Developed and implemented a
performance evaluation process for general contractors and professional servicefrrms. Researched and
developed design errors and omissions claim procedures. Prepared analyses and presented results to the
Board of Commissioners. Oversaw PBC's participation in MBE/WBE outreach activities and spoke on
behalf of the PBC at conferences when required. Established an annual buying plan. Prepared the
Purchasing Department's operating budget. Held director position in the City'S Power Alliance Board
on behalf of the Public Building Commission.

1998-2000

City of Chicago, Department of Purchases, .contracts & Supplies
Deputy Purchasing Agent - Infrastructure and Social Services Contracts
Oversaw the procurement and contracting of the City of Chicago capital program and social service
projects. Implemented procedures to streamline the procurement and contracting processes. Developed
and implemented standard compensation provisions and negotiation benchmarks for A &E professional
service agreements. Designed and oversaw the implementation of the pre-qualification process for the
procurement and contracting ·of A&E services. Designed and implemented the performance evaluation
process for construction contractors and A&E frrms. Developed and implemented protest procedures.
Participated in the review of disputes and protests and recommended course of action to the Purchasing
Agent. Directed the drafting, review, and implementation of the construction contract standardization
and the standard terms and conditions for A&E professional service agreements. Developed procedures
to document A&E contract cJose-out.

1996-1998

City of Cbicago, Department of Sewers
Director of Procurement and Inventory Controi--Capital Program
Oversaw the processing of contracts and amendments for design and construction. Developed strategy to
expedite the contracting process and reduce cost. Streamlined change order process to address field
issues in a timely manner. Implemented procedures to ascertain compliance with MBEIWBE, EEO and
CRO requirements. Oversaw the invoice review process. Implemented controls to ascertain that
contracts were closed and monies released.

1992-1996

City of Cbicago, Mayor's Office of Budget & Management
Chief Purcbasing Officer for tbe Central Area Circulator Project
(and Assistant Purcbasing Agent-Department of Purchases, Contracts & Supplies)
Oversaw and directed all procurement activity, including: contract administration; DBE
compliance; invoice review and approval process. Developed and implemented DBE compliance
procedures in accordance with Purchasing Department's poHcies. Developed policies and established
procedures regarding internal fmancial controls. Developed written submittal evaluation guidelines.
Served as liaison between the Project and the Purchasing Department on procurement, contractual, and
DBE compliance issues.

1989-1992

City ofCbicago, Department of Purebases, Contracts & Supplies
Contract Negotiator
Coordinated, prepared, and negotiated of complex professional service contracts. Prepared procurement
documents and coordinated the evaluation of responses. Prepared proposals' cost & price analyses.
Reviewed and analyzed the financial condition and technical expertise of consulting companies and
recommended the selection of contract awardees. Prepared modifications and amendments as required.
Administered the financial rating system for construction contractors. Researched, developed and
implemented benchmarks for the negotiation of engineering contracts. Developed model RFQ and
professional service agreement for use throughout the City.

 Resume
Maria de Lourdes Coss
Page 3
1987~1989

City of Cbicago, Department ofPurcbases, Contracts & Supplies
Financial Analyst
Outlined consultant procurement process for the City, designed annual evaluation procedures and
developed criteria for the evaluation and selection of professional service consultants. Designed,
implemented, and administered city~wide annual financial rating system for construction contractors.

1986-1987

City ofCbicago, Department of Revenue
Auditor I
Conducted field audits of various businesses to determine compliance with municipal tax ordinances.
Reviewed payment history of businesses during license renewal period. Conducted investigative
activities to locate unregistered and non~paying tax collectors.

1986~1986

Caballeros de San Juan Credit Union, Cbicago, Illinois
Financial Analyst-Commercial Loans
Prepared loan packages for small businesses and presented to bankers for approval. Conducted short
seminars regarding the preparation of business plan and financial planning. Wrote articles for newsletter
and prepared the Manual of Policies and Procedures for the Credit Union.

1985~1986

Wieboldt Stores, Inc. Cbicago, Illinois
Staff Auditor-Internal Audit Department
Performed fmancial and operational audits; reviewed and evaluated internal controls for compliance with
corporate policies and to identify system enhancements; performed system walk~through and detail tests
oftransactions; drafted audit reports to present fmdings to senior management.

1984-1984

City of Tallabassee, Florida
Office of Management and Budget
Intern-Capital Budget
Assisted in the preparation of the City's annual Capital Budget and Capital Improvement Program;
analyzed cost overruns and subsequent operating costs ofnew capital projects.

EDUCATION:
1984
Florida State University
MPA, Financial Management & Budget
1980  

University of Puerto Rico
BSS~Business-Magna Cum Laude
(Graduate courses in Public Administration)

CERTIFICATION: 

2008
Certified Public Purchasing Officer, Universal Public Purchasing Certification Council 

MEMBERSHIPS AND ACTIVITIES:
National Institute of Government Purchasing; National Association of Educational Procurement; Florida
State University Alumni Association. Serve in the NIGP Chapter Relations committee; participant in the
development ofNIGP paper on government transparency; NlGP Board Member on behalf of Region 8.

References provided upon request.

 MARY A. DEMPSEY
400 S. STATE STREET

CHICAGO.ILLlNOIS 60605

January 11,2011
Toni Preckwinkle
President
Board ofCook County Commissioners
118 N. Clark Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
RE: Maria de Lourdes Coss

Dear President Preckwinkle:
] am very pleaSed to write in support of your nomination of Maria de
Lourdes Coss as Purchasing Agent of Cook County. I have worked
directly with Ms. Coss on purchasing matters for many years and believe
she is an exemplary choice for Purchasing Agent for Cook County.
Ms. Coss has an outstanding professional reputation and record ofwork in
the field of government procurement and purchasing. Not only is she
extremely knowledgeable about the field as evidenced by her long and
successful career, most importantly she is a person of high integrity arid
honesty. I first worked with Ms. Coss when she was the Director of
Procurement for the Public Building Commission where the Chicago
Public Library is a major client. Ms. Coss not only handled her duties
with tremendous competence and professionalism. but I was always
confident that she and her team were scrupulous in following applicable
purchasing laws and procedures including adhering to the PBC's M/WBE
policies and requirements.
So highly did] think of Ms. Coss' integrity and abilities that in 2005 when
Mayor Richard M. Daley asked me'to reinvent and revitalize the City of
Chicago's Department of Procurement Services (DPS), I sought out Ms.
Coss to leave the PBC and to assist me in my work at DPS. Ms. Coss
became the Managing Deputy Procurement Officer. She was an
invaluable member of our new team - devising and implementing a
strategic plan, introducing efficiencies to eliminate a massive backlog,
training staff in proper procedures and in the purchasing code and laws,
introducing technology to ensure greater efficiency and accountability.
and helping to set a tone ofhonesty, integrity, professionalism and
competence that had been lacking in that department. The Department of
Procurement Services was transformed for the better, thanks in large
measure to the dedication and professionalism of Ms. Coss and those she
recruited and trained at DPS.

 President Preckwinkle
January 11,2011
Page 2
Ms. Coss' reputation in the profession continued to grow after I left DPS.
In 2006, she was recruited to the position of Director ofPurchasing at the
University ofIllinois at Chicago (UIC). I was very pleased to recommend
her for that position, to the Chancellor of the University. Her outstanding
work there for the past four years has obviously brought her to your
attention.
I can think ofno fmer way to transform and professionalize purchasing for

Cook County than to appoint Lourdes Coss as the Purchasing Agent for
the County. And I can think ofno finer way to set a tone of honesty,
integrity and fairness within that department than to have Ms. Coss as its
leader.
I recommend her to you with great enthusiasm. I know that she will make

you, the Commissioners and the people of Cook County proud to know
that its purchasing department will not only comply with appJicable laws,
but that their work will be marked by the highest degree ofcompetence,
innovation, professionalism and integrity.
I congratulate you on your selection of Ms. Coss. Please feel free to

contact me directly if you or any ofthe Commissioners wishes to talk with
me further.

~~'JJ'-L)6
Mary A. Dempsey

 January 11,2011
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
] 18 North Clark Street, Room 537
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:

Maria del Lourdes Coss

Dear President Preckwinkle:
It is an honor to be asked to furnish this letter in support of Lourdes Coss' appointment to the
office of Purchasing Agent of Cook County. 1 have known Lourdes for fifteen years as both a
client and colJeague. In 1995, Lourdes represented the City of Chicago's Department of
Purchases, Contracts and Supplies ("City Purchasing"), and 1 represented the City's Department
of Law, on the team that worked on the development of the Central Area Circulator for the City.
Lourdes was very knowledgeable about both procurement and City government. More
importantly to me, she was very generous with her knowledge and her time, as 1 was new to City
government at that point, and I learned a great deal from her.
In ] 997, I joined City Purchasing as an Assistant Purchasing Agent, and was responsible for all
procurement for the Department of Aviation. Lourdes was working as the contracts administrator
for the Department of Sewers at that point. Fortunately, she was willing to take on a bigger role
in City Purchasing, and became the Deputy Purchasing Agent for the City's infrastructure
departments when I was appointed Deputy Purchasing Agent for Aviation. We worked closely
together to standardize forms and practices across departments, manage change orders more
effectively, and decrease the processing time for infrastructure contracts. We both left City
Purchasing in 2000, but when I returned to the City Law Department in 2005, I was happy to
learn that Lourdes had returned to the Department of Procurement Services as the Deputy
Procurement Officer for the Department of Aviation. Once again we worked closely with each
other in the effort to move the O'Hare Modernization Program from the planning stage to
construction, and were able to initiate the controls and processes that facilitated the OMP's
achievements in meeting their schedules and budgets.

As far as I am concerned, the County could not have made a better selection for its Purchasing
Agent. Lourdes has the knowledge, interpersonal skilJs, patience, and most importantly, the
integrity that is essential for public procurement work. 1 have no doubt that Lourdes wiJ) do wen
in the position of Purchasing Agent, and that her good work wiJ] reflect well upon and provide the
necessary support to your administration, and County government as a whole. Pleas.e feel free to
contact me at 312-628-7016 should you have any questions in this regard.

 wom~rs

Business evelopment
enter
"
;' t

A Bridge To Success

January 11, 2010
Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
118 N. Clark, Suite 500
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re: Maria De lourdes Coss
Dear Toni:
Maria De lourdes Coss is the perfect choice for the position of Chief Procurement Officer for Cook
County.
Very few people, loCally or nationally, have the experience and the reputation that lourdes Coss has in
the procurement and purchasing community and among small business owners and the minority and
women's business community.
She has had a major impact on public procurement and is committed to transparency, process
improvement, the utilization of technology and ethics and integrity.
Her experience at the University of Illinois as Director of Purchasing resulted in the implementation of ,
an organizational structure and processes that is exactly what Cook County needs in their procurement
programs.
She served with esteem as Managing Deputy Procurement Officer at the City of Chicago and especially
at the Public Building Commission where she expanded its compliance with Minority and women's
business goals.
She has continued to be active i~ important purchasing organizations and in procurement and M!WBE
councils to enhance and strengthen government procurement programs for minority and women
business enterprises.
I commend the President's office for an excellent appointment of lourdes Coss as Chief Procurement 

Officer.
•


8 South Michigan Avenue. 4th Floor

I Chicago.IL

60603

I ph 312.853.3477 I

fx 312.853.0145

I www.wbdc.org

 --

STATE OF ILLINOIS 

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICE 


January 11, 2011
Hon. Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County Board
118 N. Clark Street, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Re: Lourdes Coss
Dear President Prec.kwinkle:
I am writing in support of the appointment of Lourdes Coss to the position of chief procurement officer
for Cook County.
Her credentials are excellent with 24 years experience in government procurement, national
certification (Certified Public Purchasing Officer) and a master's degree in public administration.
I could recommend her on the credentials alone, but she brings more to the job that that. From
personal knowledge I know that ethics and integrity are paramount to her. She really enjoys profession
of procurement and understands how procurement needs to work within the system to meet the goals
of the larger organization.
A good leader recognizes that good staff is key to the success of the organization. One thing that
especially impressed me was her dedication to her staff. She went to great lengths to train and raise the
professionalism of the staff. Mo.:;t of the buying staff now holds at least one procurement certification.
! had previo'.lsly appointed lourdes as Acting State Purchasing Officer for the University of IlIino!s at
Chicago. That was a good decision on my part and I think you made a good decision to appoint her to
your CPO position.

•

lfyou have any questions, please call me at 217-558-2254.

Ben Bagby
Chief Procurement Officer for Institutions of Higher Education

:
401 SOUTH SPRING STREET. SUITE )01 STRAlTON BUILDING. SPRINGFIELD. ILLINOIS 62706 _____~_._. __ .. ~_
PHONE (L17}558·2157 • FAX (217)558-2164
-~-

 Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to present on behalf of President
Preckwinkle a federal lobbying contract for Susan White of Susan J. White and
Associates. Susan has had a relationship with Cook County for and began lobbying
on behalf of Cook County in 1997.
Let me be clear on the current climate in Washington DC. This will be a difficult year
for units oflocal government. As you know, upon becoming Speaker of the House,
John Boehner and the Majority Caucus have outlined their governing priorities.
Among those priorities are:
Reducing government spending and cutting appropriation levels by 9% under last
year's marks, which are projected to save the fed.eral government tens of billions of
dollars;
Freezing and reducing domestic discretionary spending to save over $50 billion.
Domestic discretionary spending includes programming and federal grants to units
of local government. The new House Budget Committee Chairman has previously
advocated for discretionary funding to be level-funded through fiscal year 2014­
that would mean reducing budget line items each year by the rate of inflation;
The new Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee has proposed
block granting Medicaid funds to states.
As you know, the federal government pays a fixed share of a state's Medicaid costs.
If the federal government moves to block granting those dollars to states, it would
then pay only a fixed dollar amount of a state's costs.
If Illinois exceeded the amount of Medicaid funding provided to it, the state would
be responsible for all costs that exceed the cap.
Even with the income tax increase that was passed last week by the Illinois General
Assembly, Illinois remains billions of dollars in debt. Block grants could be
devastating to our Health and Hospitals System.
Also targeted by Members of both parties are continuing appropriations to help
reduce the federal deficit. Already indentified by Members of both parties are funds
that we receive, allocated in the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000,
for funding our health system. From this appropriation alone, we receive over $130
million per year.
And Members of both parties in both chambers have said earmarks will be
eliminated within the budget this year.

 The federal budget for FFY 2012 will be smaller than the one currently in effect. And
cuts will be made to states and units of local government. We will take every
opportunity that is presented to bring more federal resources home to Cook County,
including submitting projects for inclusion with the surface transportation
reauthorization bill.
But our first priority will be defending and keeping the resources that we receive
from Washington DC. That is responsible course of action. Helping us do that again
this year will be Susan White.
Susan's government relations practice spans over thirty years in Washington on
federal, state and local government issues, including health and tax policy legislation
and regulation. She has successfully sought direct funding under Medicaid for
hospitals, specific tax provisions for her clients and appropriations funding for local
projects in the social services and infrastructure areas.
Susan worked for ten years as a health and tax and finance lobbyist for the National
Association of Counties and in her own business has represented numerous
counties over the years.
Susan has over thirty years in Washington DC, working closely with key
congreSSional leadership offices and congressional committees, including the Senate
Committees on Finance and on Health, Education, Labor and Pension (HELP); the
House Committees on Ways and Means, on Energy and Commerce, and on Education
and Labor; the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations and others.
She works with numerous public interest and trade groups in Washington, including
the American Hospital Association, the National Association of Public Hospitals, the
National Association of Children's Hospitals, the National Governors' Association,
the National Association of Counties, the National Conference of State Legislatures,
the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities.
She has a reputation for honesty and competency among members of the Cook
County and Illinois Congressional Delegation and J am happy to present her contract
for this committee's consideration.
Susan or I am happy to answer any questions that you or any committee member
may have for us.

 SUSAN J. WHITE
1020 North Fairfax Street, #202 

Alexandria, Virginia 22314 

Office: (703) 683-2573 

Home: (703) 548-9175 


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
President, Susan J. White & Associates (SJW A), July 1992-Present
Ms. White's government relations practice has represented clients for over
nineteen years on federal, state and local government issues, including health and tax
policy legislation and regulation. SJWA has successfully sought direct funding under
Medicaid and Medicare for hospitals, specific tax provisions for clients and
appropriations funding for local projects in the social services, education and
infrastructure areas. Ms. White has represented and consults with the following non­
profit and governmental entities:
•   Los Angeles County, California in Washington on all federal health financing,
mental health, public health and HIV / AIDS issues;
•   California Health Insuring Organizations (CAHIO), a state-wide association
representing California's non-profit Medicaid managed care entities
•   CenCal Health-one of the nation's first Medicaid non-profit HMO's located in
Santa Barbara, California on Medicaid funding;
•   Cook County, Illinois in Washington on health care and other legislative and.
funding matters;
•   National Association of Government Defined Contribution Administrators
(NAGDCA) on all pension and tax matters affecting state and local government
defined contribution plans, including 401 (k)s, 457 (b) plans and 403(b) plans for
public employees;
•   The New Hampshire Association of Counties on public nursing home financing;
•   Sisters of Charity Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio consulting and federal advocacy
on urban public education and neighborhood reforms/the Obama Administration's
Promise Neighborhood initiative;
•   Shelby County and the Shelby County Regional Medical Center, Memphis,
Tennessee on health care financing issues;
•   Cuyahoga County, Cleveland, Ohio on numerous tax, health and human services
programs and projects;
•   Wisconsin Counties Association and Milwaukee County to design and implement
key tax and Medicaid projects;
•   Maricopa County, Arizona, consulting with the State of Arizona Medicaid
program;
•   California HealthCare Association in Washington on Medicaid issues;
•   California Association of Public Hospitals (CAPH) in Washington on Medicaid
issues;

 SJW

2

•   Napa County, California and the Partnership HealthPlan on federal Medicaid
Issues;
•   New Mexico Association of Counties to design and implement a Medicaid and
indigent care program;
•   California Hea1thcare Association in Washington on Medicaid issues;
•   California Association of Health Insuring Organizations (CAHIO) on Medicaid
and Medicare matters .
. During her over thirty years in Washington DC, Ms. White has worked closely
with key congressional leadership offices and congressional committees, including the
Senate Committees on Finance and on Health, Education, Labor and Pension (HELP); the
House Committees on Ways and Means, on Energy and Commerce, and on Education
and Labor; and the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations. She has extensive
experience in working with a number of Administrations and in representing clients'
interests before the White House and many of the Executive Branch departments. She
works with numerous public interest and trade groups in Washington, including the
American Hospital Association, the National Association of Public Hospitals, the
National Association of Children's' Hospitals, the National Governors' Association, the
National Association of Counties, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the U.S.
Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities.

Associate, S.R. Wojdak & Associates, 1991-1992
As an Associate in the Washington, D.C. office of a private consulting firm, Ms.
White developed a federally based health care and local government policy practice.
While at the firm, Ms. White also worked as a consultant on Medicaid, public health and
provider concerns with Los Angeles County, CA; Cuyahoga County, OH; Cook County,
IL; the New Mexico Association of Counties; and Fulton County, GA.

Associate Legislative Director, National Association of Counties, 1981-1991
From 1985 to 1991 Ms. White served as the chief lobbyist and policy expert for
tax and finance issues. She was staff director to the Association's Taxation and Finance
Steering Committee and was responsible for advising committee members in the areas of
state and local finance and federal tax policy, including tax-exempt bonds, general
revenue sharing, inter-state taxation and the state and local tax deduction.
She represented the Association's interests before Congress and the Executive
Branch; wrote testimony for members; wrote and published numerous articles and
publications for the association paper, County News; and managed all research and
special tax related projects within the association.
Ms. White was responsible for all activities of the Association related to the 1986
Tax Reform Act. She was involved in saving the state and local income and property tax
deduction and helped to form the Coalition against Double Taxation on that issue. She
lobbied successfully to scale back initial efforts to eliminate much of the access of state

 SJW

3

and local governments to tax-exempt bonds, working closely with a network of public
interest groups.
From 1981-85, Ms. White was the chief health and education lobbyist for the
National Association of Counties. She served as staff director for the Association's
Health and Education Steering Committee and worked with members to develop a
presence for county government in Washington on public health and education policy
concerns, forging positions on federal health and education policies and implementing
federal health care and education legislative strategies. Ms. White wrote testimony for
and worked with local elected and appointed officials, public hospital and nursing home
administrators and formed national coalitions to fight Medicaid cap proposals in the early
eighties.
While at the National Association of Counties, Ms. White sought and obtained
funding for the first national conference on indigent health care. The project was jointly
conceived and managed by Ms. White and the National Governors' Association. The
conference was held in San Francisco in the fall of 1983 and papers and proceedings on
the intergovernmental roles related to indigent care were published. All publications
were edited and coordinated by Ms. White and the National Governors' Association.
Project Associate, National Institute for Work and Learning, 1980-81
Developed and implemented research projects related to education, training and
economic development issues nationwide. Wrote and published a major document for
the U.S. Department of Labor entitled "Linking Employment and Training and Economic
Development Policies".
Intern, United States Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, 1980
Worked for the Committee Chairman, handling higher education and human
resources policies and legislation. Advised the Committee and conducted research,
assisted in hearings and the development of briefing materials related to President
Carter's proposed Youth Act of 1980. Also worked on legislation to reauthorize the
Higher Education programs.
Research Assistant, Federation for Community Planning, Cleveland, Ohio, 1978-80
Provided staff support to and helped to organize the community-wide Council on
Children at Risk to address program and policy concerns affecting child abuse. Wrote
proposals and conducted research on human resources and child abuse issues.
Child Welfare Social Worker, Monroe County Department of Public Welfare,
Bloomington, Indiana, 1976-1978
Managed family and child welfare cases where children were at risk of abuse 

and/or neglect. Counseled families and individuals worked with clients to obtain 

community resources for enhanced living. 


 SJW

4


EDUCATION/AFFILIATIONS
Case Western Reserve University, School of Applied Social Sciences, Cleveland Ohio,
Masters of Social Science Administration, 1980
Indiana University, School of Social Work, Bloomington, Indiana, Bachelors of Social
Work, 1976
Elected Member, Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences Dean's Visiting Committee,
Case Western Reserve University, 2008-2012, Cleveland, Ohio

PAPERS, PUBLICATIONS AND PRESENTATIONS
"Implementing Health Reform: Opportunities and Challenges", National Association of
Counties, Large Urban County Caucus, Los Angeles, CA, June 201 O.
"The Washington Report: Saving for Retirement: Federal Tax and Budget Legislation
Affecting State and Local Government Retirement Plans", National Association of
Government Defined Contribution Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference,
Austin, TX, September 2009.
Case Western Reserve University Mandel School ofApplied Social Sciences Guest
Lecturer, June 2009, Social Work, Advocacy and Lobbying at the Federal Level
"The Future of Metropolitan Hospitals and Health Systems", National Association of
Counties (NACo) Large Urban County Caucus (LUCC) Baltimore, MD, October 2008.
"The Washington Report: Saving for Retirement: Accumulation and Dissemination of
Assets: The Federal Picture" National Association of Government Defined Contribution
Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference, Baltimore, MD, September 2008.
"Overview: Federal, State and Local Government Defined Contribution Plans and
Federal Policy Developments": National Association of Government Defined
Contribution Administrators Industry Roundtable, Washington, DC, May 2008.
"Federal View, Update, Funding and Ryan White Reauthorization Concerns": World
AIDS Day, Los Angeles, California, December 1,2007.
"The Washington Report: Saving for Retirement: Accumulation and Dissemination of
Assets: The Federal Picture" National Association of Government Defined Contribution
Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference, Palm Springs, CA, September 2007.
Presentation "Federal Budget and Policy Issues Affecting Early Childhood
Development" Cuyahoga County Invest in Children Leadership Council, September
2006.

 SJW

5

"The Washington Report: Pension Protection Act of2006 and US Senate Resolution on
Retirement Savings" National Association of Defined Contribution Administrators
(NAGDCA) Annual Conference, Kansas City, MO, September 2006.
"Public Hospitals: Federal Advocacy Stepped Up" March 7, 2006, National Association
of Counties, Health and Education Steering Committee, Annual Legislative Conference,
Washington, DC.
"The Washington Report: Shaping Retirement Security" National Association of Defined
Contribution Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference, Salt Lake City, UT,
September 2004.
"Federal Developments in Medicaid/Impact on Medicaid Managed Care in California and
Nationwide" California Association of Health Insuring Organizations (CAHIO) Annual
Conference, Santa Barbara, CA September 2004.
Agency for Health Care Research and Quality (AHRQ). Participant in Conference to
discuss Tax-Exempt Hospitals.
"The Washington Report: Retirement Security and Individual Responsibility", National
Association of Defined Contribution Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference,
Nashville, TN, September 2003.
"Retirement Policy in the Post-Enron Era", National Association of Defined Contribution
Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual Conference, Scottsdale, AZ, September 2002.
"Award of Excellence for Disability Program," Program Judge, National Association of
Counties (NACo), April 2002, April 2003, May 2004.
"How a Tax Bill Becomes Law", Power Point document created by SJW and presented at
National Association of Defined Contribution Administrators (NAGDCA) Annual
Conference, September 2000.
"Medicaid and Federal/State Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) Programs", Briefing
for State Hospital Association Executives, Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, Washington DC,
February 2000.
liThe Washington Report", National Association of Government Defined Contribution
Administrators (NAGDCA), Annual Conference, September 1999.
"Federal Retirement Issues: Impact on State and Government Pension Policy", California
Public Employees' Retirement System (CaIPERS), Board of Directors, March 1999.
"Status of Federal Tax Legislation and State and Local Government Pension Policies",
National Association of Government Defined Contribution Administrators Annual
Conference, S1. Louis, Missouri, September] 995.

 SJW

6

"The Future of Public Pension Reform and State and Local Government Deferred
Compensation Programs", Government Finance Officers Association, Annual
Conference, Portland, OR, May, 1996.
"Working with Congress: Using a Grassroots Approach", National Association of
Government Defmed Contribution Administrators Annual Conference, St. Louis, MO,
September 1995.
"Status of Federal Welfare Reform and Its Potential Impact on County Government",
presented at Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners Public Forum, Cleveland, Ohio,
May 1995.
"Federal Health Reform", keynote address, Health Care Financial Management
Association Atlantic Regional Conference, Baltimore, Maryland, May 1994.
"National Health Reform and Women's Health", presented to the Women Space Options
'93 Conference, Cleveland, Ohio, October 1993.
"National Health Reform and the Restructuring of Medicaid", presented at the Federation
for Community Planning Health and Human Services Institute, Cleveland, Ohio, March
1993.
"State and Local Governments as Payors and Providers of Public Health Services",
presented to the Government Finance Officers Association Board of Directors in
Chicago, I1Iinois, November 1992.
"Medicaid and Financing County Public Health Systems", presented to a workshop
entitled, "Counties and Medicaid" at the National Association of Counties Annual
Conferenc,e in Minneapolis, Minnesota, July 1992.
"Federal Tax Policy: The Impact of Tax-Exempt Bond Restrictions on County
Government," presented to the California Public Finance Institute, January 1990, San
Francisco, California.
'
"State and Local Government Issuers: Constitutional Protection?," presented to the
National Association of State Treasurers Annual Meeting, Williamsburg, Virginia, 1988.
"The Impact of Tax Reform on States and Local Government," presented to the Missouri
County Commissioners Association, 1987, Jefferson City, Missouri.
"Federal Budget and Tax Policy and County Government," presented to the Alabama
Counties Association, March 1986, Birmingham, Alabama.
"Linking Employment and Training and Economic Development," U.S. Department of
Labor, Office of Employment and Training, 1981.

 