REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIONS
PUBLIC HEARING
November 9, 2006
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Maldonado, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler,
Gorman, Moreno, Peraica and Quigley (7)

Absent:

None (0)

Also Present:

Zelda Whitler – Undersheriff, Office of the Sheriff

Court Reporter:

Barbara Small, C.P.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Law Enforcement and Corrections of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County met pursuant to notice on Thursday, November 9, 2006, at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

276232

A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE COOK COUNTY SHERIFF IMPLEMENT
AN OFFENDER WATCH SYSTEM WITH AN AUTOMATIC E-MAIL ALERT
CAPABILITY (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed
Resolution sponsored by Joseph Mario Moreno, John H. Stroger, Jr.,
President, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley,
Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Carl R. Hansen, Roberto
Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy, Anthony J. Peraica, Mike Quigley, Peter N.
Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Bobbie L. Steele and Larry Suffredin, County
Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, 80-95% of sexual assault victims know their attacker; and
WHEREAS, 50% of sex offenders re-offend; and
WHEREAS, 45% of sexual assault victims are under 12 years of age; and

 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 9, 2006
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, at least half of convicted child molesters report that they also have
sexually assaulted an adult; and
WHEREAS, more than half of rape/sexual assaults happen within one mile of
the victim’s home; and
WHEREAS, 80% of all addresses have at least one offender within a mile; and
WHEREAS, sex offenders cross socio-economic boundaries, living in both the
richest and poorest of neighborhoods; and
WHEREAS, Illinois State statute sets a provision for a Sheriff’s office to
register offenders and notify the public; and
WHEREAS, offenders are very mobile, with 25% moving each year; and
WHEREAS, the new offender population increases by a rate of 10% annually;
and
WHEREAS, online alert systems are available, which not only allow a citizen to
look up registered offenders in their area, but to receive an email alert, followed
by a postcard when a registered sex offender moves to within one mile of
sensitive addresses, such as a home, school, park, etc.; and
WHEREAS, a web-based offender watch system will also permit one to
conduct address searches that will create a map showing all offenders within
one mile of the address, as well as a geographic risk assessment of the
offenders; and
WHEREAS, this program will also allow for city and name searches, as well as
provide detailed descriptions on offenders including: name, aliases, physical
description, photograph, nature of conviction and a map of the offender’s
address; and
WHEREAS, this program is an important tool that will enable one to attain this
necessary knowledge to help keep our children and families safe and at a
relatively low cost; and
WHEREAS, it is in the interest of everyone to help protect our children from
this seemingly ever increasing danger.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby request that the Cook County Sheriff’s web site
implement an Offender Watch system with an automatic email alert capability,
which will assist in informing our residents where sexual offenders reside and
thereby giving them, in a timely manner, the information they need to protect
their families and reduce the chance of future victimization.

 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 9, 2006
PAGE 3

*Referred to the Committee on Law Enforcement and Corrections on
March 1, 2006.
Approved as amended on September 14, 2006.
Withdrawn from the agenda on September 19, 2006.
Chairman Maldonado stated that Item 276232, which was approved at the September 14, 2006 Law
Enforcement and Corrections meeting, was withdrawn at the September 19, 2006 Board Meeting in
order that this public hearing could be held.
Commissioner Moreno stated that some of the public speakers will be sharing valuable experience
which they possess in implementing victim alert systems.
Zelda Whitler, Undersheriff, Office of the Sheriff, delivered the following remarks: While the concept
behind this Ordinance is admirable, she is uncertain whether the Sheriff’s Office has the necessary
funds to commit to implement this Ordinance, given the budget cuts which the Sheriff’s Office will
sustain this year. Another concern is that the information that will be utilized in the implementation of
this Ordinance will be obtained from the Illinois State Police, and may be inaccurate. Additionally, this
Ordinance may create liability for the County. She would like to examine this Ordinance more closely
to determine how the Sheriff’s Office could have greater control. Her office has met with Commissioner
Moreno’s office as well as with the State’s Attorney’s Office and with Cathy Maras-O’Leary. Currently,
the Sheriff’s Office accesses data from the Illinois State Police and provides a website where a citizen
can determine which registered sex offenders live in their area. The State’s Attorney’s Office also has
a victim alert program. She would like to involve more people to determine the greater impact of this
Ordinance.
Chairman Maldonado inquired what the cost of this program would be.
Ms. Whitler replied: She cannot provide that information at this time. However, the State’s Attorney’s
victim notification program notifies 17,000 victims and costs $250,000. The majority of these victims
prefer to be notified by phone; also, not everyone has access to e-mail.
Commissioner Butler voiced his concern that people who committed lesser offenses or unwisely plea
bargained would be unfairly stigmatized by this Ordinance. He read part of a letter submitted by Jo
Anne Smith, LCSW, and requested that it be entered into the record. (See attachment.)
Commissioner Moreno stated: Software does exist that would enable the County to alert victims. Two
of the main issues are timeliness and accuracy. The implementation of this Ordinance would require a
collective effort of all the police departments in Cook County supervised by the Sheriff’s Office in
conjunction with the State’s Attorney’s Office. Of particular importance would be the input of those
organizations that already have a victim alert system in place.
Chairman Maldonado asked the Secretary to the Board to call on the following registered public
speakers:

 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 9, 2006
PAGE 4
1) Cara Smith – Policy Director, Illinois Attorney General’s Office
2) Shauna Boliker – Chief, Sex Crimes Division, Cook County State’s Attorneys Office
3) Trevor Peterson – Director of Government Relations, Chicago Children’s Advocacy Center
4) George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen
Commissioner Moreno moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Butler.
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Law Enforcement and
Corrections

____________________________
Roberto Maldonado, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Michelle Harris, Secretary

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

The

 