 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Wednesday, November 13, 2013 9:45 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore,
Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (14)

Absent: Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Gainer and Murphy (3)
Also Present: Michael W. Lewis, Appointee to the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation Authority
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance
with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

13-2046

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article 111, Real
Estate Transfer Tax, Section 74-101 De?nitions of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 74-101. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Bene?cial interest in real property includes, but is not limited to:

(1) The bene?cial interest in an Illinois land trust;

(2) The lessee interest in a ground lease (including any interest of lessee in the related improvements) that
provides for a term of 30 or more years when all options to renew or extend are included, whether or
not any portion of the term has expired; or

Controlling interest means:

(1) Fifty percent or more of the combined voting power or fair market value of all ownership
interests or bene?cial interests in a real estate entity, whether the interests are owned by one or

by several persons; or

(2) The right of one or of several persons to receive at the time of any distribution 50 percent or
more of the income or pro?ts of a real estate entity.

Real Estate entity means any person (other than an Illinois land trust) including, but not limited to, any
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust, or single or multi-tiered entity, or any other entity that
exists or acts substantially for the purpose of holding, directly or indirectly, title to or bene?cial interest in real
property leested?rH?theGeHn?ty whether for personal use, the production of rental income, or investment. It shall
be presumed, unless proven otherwise, that an entity is a real estate entity if it owns, directly or indirectly, real
property leeatedeithheGeumy having a fair market value greater than 75 percent of the total fair market value of
all the entity?s assets (determined without deduction for any mortgage, lien or encumbrance).

Recorder or Recorder of Deeds means the County Recorder of Deeds or the County Registrar of
Titles.

Transfer price means the consideration furnished for the transfer of title to, or bene?cial interest in, real
property, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits and property, determined
without any deduction for mortgages, liens or encumbrances, and speci?cally including the amount of any
indebtedness or obligation cancelled or discharged in connection with the transfer. In the case where the controlling
interest in a real estate entity is transferred, and the real estate entity holds assets in addition to title to or bene?cial
interest in real property located in the city, the term "transfer price" means only that portion of the consideration
attributable to the transfer of such real property or such bene?cial interest.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee by the Board of
Commissioners on 10/23/2013.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Suffredin, Butler, Collins, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Tobolski (14)

Absent: Vice Chairman Fritchey, Gainer, Murphy (3)

Page 2 of 4

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, to take up the
Supplemental Agenda. The motion carried.

13-2239

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Appointee: Michael W. Lewis

Position: Director

Department/Board/Commission: Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation Authority
Effective date: Immediate

Expiration date: 3/31/2018

Legislative History: Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee by the Board of
Commissioners on 1 1/8/2013.

Chairman Suffredin requested that Michael W. Lewis? Af?davit be entered into the record.

Mr. Lewis delivered remarks as to his quali?cations for and interest in the position of Director on the Board of
Directors of the Regional Transportation Authority.

A motion was made by Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this Appointment be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Suffredin, Butler, Collins, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Tobolski (14)

Absent: Vice Chairman Fritchey, Gainer, Murphy (3)
ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
passed and the meeting was adjourned.

Page 3 of 4

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 13-2046 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-2239 Recommended for Approval

Respectfully submitted,

4? (Ml/w 

Chairman 1 \l Sela etary

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s website on the Video Page at


Page 4 of 4

 

 

 

Cook County
Office, Board or Commission Affidavit

Please ?ll out this application completely. Incomplete af?davits will not be considered for
appointment. Please also submit your resume.

Please email the completed af?davit to Patrick Carey, Special Assistant for Governmental and
Legislative Affairs at patrick.carey@cookcountyil.gov and Brian Miller, Of?ce of Commissioner
Larry Suffredin at bmiller@suffredin.orq.

APPLICANT INFORMATION

Which of?ce/board/commission
are you applying for?

Last

Name Lew CS First \olme?k MI. 

Current A partm ent 

St I .
Adgfess 9? SQ C9 \ux r. UnIt 

City Mp} 64?; State a . ZIP 60%(0?

E-mail

Phone ?ogWDLuo Address 935%; 

How Ion have ou lived at our current address?

9 v? 
Do you have multiple residences in Cook County? YES NO El
If yes, please list your other

addresses and which address
is your primary address:

APPOINTMENT INFORMATION

Have you received a Homeowner?s Property Tax Exemption at any other
address other than your primary address during the current tax year?

Is your primary residence located within the district of the of?ce, board,
or commission that you are applying for?

Have you reviewed the legal requirements for the appointment that you
. are seeking?

I Do you ful?ll the legal requirements for the appointment that you are
seeking?

Do you possess any conflicts of interest that would prevent you from
adequately representing the interests of the of?ce, board or commission
that you are applying for?

Will you notify the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
and the Chairman of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners if there is a

change to any of the statements set forth in this instrument?

Under penalties of perjury, I state that, to the best of my knowledge, the information

contained in this application is true, correct and complete.

Applicant?s Name: Wife/(Mam W18

Applicant?s Signature:

YES 

YES Ki

YES 



NOEL

Nol:l



NOD

NOE

NOD

 

Date:

 

\l/lsl \3

Subscribed and sworn before me this 1'3 Ht day of WW 61a

 

  
 
 
  

 

Notary Signature: M4. WM

MY COMM

  


OFFICIAL SEAL
ANN FRANCES SCHAFFER .
NOTARY STATE or 

nadir express 3.152014 3

 

 

 

. Notary Stamp




.u ?nu-{11?
.

