STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 15, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member
of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Ellen M.
Strizak acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting. Member Hade chaired the meeting. Member Hade
moved to immediately hear the oral argument scheduled in Case No. S-CA-07-085, International
Association of Fire Fighters, Local 95/Village of Oak Park. Members Coli and Washington agreed. The
parties to the case presented oral argument to the Board.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 11, 2009

At the conclusion of the oral argument, Member Hade called for approval of the minutes of the August
11, 2009 meeting. Member Coli moved to approve the minutes with certain modifications thereto.
Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Member Hade asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from August 1 through August 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the
Board and the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-07-085
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 95/Village of Oak Park

Member Hade moved to hold this case so as to further consider and discuss the earlier presented oral
argument. Members Coli and Washington agreed.
2.
Case No. S-RC-09-084
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Member Hade called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-UC-08-013
City of North Chicago/North Chicago Fire Fighters Association, International Association
of Fire Fighters, Local 3271
Member Hade called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board decline to review ALJ Clifford's determination that the City's
unit clarification petition to exclude a disputed employee from the unit was untimely filed, as neither
party filed exceptions thereto. He further recommended upholding the ALJ's determination that the
disputed title or position was not included in existing bargaining unit. After a discussion of the merits,
Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-RC-08-112
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case No. S-RC-09-158
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Member Hade called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-08-139
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/Village of Dolton
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case Nos. S-UC-09-142, S-UC-09-144, S-UC-09-176, and S-UC-09-178
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Case Nos. S-UC-09-146 and S-UC-09-148
Illinois State Employees Association, Laborers International Union, Local 2002/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Member Hade called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-RC-09-065
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/County of McHenry
Member Hade called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
8.
Case No. S-CB-08-006
City of Pekin/Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council
Member Hade called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on August 3,
2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeal,
and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to uphold the executive director's order. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Staff distributed the fiscal report, which the Board reviewed and discussed. After a short discussion, the
Board questioned whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this
time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Hade called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of October, 2009.
2

 