Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee
Wednesday, June 7, 2017

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-3262
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board
of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

COOK
COUNTY
MANAGEMENT

DEPARTMENT

OF

HOMELAND

SECURITY

AND

EMERGENCY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES, Article II. COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, Section 26-32, 26-33 and 26-35 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 26-32. - Executive Director .

(a)

The Executive Director of the DHSEM shall be appointed by the President of the County Board of
Commissioners and shall serve until removed by the President.

Page 1 of 4

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 7, 2017

(b)

The Executive Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training
and operation of the DHSEM, subject to the direction and control of the President and the Chief of
the Bureau of Administration, including the preparation by the DHSEM of an emergency operations
plan consistent with the National Incident Management System (NIMS), as adopted by Resolution
No. 05-R-464.

(c)

The Executive Director shall possess all powers and duties set forth for the Executive Director by
statute and in this Ordinance, including the authority to designate emergency vehicles as provided
in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-215.

(d)

In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the Executive Director, the
President or any person designated by him or her shall be and act as Executive Director until a new
appointment is made as provided in this article.

Sec. 26-33. - Functions.

(a)

The DHSEM shall perform such functions within the County as shall be prescribed in and by the
County's Emergency Operations Plan and the State Emergency Operations Plan and emergency
management program prepared by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA), and such
orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by IEMA and the Governor.

(b)

As used herein, the terms "emergency management agency" and "emergency services and disaster
agency" are equivalent. The DHSEM shall serve as the mandated emergency management agency
for all political subdivisions within the County except those areas served by emergency
management agencies which have been accredited by IEMA. All political subdivisions served by
the DHSEM shall be responsible for engaging in emergency preparedness and response activities
within their jurisdictions. Political subdivisions which maintain a nonmandated emergency services
and disaster agency not accredited by the IEMA may apply to DHSEM for certification, in which
case each such political subdivision shall biennially submit an emergency operations plan to
DHSEM as provided in Title 29 of the Illinois Administrative Code, Part 301, Political Subdivision
Emergency and Disaster Service Agencies. Each municipality that does not maintain an emergency
services and disaster agency shall designate a liaison officer to facilitate the cooperation and
protection of that municipal corporation with DHSEM, in accordance with Section 10 of the IEMA
Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).

(c)

The DHSEM shall perform or coordinate the performance of such duties as may be required of the
County pursuant to any Mutual Aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality, or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided in Section 13 of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/13).

(d)

In accordance with Chapter 34, Section 34-141 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, the The
Executive Director, in consultation with the Chief Procurement Officer and utilizing a competitive

Page 2 of 4

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 7, 2017

procurement process approved by the County's Code when practicable, shall be authorized to
request the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contracts for the availability of
emergency equipment or supplies which may be required in the event of an emergency or disaster.
Except as approved by the Board, such contracts shall not commit the County to make payment in
excess of $25,000 unless such equipment or supplies are purchased under the emergency purchase
authority set forth in Section 26-39 of this Ordinance.
***

Sec. 26-35. - Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations .

(a)

Mutual Aid, Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements. The Executive Director of the
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (DHSEM) may negotiate Mutual
Aid Agreements and Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements with other political subdivisions
and taxing districts of the State as well as with nongovernmental organizations, provided such
agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Management
Program. Negotiated Mutual Aid Agreements, Intergovernmental Agreements or Interagency
Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of execution by the Executive
Director. Where applicable, said agreements shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the
County’s Code of Ordinances or the procurement standards required under the funding grant
agreement, whichever standards are more restrictive.

(b)

Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum
Development. The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute
agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with other political subdivisions or
governmental units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of
procuring and providing training and curriculum development for first responder agencies and other
stakeholders throughout Cook County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing
indemnification. Where applicable, Said said agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs)
shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the County’s Code of Ordinances or the
procurement standards required under the funding grant agreement, whichever standards are more
restrictive.
Said agreements or MOUs agreements shall not require additional authorization from
the County Board when limited to the purpose of procuring and/or providing training and/or
curriculum development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders unless said agreement
or MOU is greater than $150,000.

(c)

Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership
Opportunities. In order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate
effective and efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director shall
be authorized to negotiate and execute Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) MOUs or agreements
with other political subdivisions, governmental units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups and
private parties, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties thereto with respect to preparedness and
response activities within Cook County, without further approval by the County Board. These

Page 3 of 4

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

June 7, 2017

agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) MOUs shall not bind Cook County to
indemnification provisions, nor shall such Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) MOUs obligate
Cook County to make any direct payments to a third party from County corporate or grant funds.
Said agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) MOUs may not require a separate
Mutual Aid Agreement, Intergovernmental Agreement or Interagency Agreements; however, should
the agreement or Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) MOU require the County to indemnify the
other party County Board authorization will be required in advance of execution.
(d)

[Records to be maintained.] The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all
agreements, or Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) MOUs entered into pursuant to the authority
afforded in subsection (b) and (c) and make available to the President or the Cook County Board of
Commissioners a quarterly report listing the various agreements or Memoranda of Understanding
(MOUs) MOUs entered into pursuant to this authority at their request.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

5/10/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Homeland Security and Emergen

Secretary
Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice-Chairman: Gainer
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 