 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing Community Development Committee
Wednesday, September 14, 2016 9:45 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordancewith Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

2. Patricia Velascos, Healthy Communities Cook County (HC3) Coalition
3. Rosa Romero, Healthy Communities Cook County (HC3) Coalition

4. Tyree Johnson, Healthy Communities Cook County (HC3) Coalition

16-5197
CONIMITTEE MJNUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 08/03/2016
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to approve
1:02:21?. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

16-4392
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, and ROBERT STEELE, 
PRECKWINKLE (President), JOHN P. DALEY, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY
BUTLER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY. STANLEY MOORE. SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O.
SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI. DEBORAH SIMS. LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE ANIENDMENT

ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS DIRECT
ACCESS PROGRAM TO SUPPORT A HEALTHY COOK COUNTY WORKFORCE.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VII, Sec. 38?157 through 38-162 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as
follows:

COOK COUNTY DIRECT ACCESS PROGRAM
Sec. 38-157. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Ordinance Establishing a Cook County Health and
Hospitals System direct access program."

Sec. 38-158. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Cook County Health and Hospitals System also referred to as means the public health system
comprised of the facilities at, and the services provided by or through, the Ambulatory and Community
Health Network, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, Community Triage Center, Cook County
Department of Public Health, Provident Hospital of Cook County, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center,
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, (collectively, the Facilities") and the CountyCare
Health Plan.

County means the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of Illinois.

County Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.

Direct Access Program means the new program established by to improve the coordination of care
for uninsured residents of Cook County, herein known as ?the program.? may identify an

alternative name upon implementation of the program.

Medical home means a health care facility responsible for the provision and coordination of all needed
health care services for a patient.

Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing a Cook County Health and Hospitals System direct access
program.

Primary Care Provider means an Illinois licensed independent practitioner practicing at a patient?s
medical home who is the primary point of contact and provider of health care services for that patient.

Uninsured means all uninsured residents of Cook County who earn up to 200% of the Federal Poverty
Level, who are not otherwise eligible for public health insurance.

Sec. 38-159. Establishing a direct access program.

The Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (herein referred to as
CEO), or his/her designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to establish a direct access program to
ensure uninsured residents of Cook County have access to quality health care:

1. Leveraging existing charity care program.
Building on the infrastructure and operations systems of the CountyCare Health Plan to ensure
proper care coordination, provider relations, and data analytics.

3. Maximizing the community partnerships and linkages established over the past 180 years of service
to the residents of Cook County.

Sec. 38-160. Elements of the Direct Access Program.

1. A centralized system of administration.
2. Community-based outreach, enrollment and enrollee support.

A single enrollment application that limits the number and type of documents as much as possible
while still maintaining program integrity.

A membership card indicating enrollment in the program.

Assignment of a medical home and primary care provider.

A predictable and affordable cost structure for services provided by 

An electronic information system that facilitates care coordination and provides the medical home
access to enrollment status, contact info, primary care provider and other health utilization data.





Sec. 38-161. Eligibility.

All uninsured residents of Cook County who earn up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Level, who are not
otherwise eligible for public health insurance shall be eligible for the program.

Sec. 38-162. Implementation.
Implementation of the program shall start as soon as is practical with the goal of launching the program

on December I, 2016 but no later than June 1, 2017. Initially, program enrollees will only be able to
access facilities and providers through the program.

Sec. 38-163. Enrollee Feedback and Engagement.

shall facilitate regular public forums with enrollees utilizing the program. Such forums shall
allow enrollees the opportunity to provide feedback on the implementation of the program, identify
ongoing needs and gaps in existing program services, and convey their level of customer satisfaction.
shall notify all current enrollees of the time and location of public forums and encourage their
participation. Other processes such as surveys and focus groups may be used in addition to the public
forums.

Sec. 38-164. Reporting Requirement.

The Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System may provide quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the direct access program to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to recommend
for approval as amended item 16-4392. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

Respectfully submitted,


7 gas 25. 2275:;

Chairman Secretary

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

