A SI]MMARY OF REPORTS OF TITE
COMIVIITTEE ON FINAI\CE
TO BE STJBMITTED TO THE CITY COT]NCIL
AT TIIE MEETING OF JANUARY 13,2011
10:00 A.M.
CITY COTJNCIL CHAMBER

crry c$åfrF/fb?v,,,,,_
20lt Ji¡H tZ pH
Z: SS

'ätriîiËduïo

A communication recommending the appointment of Darci M. O'Connell as a member of
Special Service AreaNumber29,the West Town Commission.
A communication recommending the appointnent of John H. Paige as a member of
Speciat Service AreaNumber 33, the Wicker Pa¡k and Buckfown Commission.
A communication recommending the appointnent of Samuel S. Ma¡ts as a member of
Special Service Area Number 33, the Wicker Park and Bucktown Commission.
A communication recommending the re-appointrnent of Laura A. Weathered as a
member of Special Service AreaNumber 33, the Wicker Park and Buckfown
Commission.

An ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of the Department of Community
Development to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Chicago Transit Authority regarding the Cermalc/Chinatown Station.
A communication transmitting a list of cases in which judgments or settlements were
entered into for the month of November,2010.
An ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of the Department of Zoning and Land Use
Planning to enter into and execute an lntergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago
Park District for the redevelopment of Kiwanis Park.
An ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of the Department of Zoning and Land Use
Planning to enter into and execute an amended Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Chicago Pa¡k District for the redevelopment of Ping Tom Memorial Park, Park Number
481.

Twenty-one (21) ordinances authorizing the issuance of all necessary permits free
charge.
10.

of

Five (5) orders authorizing the waiver of a special event raffle license fee.
One (1) order authorizing the cancellation of wa¡rants for collection for inspection,
installation and permit fees.

ll.

Refrigeration Inspection Fee (l)

t2.

Three (3) orders authorizing the cancellation of compensation fees for grants of privilege
for the use of the public way.

13.

One

A.

(l)

order authonzingone
(Tag Day) permits.

(l) application for City of Chicago Cha¡itable Solicitation

Brightstar of Chicago
January

16,20ll

Citywide

t4.

15.

Two (2) orders authorizing the payment of hospital and medical expenses of Police
Officers and Fire Fighters injured in the line of duty.

An order authorizing the payment of various small claims against the City of Chicago.

 of Chicago.

16.

An order denying the payment of various small claims against the City

17.

An order authorizing the payment of various Condominium Refuse Rebate claims against
the City of Chicago.

18.

An order denying the payment of various Condominium Refuse Rebate claims against the
City of Chicago.

19.

An order authorizing the payment of senior citizen rebate sewer claims.

 