REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
September 15, 2003
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Commissioners Gorman, Hansen, Murphy and Quigley (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin and Commissioner Maldonado (2)

Also
Present:

Helen Haynes, State's Attorney's Office; Gwendolyn Clements, Gwendolyn Clemons,
Director of Planning and Development; Thomas Bulwan, Clingan Steel.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Monday, September 15, 2003 at the hour of 9:30 AM
in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

261211

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated August 12, 2003:
respectfully request approval of a HOME Investment Partnerships Program Grant to be
used for the rehabilitation of approximately 15 single-family homes for low and very low
income households in the following municipalities: Glenwood, Hazel Crest, Homewood,
Lemont, Matteson, Midlothian, Oak Forest, Posen, Sauk Village and Tinley Park. The
project complies with the HOME Program regulations and furthers the goals of the FiveYear Consolidated Community Development Plan (approved by U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development on October 17, 2000).
The HOME Program Grant of $800,000.00 will be made to Chicago Southland
Development, Inc., (CSDI). Approval of this grant will enable CSDI to continue their
owner occupied single-family rehabilitation program. Funds are provided to
homeowners through a deferred loan to rehabilitate their properties. Permanent liens
are placed on the properties for the amount of the rehabilitation by Chicago Southland
Development, Inc. After rehabilitation is completed, CSDI then assigns the Note,
Owner’s Participation Agreement, and Junior Mortgage to Cook County. The Cook
County HOME Program will recapture funds expended on the projects when these
homes are sold, transferred, or otherwise alienated and title is transferred.

 Respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Chief Administrative Officer
of the County of Cook, or his designee, be authorized to execute on behalf of the County
of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein,
including, but not limited to the Subgrantee Agreement and any modifications thereto.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee on 9/16/03
Chairman Collins called on Gwendolyn Clemens to brief the Commissioners on the item.
Gwendolyn Clemens, Director, Planning and Development stated that Chicago Southland
Development Incorporated will be rehabbing 15 single family homes for residents in Glenwood,
Hazel Crest, Homewood, Lemont, Matteson, Midlothian, Posen, Sauk Village, Oak Forest and
Tinley Park over the next year.
Commissioner Hansen, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved Approval of
Communication No. 261211. The motion carried.
261216

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated August 7, 2003.
Re:

KJBB Properties, LLC
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Company’s application for Class
6b property tax incentive for you consideration.
KJBB Properties, LLC requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month
abandonment rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that
the company can complete it application to the Assessor of Cook County within the 90
day period from purchase of the property.
Submitting the company application for Class 6b, the Resolution of the Village of Orland
Park, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b which provides an applicant a reduction in the
assessment level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from KJBB Properties, LLC and the Resolutions from Orland Park for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 10455-61 West 163rd Place and the adjacent
vacant lot, Orland Park, Cook County, Illinois, Property Index Numbers 27-20-401-026
and 27-20-401-025; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and

 WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 12 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances
are present.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to the company for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 10455-61 West 163rd Place, Orland Park, Cook County,
Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee on 9/16/03
Commissioner Hansen stated that at the last meeting the committee was to receive some
indication of the County’s success in connection with the generations of jobs that are mentioned
in each of the items.
Gwendolyn Clemens stated that the Department of Planning and Development prepared a
report and will distribute it today.
Gwendolyn Clemens walked the Commissioners through the report that was passed out today.
Commissioner Hansen asked if Gwendolyn Clemens would like to make any observation on the
difference in results for the three incentives.
Gwendolyn Clemens stated that the incentives that are pending, the Office of Planning and
Development is waiting for the Assessors Office to approve them and move forward. Once they
have been approved the Office of Planning and Development will be able to determine the
status. Further, Ms. Clemens stated that the source that was used was both the Assessors data
and a telephone survey.
Commissioner Hansen suggested that all of the Commissioners should receive a copy of the
Staff Report for the Property Tax Incentives Program.
Gwendolyn Clemens stated she would make sure that each Commissioner receives a copy of
the report.
Commissioner Hansen asked why is the Assessors Office taking so long to complete and
submit the needed information.
Ms. Clemens stated that it’s still being processed. She stated that she would meet with the
Assessors Office to see what is the delay.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved Approval of
Communication No. 261216. The motion carried.
261217

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated August 12, 2003.

 Re:

Robert S. Clingan
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Company’s application for Class
6b property tax incentive for you consideration.
Robert S. Clingan requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month
abandonment rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that
Mr. Clingan can complete the application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting Mr. Clingan’s application for Class 6b, the Resolution of the Village of Elk
Grove Village, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your
information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Robert S. Clingan and the Resolution from Elk Grove Village, for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 2525 Arthur Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Numbers 08-35-404-056 and 08-35-404-057; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 13 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances
are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to Robert S. Clingan for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 2525 Arthur Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook
County, Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee on 9/16/03
Chairman Collins asked if a representative with Clingan Steel, Inc., could address the
Commissioners.
Thomas Bulwan, Clingan Steel, Inc., stated that Clingan Steel is a steel service center, they
process steel coils. At this time Clingan Steel is in the process of purchasing a building in Elk

 Grove Village. Currently the company is operating out of two plants: Melrose Park and
Hammond, Indiana. They are planning to consolidate the two plants and relocate to Cook
County.
Chairman Collins asked for the number of jobs they are anticipating.
Thomas Bulwan stated that they currently have 45 jobs in Melrose Park plant and 20 jobs in
Hammond, Indiana plant; and within the next ten years five more jobs will be generated.
Commissioner Hansen asked if the plants would be consolidated.
Thomas Bulwan responded that both plants would be moving to the Elk Grove Village plant.
261218

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated August 21, 2003.
Re:

Proposed Resolution and Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
(CEDS) 2002-2003

submitting the proposed Resolution of the Board of Cook County Commissioners, the
CEDS report, and the Resolution of the Cook County Economic Development Advisory
Committee for your review, consideration and approval.
This CEDS report is required by the Economic Development Administration (EDA) of
the U.S. Department of Commerce to entitle Cook County, Chicago and the suburbs to
apply for federal EDA funding for economic development projects. This report must be
submitted on an annual basis.
Since 1997, EDA has funded over $1.7 million for projects in Chicago and Cook
County. These federal funds have been combined with local match to realize $2.8
million of economic development investment.
Respectfully request the approval of your Honorable Body of the Resolution endorsing
the CEDS report.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Board of Cook County Commissioners
Approving the
2002-2003 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS)
WHEREAS, we, the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as the duly elected body
governing Cook County, have received and reviewed the 2002-2003 Comprehensive
Economic Development Strategy and the Resolution of the Cook County Economic
Development Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, we have found the CEDS to fulfill its function to report on the previous
year's economic activities and effectiveness, to identify changes and trends in the
region's economic conditions, and to present the economic development goals and
activities for the coming year; and

 WHEREAS, the CEDS meets the requirements of the Economic Development
Administration (EDA) to qualify Cook County, Chicago and suburban jurisdictions within
its boundaries as eligible to apply for EDA funding of economic development projects.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Board of Cook County Commissioners
does hereby approve this 2002-2003 CEDS for submittal to EDA.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee on 9/16/03
Commissioner Quigley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved Approval of
Communication Nos. 261217 and 261218. The motion carried.
Commissioner Hansen, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved to Receive and File
the Staff report for the Property Tax Incentive Program from the Office of Planning and
Development. The motion carried.
Commissioner Murphy moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Quigley. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Earlean Collins, Chairman

Attest:

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Michelle Harris, Secretary

 