REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS

February 1, 2012

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also
Present:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Beavers, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (12)

Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Steele and Tobolski (5)

Stanley Rakestraw, Co?Founder, Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of SCR
Medical Transportation; Juan Calixto, Adjunct Faculty, North Park University

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, February I, 2012 at the hour of 9:15 AM. in the
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

31631-1?2

METRA BOARD OF DIRECTORS (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting a Communication
dated January 18, 2012 from Toni Preckwinkle, President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Mr. Stanley Rakestraw to the Metra Board of
Directors for a term to begin immediately and to expire on March 31, 2012. Mr.
Rakestraw will fill the vacancy of Mr. Willis E. Pennington, Jr.

I submit this communication for your approval.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental on January 18,
2012.

Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved Approval of
Communication No. 316312 as amended. The motion carried.

3163l2?

COOK COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting a
Communication dated January 18, 2012 from Toni Preckwinkle, President, Cook County
Board of Commissioners.

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Ms. Maribeth Vander Weele to the Cook County
Board of Ethics for a term to begin immediately and to expire November 1, 2012. Mrs.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

FEBRUARY 1,2012
PAGEZ

Vander Weele will fill the vacancy of Mr. John J. Pikarski, Jr.
I submit this communication for your approval.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental on January 18,
2012.

Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved Approval of
Communication No. 316312. The motion carried.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved Approval of
Communication No. 316312 as amended. The motion carried.

3l63l?1?

COOK COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS (REAPPOINTMENT). Transmitting a
Communication dated January 18, 2012 from Toni Preckwinkle, President, Cook County
Board of Commissioners.

Please be advised that I hereby reappoint Mr. Juan Calixto to the Cook County Board of
Ethics for a term to begin immediately and to expire November 1, 2015.

I submit this communication for your approval.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental on January 18,
2012.

Vice Chairman Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 316318 as amended. The motion carried.

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1 . George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

FEBRUARY 1, 2012
PAGE 3

Chairman Suffredin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Beavers. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 316312 Approved as Amended
Communication Number 3 63 3 Approved as Amended
Communication Number 316318 Approved as Amended

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

?w

Larry Suffred?in, Chairman 

 

Zeus/x

DeLeon, Secretary

 

*An audio recording ofthis meeting is available in the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 18 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

Stanley C. Rakestraw

Stanley C. Rakestraw is co-founder, Vice President and Chief Operating
Of?cer of SCR Medical Transportation. His mission is to ?take care of the
staff and the staff will take care of the customers and the bottom line will
take care of itself.? This philosophy is a very signi?cant factor in 
25 years of successful operation. Mr. Stanley C. Rakestraw, while he is an
experienced and skilled ?nancial manager, is more interested in service and
customer satisfaction, staff and intellectual asset development and the good
reputation of SCR than he is in mere pro?t. In fact, he admits that some of
the competition may be able to boast of a better pro?t margin, but he is
certain that none of the competition has the same level of customer service
and satisfaction, the same high standards of service, cleanliness of its ?eet,
respect for the customers, nor the happy and productive staff that SCR has.
SCR is in the business for the long haul, not the quick buck. The
philosophies, shared by the owners of SCR, have greatly contributed to the
company?s excellent reputation with its staff, its customers and the industry in general.

 

Brought up in the South with a respect for his elders and for peOple in general, Stan Rakestraw
has been working since he was 12 years old, driven and committed to autograph everything he
does with excellence. Over the years, through extended and continuing formal education and
through his more than 30 years? experience as a manager in healthcare and transportation, he has
learned how to motivate others to share his standards and encourage them to strive for the same
levels of quality and service that he espouses. ?I?ve found that the formula is always the same,?
he says. ?You treat people right, you let them know what you expect, you set an example through
your own attitude and how you conduct yourself and it generally will produce what you?re
looking for in them.?

All of this is re?ected in the close to 700 employees and 300 strong ?eet of vehicles at SCR and
the service they deliver to the public in and around Chicago.

A hands-on executive, Mr. Rakestraw has an open door policy towards customers who
can always reach him directly with complaints, compliments or the common greeting. This is a
carry?over ?om his years as manager of a nursing home where he prided himself on knowing
every patient by name and making himself accessible to all the residents. Since co-founding
SCR with his wife, Pamela Rakestraw, President, in 1986, he has always felt that there should be
direct contact between customers and the company?s owners. The hands-on approach
extends to all the internal working of the company. For example, when it came time to convert
systems over to computerized reservations and dispatching, Mr. Rakestraw underwent
instruction in all the new systems and was personally involved in making the switch. If he is
going to ask his staff to do something, he wants to make sure it is something he can do himself.

Ed ucation

Mr. Rakestraw studied at Tennessee State University in Nashville, Tennessee, and his education
has continued throughout his long and successful career. He attended the University of Illinois
and Roosevelt where he took graduate courses and as recently as 2003 he completed further

courses at the Northwestern University?s Kellogg School of Management, as a participant in its
Minority Director Development program. Mr. Rakestraw is licensed as a Nursing Home
Administrator in the State of Illinois and is a Certi?ed Passenger Assistance Technician.

Experience

The earlier part of Mr. Rakestraw?s career was spent in a series of increasingly responsible
positions including Financial Auditor for a government economic development of?ce and
Internal Auditor for a major Chicago area hospital. He developed skills which enabled him to
increase ?nancial ef?ciency and viability, including in one company reducing overhead costs
due to mismanagement by 25% while improving the level of service delivery of the institution.

Mr. Rakestraw went on to administrate nursing homes ranging from 65 to 245 beds, improving
the quality of patient care while maintaining pro?t margins. His responsibilities in this role
ranged ?om implementing appropriate ?nancial controls to developing training programs and
hiring physician staff. In the three instances where he held this role, he maintained an annual
census in excess of 95% for nursing home occupancy.

Prior to founding SCR, Mr. Rakestraw was the principal in a health care consulting ?rm where
he assisted clients in the development and implementation of management systems, providing
marketing support, trouble-shooting, recruitment, as well as developing policies and procedures
for key aspects of his clients? operations. During this period, Mr. Rakestraw demonstrated his
talent as a turnaround consultant. As a result of his skills and aptitudes, a major client
experienced a reversal of a business downturn and grossed $800,000 in revenues during the ?rst
two years of employing Mr. Rakestraw?s services.

Wider Involvement

Mr. Rakestraw prides himself on keeping abreast of national trends and has brought in and
overseen numerous transportation experts in various ?elds to partner with and ensure that SCR is
at the forefront of the industry?s best practices. Mr. Rakestraw has also led resolve to be
at the forefront of industry relevant emerging technology.

Mr. Rakestraw?s involvement in helping the physically and mentally challenged has also led him
to take active roles in national organizations. He is on the Board of Directors of the leading
industry group, the Taxicab, Limousine and Paratransit Association (TLPA) and has served for
many years on the Board of Directors of Gateway International. In 2008 Mr. Rakestraw was
recognized by the TLPA for his services to the organization while sitting on the board of
directors.

Recognitions

In 2011 The Illinois Black Chamber of Commerce recognized Mr. Stanley Rakestraw and his
wife with the Outstanding Business of the Year award. SCR has been honored with several
business awards including the Bank of America Small Business Award in 1996. The Taxicab,
Limousine and Paratransit Association (TLPA) named SCR Paratransit Operator of the Year in
2004. They also named SCR driver, Larry Lewis, Paratransit Driver of the Year in 2005 and

Arthur Thomas for the year 2010. SCR was awarded the Chatham Business of the Year award in
2004 and most recently the 2010 Excellence in Business Leadership Award.

The Future

In the last 18 months or so, SCR has grown from about 245 to close to 700 employees and a ?eet
of 300 vehicles.

over the next ?ve years the goal is to duplicate its current local operations in other
municipalities to go national and provide a similar local type service in other areas throughout
the country. Already, the company has taken signi?cant and successful steps in that direction,
spearheaded by Mr. Rakestraw and his ambitions.

 
  

- VANDERWEELE 

Jntegn?ry and Security Services

Maribeth Vander \Xleele is President of the Vander Weele Group.? a Chicago corporate investigations
firm that specializes in preventing and investigating complex fraud schemes such as embezzlement.
diversion of product, insider dealing, procurement fraud, and other matters involving employee and
vendor misconduct. A Certified Protection Professional and Certi?ed Inspector General, she has consulted
onsite in China, Malaysia, Singapore, Mexico, and the United States and remotely in Chile, Europe and the
Middle East.

Maribeth is a results-oriented professional known for her ability to drive strategic and tactical change in
large organizations. In the public sector, Maribeth authored the roadmap for the reform of the $3.8
billion Chicago Public School system, the nation?s third largest, and served as a key member of the
internationally acclaimed turnaround team. Appointed Inspector General by Chicago Mayor Richard
Daley in 1998, she managed a staff that investigated thousands of cases of fraud, waste, and misconduct.
Also at that time. she served as President of the Illinois Association of Inspectors General. In 2009, Illinois
Governor Patrick Quinn appointed Maribeth to a special investigatory panel to address abuses in the
University of Illinois admissions process. In 2011, Governor Quinn appointed Maribeth as member of the
Illinois Gaming Board.

A former award-winning journalist for the Chicago Sun-Times and author of the I995 book, Reclaiming
Our Schools, the Struggle for Chicago School Reform, Maribeth has been pro?led in the Wall Street
Journal, Teacher Magazine, Education Week, and in the 1998 book, Extraordinary Ordinary Women
Making a Di??erence. Her work is cited in the book, Battling Corruption in America's Public Schools, and
in many other publications.

VanderWeeIe Groupuc?,President 2003to Present

Maribeth is President of the Vander Weele Group. which investigates integrity breaches and builds
solutions to repair the systemic weaknesses that allowed them to occur. Clients range from Fortune
500 companies and law ?rms to federal agencies and not-for-profit organizations. The ?rm is
federally certi?ed as an Woman-Owned and ?rm. In 2002, she provided
consulting services through Chadwick Associates. Inc., a Washington, D.C. risk management ?rm.

Chicago Public Schools, Inspector General 19981?02002

As Inspector General of the nation's third-largest school system, Maribeth oversaw a staff that
investigated thousands of cases of fraud. waste. and misconduct in the operations and contracting
of city schools. She restructured the agency to ensure that investigations were conducted according
to the highest professional standards. She created and oversaw a construction integrity unit and
procurement fraud investigation unit, which instituted management reviews of key operational
areas such as busing, construction, food services, information technology, and janitorial services.

Chicago Public Schools, Chief of Investigations 19952?0 [998

In 1995, Maribeth joined the management team charged by Mayor Daley to turn around the city
schools. As a key adviser to the Chief Executive Officer, she spearheaded system-wide policy and
management reforms to restore integrity, promote accountability, and improve the quality of
public education. As Chief of Investigations from 1995 to 1998, she created a team that
investigated employee integrity issues and oversaw the Internal Audit Unit, which conducted
?nancial and management reviews. Maribeth also managed a $3-million Safe Schools grant,
through which her team created a Truancy Hotline that returned thousands of children to school
and administered small school grants for truancy prevention.

Author, Reclaiming Our Schools I995

Reclaiming Our Schools, the Struggle for Chicago School Reform, based on Maribeth?s investigative
reporting for the Chicago Sun-77mm, became the roadmap for the nationally acclaimed reform of
the system. The state legislature and the school system implemented dozens of its
recommendations, enabling the system to achieve signi?cant improvement. Her work is quoted in
multiple publications and books, both domestically and abroad.

Speaker

Maribeth has lectured at seminars for Harvard University, the National Business Roundtable, the
Public Broadcasting System, the Association of Inspectors General, the National Association of
Local Government Auditors, the Illinois CPA Society, the Chicago Chapter of the Association of
Certified Fraud Examiners, the National Education Writers Association, the University of Chicago
Graduate School of Business, Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University,
and in many other forums nationwide and in Canada.

Maribeth is a Certified Protection Professional and a licensed private detective. She is a member of the
Association of Certi?ed Fraud Examiners, the Association of Inspectors General, the American Society for
Industrial Security, the Illinois Chamber of Commerce, the Illinois Trade Association, and the Women
Presidents? Organization. She is the winner of numerous journalism awards and, most recently, awards by
Count-Me?In, a New York organization that supports women entrepreneurs.

The Vander Weele Group is certi?ed as an woman-owned small business by the federal government
and a woman-owned enterprise by the City of Chicago, the County of Cook, the State of Illinois, and the
Chicago Transit Authority.

Maribeth graduated cum laude from Wheaton College in Wheaton, with a Bachelor of Arts in
Political Science. She has provided and undertaken extensive training in fraud examination and security-
related matters.



852 West Belle Plaine Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60613 Telephone 773-929-3030 Fax 773-929-3032

IL 117-00123] VA 99439760 A FEDERALLY CERTIFIED WOMAN-OWNED HUBZDNE BUSINESS

JUAN CALIXTO
1658 N. Richmond, Chicago, IL

 

(312) 203-7938
Luacalixto?aotcom
EXPERIENCE
North Park University, Chicago IL. September 2011 Current

Adjunct Faculty Faculty of the School of Business and Nonpro?t Management where I
taught graduate students Grant Writing for Foundations and Corporations.

Kaleidoscope, Inc., Chicago IL. May 2011 - Current
BUILD, Inc., Chicago, IL. September 2010 March 2011
Interim Development Director Served as a consultant to these youth organizations
experiencing a staff vacancy, helping them maintain current funding streams while creating the
resource development plan for the following year. Managed daily department operations
including supervision of staff, working with volunteers, implementing special events and
submission of grant proposals.

Mujeres Latinas en Accion, Chicago, IL. 1999 June 30, 2010
DeveIOpment Director - Managed all of the agency?s development and communications to secure
resources and visibility for programs and advocacy initiatives. The agency provided comprehensive
services, for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, as well as programs in parenting
support, homelessness prevention, youth services and Latina leadership development.
- Established a development department with a detailed development plan and created
systems for effective resource development.
- Expanded the development of?ce from one to three full-time staff and a part-time
communications consultant.
. Doubled the gross income net income ($153,000) and attendance (450) at
agency?s annual bene?t, and exceeded the department?s annual goal of $2.6 million.
- Implemented the agency?s ?rst employee and board member annual fund campaigns.
- Revitalized and completed the agency's $3.5 million capital campaign project to
renovate the organization?s new headquarters.
- Developed professional standards for all agency communications, branded logo around
Latina and women?s issues and worked to redesign the agency?s website.

Spanish Coalition for Jobs, Inc., Chicago, IL. 1997 - 1999
Director, Fund DeveIOpment - Developed and administered effective agency fundraising and
public information programs within the framework of the agency?s objectives. Spanish Coalition for
Jobs provided educational, vocational and employment services forjob seekers so that they could
achieve economic independence.
- Created a tracking and cultivation program for foundation and corporation grants and
sponsorships.

- Established an employer giving campaign.
- Elevated the work of the agency's Business Advisory Council to include fundraising and
assisting with the agency?s special events.

Chicago Youth Centers, Chicago, IL. 1992 - 1997
Center Director - Administrator for a multi-site (3) child and youth service community center, which
offered Head Start, After School Drug/Gang Prevention, Neighborhood Development and
SummerNVinter Camp.

- Generated income to support the Center?s efforts through local board initiatives.

- Initiated cross-site training and support tobuild teamwork between sites.

- Cultivated relationships to expand resources for the agency.

Network for Youth Services, Chicago, IL. 1988 - 1992
Interim Executive Director - Administrator for a membership organization that advocated on
behalf of youth and supported its members through dissemination of information on education,
neighborhood safety, and health related issues impacting youth.
- Created the agency?s ?rst development of?ce.
- Expanded the agency's revenue beyond membership dues to include foundation and
corporate support.
. Promoted annually from Community Organizer, to Program Coordinator, to Development
Of?cer to Interim Executive Director.

Erie Neighborhood House, Chicago, IL. 1987 - 1988
Youth Worker - Organized structured evening activities for neighborhood youth ages 12 - 19.
Major areas of responsibilities included planning age appropriate activities, supervision of groups,
scheduling ?eld trips, providing workshops, coaching team sports and serving as a role model.

CERTIFICATIONS
Certi?ed Fund Raising Executive (CFRE) awarded by CFRE International.

EDUCATION
Roosevelt University, Chicago, IL. Master of Public Administration (MPA), Concentration: Not?
for-Pro?t Management.

Northern Illinois University, DeKaIb, IL. Bachelor of Science (BS), Major: Sociology.

CIVIC ENDEAVORS
- Association of Fundraising Professionals, 1987 present
0 Served in many capacities including International Association Board Member and
Chicago Chapter Board Member
0 Chicago Chapter?s President?s Award, 2006
- Attorney General?s Charitable Advisory Committee, 2002 - 2010
- Latinos in Development Founding Member, 1997- present
- Cook County Board of Ethics, 2010 - present

