 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, November 12, 2013 Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to discuss the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the
Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) 0n the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony
shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to
act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the
time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing
future testimony.

Wyatt v. Hart, et al.

Renard Lewis v. Cook County

Calvin Walker 12. Cook County

Michael Wright v. Cook County

Capra v. Cook County, et al.

Valle v. Sheri?r Thomas Dart, Palomino, et al.
Lambert v. Jamison, et al.

Hernandez v. Cook County Sherz'??s Dept, et al.

Gwendolyn Bell v. Cook County
James Degorski v. Cook County Sheri?? et al.

United States of America v. Cook County, et al.

SUBCOMNIITTEE ROUTINELY MEETS IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.

25 

?Mathew B. DeLeon

Secretaly
Chairman: Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Collins, Gainer, Schneider, Suffredinz Tobolski

Page 2 0f 2

