Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations

Monday, September 8, 2014

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.
14-0375
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances for the purpose of
establishing a Conservation and Policy Council for the purpose of providing additional leadership and expertise in
the conservation area and other related areas.
WHEREAS, One hundred years ago, civic leaders in Chicago had the wisdom and foresight to leave us an
extraordinary gift: the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and;
WHEREAS, in recognition of the need for a renewed vision for the District and as an acknowledgment of this
body’s commitment to a program of renewal, restoration and engagement, on February 18, 2014, the District Board
of Commissioners adopted the Next Century Conservation Plan (the “Plan”), and;

 WHEREAS, the Plan, which was developed by a team of civic leaders, organizations and District staff to map the
District’s strategic conservation vision for the next 100 years, calls for transforming the forest preserves to places
that foster diversity of plants, animals and habitats and welcome diverse people, and;
WHEREAS, the Plan also calls for the creation of a Conservation and Policy Council to provide continuous
conservation leadership and expertise to the President and Board of Commissioners of the District.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the District Board of Commissioners that Title I Forest Preserve
Lands and Property, Chapter 18 Conservation and Policy Council of the Code of the District hereby is enacted as
follows:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1 - OFFICIAL FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT CODE
CHAPTER 2 - SAVING CLAUSE
CHAPTER 3 - DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 4 - GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 5 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 6 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 7 - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 8 – DISTRICT FINANCES
CHAPTER 9 - LAND ACQUISITIONS AND DEDICATIONS
CHAPTER 10 - POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 11 - DRUG-FREE POLICY FOR DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 12 - BOTTLED WATER BAN
CHAPTER 13 - CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 14 - DISTRICT VEHICLE POLICY
CHAPTER 15 - REDUCTION OF WASTE
CHAPTER 16 - GREEN BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 17 - OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
CHAPTER 18 - CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
****
CHAPTER 18 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-1
1-18-2
1-18-3
1-18-4
1-18-5

GENERAL PROVISIONS
MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance.
B. Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation and Policy Council is to safeguard, expand and bring additional
resources to the District by providing public recommendations regarding conservation, based on the Council’s
knowledge, skill, leadership and expertise in the field of conservation and other related areas, to the General
Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners of the District.
Page 2 of 7

 C. Declaration. The District Board hereby establishes the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation
and Policy Council ("Conservation Council"). The District Board hereby finds and declares that the Conservation
Council shall do, but not be limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the Next
Century Conservation Plan and annually recommend adoption of the updated strategic and
financial plan to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners;
2. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about the annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about conservation policies and practices;
4. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources to
accomplish conservation goals and initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and conservation
leadership.
D. Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this Section:
1. Conservation Council means the eleven (11) Member board charged with providing public
recommendations to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners on all
matters relating to the policies of the District and the Next Century Conservation Plan.
2. Chairperson means the chairperson of the Conservation and Policy Council.
3. District Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois.
4. Member means a Member of the Conservation and Policy Council.
5. Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance, as amended.
6. President means the President of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County, Illinois.
1-18-2

MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

A. General. The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be reimbursed for
actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Conservation Council.
B. Number of Members. There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex Officio (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
Page 3 of 7

 C. Appointment of Members. One of the eleven (11) Members shall be Chairperson, appointed by the President and
one of the eleven (11) shall be an Ex-Officio Member. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a District Board
Commissioner, appointed by the President. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a voting Member of the
Conservation Council. The Ex-Officio Member shall serve as a liaison between the District Board and the
Conservation Council. The ten (10) remaining Members, including the Chairperson, shall be appointed in the
following manner:
1. Initial Appointments. The President shall appoint all Initial Members of the Conservation Council
based on the criteria established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances.
2. Subsequent Appointments. After the first term of each of the Initial Member appointments
expires or are otherwise terminated, Members of the Conservation Council will be selected as
follows:
3. The President, in consultation with the Council, will appoint a Nominating Committee, comprised
of at least 5 individuals, to recommend replacement or renewal of Members as terms expire.
a.

A majority of the Nominating Committee members will be representatives of
not-for-profit organizations that have as their primary focus conservation of nature, land
and/or water.
One member of the Nominating Committee will be a representative of a not-for-profit
organization that has as its primary focus government finance and public policy.
The Nominating Committee may include up to two Conservation Council members.

b.
c.

4. The Nominating Committee will review the qualifications of individuals on the criteria established
in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances, and will present at least one nomination for
each vacant position to the President before the end of the term
5. The President will select from the Nominating Committee’s list and present one name for each
vacancy to the Board of Commissioners for concurrence.
6. If the Board does not approve appointment of the recommended candidate(s), the President may go
back to the original recommendations of the Nominating Committee, or request additional names
from the Nominating Committee.
7. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment by the President or Board of
Commissioners shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Is signed by the candidate;
Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
Is notarized;
Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute,
ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment;
e. Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills;
8. If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is appointed,
the candidate will notify the President of the District Board of Commissioners in writing within
seven (7) business days of the change.
Page 4 of 7

 D. Terms of Members.
1. Ex-Officio Member.
The District Board Commissioner who is appointed as the ex-officio Member shall serve on the
Conservation Council for the length of the Commissioner’s term. Upon an appointment or
election change for the representative from the District Board, the President may provide notice to
the District Board and the Conservation Council of any such change in ex-officio Member
appointment.
2. The remaining Members. The Chairperson and the other remaining nine (9) Members of the
Conservation Council shall serve terms as follows
a.For the Initial Members,
1. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2015.
2. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2016.
3. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2017.
4. The Chairperson initially appointed by the President also shall serve a term that expires
on December 31, 2017.
b.

Thereafter, all Members including the Chairperson, but excluding the Ex-Officio Member,
appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years.
1.
2.

Each appointed Member, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office until a
successor is appointed.
Any appointed Member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy
caused by the expiration of the predecessor's term, shall serve until the expiration
of his or her predecessor's term.

E. Vacancy. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

Expiration of Member’s term,
Resignation,
Death,
Conviction of a felony, or
Removal from the office of an appointed Member as set forth in paragraph ‘F’ of this
Section.

F. Removal of Members. A Conservation Council Member may be removed for good cause by the President.
Good cause includes inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or any cause which renders the Member unfit
for the position or unable to perform the duties of the position. The President shall provide written notice to
that Member, the General Superintendent, the Conservation Council and the District Board of the proposed
removal of that Member from the Conservation Council; such notice shall state the specific grounds which
constitute cause for removal. The Member, in receipt of such notice, may request to appear before the District
Board and present reasons in support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the District Board shall vote upon
whether there are sufficient grounds to remove that Member from office. The President shall notify the subject
Member of the final action of the District Board.
Page 5 of 7

 G. Officers. The Conservation Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers: (1) Chairperson,
(2) Vice-Chairperson and (3) Secretary. The Chairperson shall be appointed by the President. The Vice
Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the Council. Each of the three officers, respectively, shall be entitled
to vote on all matters before the Conservation Council and may be appointed to serve successive terms as
officers.

H.

Duties of officers.
1. The Chairperson shall:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Preside at all meetings, when present;
Execute all documents relating to Conservation Council policy or designate such
responsibility as warranted;
Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
Perform any other agenda duties as directed by the Conservation Council.

2. The Vice-Chairperson shall act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence.
In the event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall succeed
to this office for the unexpired term or until the President brings forth another appointment that
is recommended by the Nominating Committee and approved by the Board.
3. The Secretary shall maintain the Conservation Council records, including notices for and
minutes of meetings and hearings.
1-18-3

QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS

A. Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing individuals to serve as Members shall include:
1.

Background and skills needed on the Conservation Council including, but not limited
to expertise in one or more of the following:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.
k.
l.
m.

Conservation (practice)
Ecology (science)
Education/interpretation
Cultural resources/archeology/historic preservation
Management/business
Eco- or heritage tourism/market feasibility analysis
Finance
Public policy and planning
Outdoor recreation
Health and wellness
Volunteer management
High level government experience
Working knowledge of the District, Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo
and/or other culturally significant institutions affiliated with, or supportive of,
the District’s statutorily defined purpose.

2.

Resident of Cook County, Illinois;

3.

Availability and willingness to attend Conservation Council meetings quarterly; and

4.

Ability and willingness to:
Page 6 of 7

 a. Learn sufficient details about District management and operations in order to
effectively evaluate proposed actions and reports; and
b. Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chairperson of the
Conservation Council.

1-18-3 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Conservation Council thereafter, the Members shall prescribe
the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special meetings may be called.
B Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be held
annually.
C. A majority of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Conservation Council
shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting Members of the Conservation Council present and
voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.
D. The Conservation Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.
E. The Conservation Council shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act, as now or hereafter
amended, and found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
F. The Conservation Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at
50 ILCS 205/1, et seq., as well as the Freedom of Information Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 5
ILCS 140/1, et seq.
G. The Conservation Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on its website.
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The Conservation Council shall submit to the General Superintendent, the Board of Commissioners and the
President an annual report prior to the end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which may be
necessary to carry out the mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to conservation issues.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon approval and adoption.
Legislative History:
Relations.

7/22/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

_________________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 7 of 7

 