Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Monday, February 9, 2015

11:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the
meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.
15-1549
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1-20-2015 (recessed and reconvened meeting on 1-21-15)

15-1044
Sponsored by: ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
MEDICAL EXAMINER ADVISORY COMMITTEE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VI. Medical Examiner, Division 1. Generally, Section 38-132. of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-132. - Advisory committee.
(a)There shall be created a Medical Examiner's Advisory Committee (“Committee”) made up of 11
members appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and
consent of the Board of Commissioners. The Committee shall act in an advisory capacity to the County
Board and will consider those matters referred to it by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook
County pertaining to the handling, storage and final disposition of decedents. When considering matters

 referred by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook County, the Committee shall keep the
dignity of the deceased at the forefront of their recommendations. Members shall include, but are not
limited to, at least one person from each of the following categories:
(1) A member of the medical profession;
(2) A clergyperson;
(3) A funeral director;
(4) An attorney from the Cook County State's Attorney Office;
(5) A Commissioner representing the people of Cook County One Cook County Commissioner to
serve as an Ex-officio Member with voting rights. The Ex-officio Member shall serve as a liaison
between the County Board and the Committee;
(6) A member of the Chicago Police Department;
(7) A representative from the Cook County Sheriff's Office; and
(8) A member of the public.
(b) Term and conditions of Office.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 38-132(b), the members of the Committee appointed under
Section 38-132(a) shall be appointed for two years.
(1) Ex-officio member. The ex-officio member shall be the appointed Cook County Commissioner
who shall serve as the ex-officio member for the length of the Commissioner’s term.
(2) The remaining members. The remaining seven (7) members of the Committee shall serve terms
as follows:
a. For the initial members whose appointments became effective July 10, 2012:
1. Four of the members whose term appointment became effective on July 10, 2012 shall
serve a term that expires on April 1, 2015; initial member terms expiring on April 1, 2015
include the member of the medical profession, the funeral director, the representative of the
Chicago Police Department and the representative from the Cook County Sheriff’s Office.
2. Three of the members whose term appointment became effective on July 10, 2012 shall
serve a term that expires on April 1, 2016; initial member terms expiring on April 1, 2016
include the clergyperson member, the attorney from the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office and the member of the public.
b. Thereafter, the members other than the ex-officio member appointed shall serve a term of two
years.
1. Each member, whether initial or subsequent, shall serve until a successor is appointed.
2. Any member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy caused by the
expiration of the predecessor’s term, shall serve until the expiration of this or her predecessor’s
term.

Page 2 of 5

 c. Other than the Ex-Officio Commissioner, a member may not serve more than two consecutive
full terms.
(bc)The members of this Committee shall serve without pay.
(cd) The members of this Committee shall attend meetings to be held at the Medical Examiner's Office on
a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter of the fiscal year in which this Ordinance is enacted.
(de) The Committee shall prepare an annual report. The report shall be distributed to the individual
members of the Board of Commissioners and the President's Office before January 31 of each year. The
report shall include minutes of meetings of the Advisory Committee over the past year, including a list of
attendees at each meeting, and any recommendations made by the Committee as a result of matters referred
to it by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook County. for improving operations of the
Medical Examiner's Office and service to the residents of Cook County. The Medical Examiner's Office
shall provide administrative support as necessary.
(ef) The members of the Committee shall have a fiduciary responsibility to protect the dignity of the
deceased that are brought into the Cook County Medical Examiner's Office.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 1/21/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
15-1216
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and STANLEY MOORE, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
LARRY SUFFREDIN, DEBORAH SIMS, BRIDGET GAINER, ROBERT STEELE, LUIS ARROYO
JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, GREGG GOSLIN and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO PASS HB 172 TO RESTORE JUDICIAL
DISCRETION IN THE TRANSFER OF JUVENILES TO ADULT COURT
WHEREAS, the nation’s first juvenile court was created in Cook County 115 years ago, based on the
understanding that children are different and should be treated differently than adults; and
WHEREAS, scientific research has proven that the adolescent brain is not fully developed in the areas
that regulate rational decision making and impulse control; and
WHEREAS, 705 ILCS 405/5-130 of the Juvenile Court Act, mandates that youth predominantly 15 and
older, but as young as 13, automatically be tried as adults, in adult court, facing adult sentences, based
solely on the charge brought, which is at the exclusive discretion of the prosecutor; and
WHEREAS, Illinois is one of only 14 states that do not require a hearing in front of a juvenile court
judge before a child is transferred to adult court; and
WHEREAS, according to a study by the Illinois Juvenile Justice Initiative (JJI), since the passage of the
Automatic Transfer statute in 1982, transfers to adult court have increased from 57 annually to 86
annually as of 2012; and
WHEREAS, the number of youth charged as Automatic Transfers increased dramatically after the
passage of “Raise the Age” legislation from 96 in 2013 to 178 in 2014; and

Page 3 of 5

 WHEREAS, Automatic Transfer of youth to adult court has a direct impact on the Cook County
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) in which the average daily population of transferred youth
has nearly doubled over the last year from 72 to 138; and
WHEREAS, according to the JJI study, the implementation of Automatic Transfer has resulted in more
children being transferred to adult court for less serious crimes as compared to when judges made the
transfer decisions; and
WHEREAS, Automatic Transfer has an extreme disproportionate impact on children of color. In a
three year sample of automatic transfers in Cook County, only 83% of youth transferred were African
American, and only one youth was white; and
WHEREAS, approximately 54% of Automatic Transfer youth in the three year study by JJI ultimately
pled guilty to lesser charges that if originally charged would have been prosecuted in juvenile court; and
WHEREAS, Adult court cases are processed at a much slower pace than juvenile cases with an average
time to disposition of 369 days for Automatic Transfer youth whose cases where disposed of in the last
year; and
WHEREAS, according to a 2007 survey by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention children
prosecuted as adults are 34% more likely to reoffend than children with similar criminal histories who
are prosecuted in juvenile court for similar offenses; and
WHEREAS, “The Consequences of Transfer” a study published by the University of Chicago Press,
found that children prosecuted as adults are more likely to commit more serious new crimes at a faster
rate than those tried in juvenile court; and
WHEREAS, according to analysis by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice there is no correlation
between the transferring of juveniles to adult court and the drop in youth violence across the country; and
WHEREAS, the United Nation Human Rights Committee urged the U.S. to end prosecution of juveniles
in adult court; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court of Illinois in People v. Patterson, urged the legislature to reform the
automatic transfer statute in Illinois stating “While modern research has recognized the effect that the
unique qualities and characteristics of youth may have on juveniles’ judgment and actions, the automatic
transfer provision does not. Indeed, the mandatory nature of that statute denies this reality. Accordingly,
we strongly urge the General Assembly to review the automatic transfer provision based on the current
scientific and sociological evidence indicating a need for the exercise of judicial discretion in
determining the appropriate setting for the proceedings in these juvenile cases”; and
WHEREAS, automatic transfer prevents any consideration by a judge of the particular characteristics of
a child, the crime, or the child’s role in the crime in determining the appropriate venue for sentencing;
and
WHEREAS, automatically transferring youth accused of certain crimes ignores the scientific research
and the underlying philosophy of the juvenile court; and
WHEREAS, Every child in Illinois deserves a fair hearing in front of a juvenile court judge to determine
whether their case is more appropriately handled in juvenile or adult court; and

Page 4 of 5

 WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of justice to restore judicial discretion in all decisions relating to the
transfer of a child to adult court;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby urge the Illinois General Assembly to pass HB 172, which ends the Automatic Transfer of youth
to adult court and restores judicial discretion, by requiring a hearing in front of a juvenile court judge to
determine whether a child is suitable for the rehabilitative focus of the juvenile court or should be
transferred to adult court and sentenced as an adult; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of the Resolution be tendered to the Speaker of
the Illinois House of Representatives and the President of the Illinois Senate.
Legislative History: 1/21/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
15-1217
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Esther Franco-Payne
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/30/2016, or until a successor is appointed. Ms. Franco-Payne will fill the vacancy
of Lanetta Haynes Turner
Legislative History: 1/21/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

_________________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 5 of 5

 