REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
MARCH

25, 2010

The Honorable, 

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County 

ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Peraica (1)

Also Present:

Bruce Washington - Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy;
Clarence Bourne - Senior Vice President Investment Banking Division, Loop
Capital Markets; Jaye Morgan Williams - Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of
Finance; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. - Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau; and Bennie E. Martin - Executive Law Librarian.

Court Reporter:

Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant
to notice on Thursday, March 25, 2010 at the hour of 1:00 P.M. in the Board Room, Room 569,
County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
305673  

INNOVATIVE INTERFACES, INC. (PROPOSED CONTRACT). Transmitting a
Communication from Bennie E. Martin, Executive Law Librarian, Cook County Law
Library:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
. INNOVATIVE INTERFACES, INC., Emeryville, California, to lease its Millennium
system, an automated integrated library management system, and for services
from the company associated with installation of the system, including project
management, software configuration, training, implementation, consulting, data
loading and maintenance services.
Reason:   The Millennium system will replace the existing system, which was
installed in 1992, and is no longer supported by its vendor, and is
inadequate for the Library's needs. The new system will integrate the
library's processes for acquisition, check-in, cataloging, and payment of
library materials, not all of which are currently automated. It will also
produce a web-based, online public access catalog of the library's
holdings.

 FINANCE COMMITTl
IEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 2

Innovative Interfaces, Inc. was selected through a Request for Proposal
(RFP) process per County requirements. This vendor can fulfill the
specialized automation requirements of a large county law library,
migrate the bibliographic data for this large collection from the current
system to theirs, and grow with the changes in the legal publishing and
legal research worlds to continue to meet the needs of the Cook
County Law Library and its patrons. Innovative Interfaces, Inc. has
worked with other county law libraries.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $335,904.00 (FY 2010 -$112,730.00; FY 2011 ­
$70,476.00; FY 2012- $70,476.00; FY 2013 - $70,476.00~ and FY 2014 ­
$11,746.00). Contract period: May 1, 2010 through April 30, 2015. (530-579
Account). Requisition No. 05300001.
Sufficient funds are available through the Cook County Law Library Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The, Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the
technical aspect of this recommendation.

* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 03/16/10.
Commissioner Suffredili asked for,an explanation of the contract that is being requested by the
Law Library and how it will provide services to the citizens of Cook County.
Bennie M,artin, Executive Law Librarian, responded: The contract with Innovative Interfaces is
to replace the online management system that is currently in place. The new system will allow
us to provide greater support for the librarian, the cardholders, the card catalogue, and for the
citizens to be' able to access the' materials online and eventually for individuals to be able to dial
up to access, the library materials. Furthermore, it will assist the Law Library in managing the
system .in the sense that the Law Library takes in from 90,000 to 100,000 pieces of material per
year which need to be recorded, documented, and processed. Additionally, it will allow the Law
Library to report on utilization of the library's resources.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved the approval of
Communication No. 305673. The motion carried.
305674  

ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 32 FEES, SECTION 32-1 OF THE COOK
COUNTY CODE INCREASING THE LAW LIBRARY FEE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Transmitting a Communication, dated February 23,
2010 from Bennie E. Martin, Executive Law Librarian, Cook County Law Library
respectfully request approval of the following proposed Ordinance Amendment.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

 FINANCE COMMITTE..
lEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 3

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LAW LIBRARY FILING FEE
WHEREAS, 55 ILCS 5/5-39001 authorizes the clerk of all civil trial courts at the
county seat of government to collect a filing fee to defray the cost of operating and
maintaining a county law library; and
WHEREAS, P.A. 96'-0227, effective August 11, 2009, authorizes counties in
Illinois to increase the· County Law Library Filing Fee to defray the cost of
operating and maintaining law libraries, from the current maximum of $13, to
maximums of $18 in 2009, $19 in 2010 and $21 in 2011; and
WHEREAS, P.A. 96-0227 was supported by many other counties around the state
including: DeKalb, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Lake, Madison, McHenry, McLean, St.
Clair, Tazewell, Will and Winnebago Counties; and
WHEREAS, prior to enactment of P.A. 96-0227, the General Assembly only
increased the maximum filing fee by three dollars, during the previous 20 years,
which is less than half of the CPI increase during that same time period; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board last authorized an increase'in the filing fee for
the Law Library in 2004; and
WHEREAS, thirteen dollars has been inadequate in defraying the costs of
operating and maintaining the County Law Library; and
WHEREAS, the Law Library's budget has decreased by $1.8 million (25%) which
has led to a reduction in the Library's staff by 15 positions (24%) over the past five
years; and
WHEREAS, a misperception exists that all relevant legal information is freely
available online to the average citizen, when, the average citizen does not have.
subscriptions to online legal publications; and
WHEREAS, county law libraries provide the general public with access to justice,
which includes both print and electronic legal information and research assistance
they would not be able to access anywhere else; and
WHEREAS, Cook County's Law Library is a National Hub Law Library which
provides citizens with access to over a quarter of a million print titles and several
online legal databases and with seven branch libraries, it is the only law library in
the area that is freely available to all people without restriction; and
WHEREAS, other counties, law library filing fees· are much higher than Cook
County's, ·for example: Los Angeles' filing fee, a similarly sized county, is $24,
. Sacramento, California ($50); San Francisco, California ($42); San Diego,
California, ($38); Alameda, California ($37); EI Paso, Texas ($35); King,
Washington ($20); and Wayne, Michigan ($20); and
.

 FINANCE COMMITTE:.
iEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
'PAGE 4

WHEREAS, the Cook County Law Library has the vision of being able to more
efficiently reach our constituency through technology and is in the process of
migrating to a new online integrated library management system.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of·the Cook County Code is·
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be
as shown below:
Code Section

Description

Fees, Rates, Charges (in dollars)

CHAPTER 50, LIBRARIES
50-31 (b)

County Law Library fee

. Effective Date:
adoption.

This Amended Ordinance shall be effective one month after

* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 03/16/10.
Commissioner Gorman asked about the revenue projections.
Mr; Martin replied that with each $1 increase, the Law Library projected that there would be a
net gain in revenue of $300,000. Given ·the shortfall that the Law Library has of approximately
$1.2 million, the additional $5.00 would give the Law Library the monies needed in order to
.. balance their budget without any additional support from the County's corporate fund.
: Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved that the
Ordinance· Amendment (Communication No. 305674) be approved and adopted. The
motion carried.
.With respect to Communication Number ·305686, Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the
Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2­
108(dd).
·1. George Blakemore, Cook County resident
305686·.  

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE MASTER BOND ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Todd Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners: .
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
. An Ordinance amending an ordinance adopted 

on the 17th day of September, 2008, by the 

Board of Commissioners o.f The County of Cook, Illinois. 


 FINANCE COMMITTE:.

.EPORT

MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 5

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners (the "Board') of The County of
Cook, Illinois (the "County') , heretofore adopted on the 17th day of September,
2008, an ordinance entitled, "An Ordinance providing for the issuance of one or
more series of General Obligation Bonds of The County of Cook, Illinois" (as most
recently amended, the "Master Bond Ordinance'); and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance authorizes the issuance from time
to time of one or more series of general obligation bonds of the County (being,
collectively, the "Bonds'); and

.... 

, WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance provides that the Bonds shall be
. issued from time to time in one or more series to pay the costs of the Public Safety
Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund Project, the Capital
Equipment Project, the Insurance Reserve Project and the Pension Fund Project
(each as defined in the Master Bond Ordinance and being, collectively, the
."Projects'), provided that the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for the
Projects pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance shall not exceed the amount of
$740,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance further provides that of said
amount of $740,000,000, the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for the
~   Public Safety Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund
Project shall not exceed the amount of $242,943,365 and that the aggregate
principal.amount of Bonds issued for the Capital Equipment Project related to the
Duran Consent Decree shall not exceed the sum of $8,466,741 and for the
balance of the Capital Equipment Project shall not exceed that amount expressly
authorized by the Board; and
WHEREAS, the County has issued its $251,410,000 Taxable General
Obligation. Bonds, Series2009B (Build America Bonds - Direct Payment),
: $97,060,000 General Obligation Capital Equipment Bonds, Series 20090, and
$6,520;000 Taxable General Obligation Bonds, Series 2009E, the proceeds of
which. have been appropriated for and are being used to pay said approved costs
. of the Public Safety Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund
Project, the Capital Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent Decree, and
the balance of the Capital Equipment Project heretofore expressly approved by the
Board; and
WHEREAS,incidental to its approval of the 2010 Capital Improvement
Program, the Board. has further approved capital improvement funding for the
Public Safety Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund
Project in the aggregate amount of $309,186,390 (being, collectively, the "2010
Public. Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate Fund Projects') and has further
approved capital eqUipment funding in the aggregate amount of $161,550,340
(together with the 2010 Public Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate Fund
Projects, the "2010 Capital Projects'); and
WHEREAS, the Pension Fund Project includes the settlement and
payment of an outstandif1g obligation to the Cook County Annuity and Benefit

 FINANCE COMMITTL .{EPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 6
Fund, and it may be possible to achieve a debt service savings by the issuance of
Bonds having a maturity of four years or less to payor reimburse the. costs of the
Pension Fund Project; and
;
WHEREAS, it is necessary and advisable that the Board further amend the
Master Bond Ordinance to provide for the issuance of Bonds to pay costs of the
2010 Capital Projects and the Pension Fund Proj~t:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the80ard of Commissioners
of The County of Cook, Illinois, as follows:
.

SECTION 1. AUTHORIZED AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL
PROJECT BONDS INCREASED.

AMOUNT

OF

In order to provide for the 2010 Capital Projects and the Pension Fund
Project, the Master Bond Ordinance be, and it hereby is, amended to provide that
the '.' aggregate principal amount of the Project Bonds authorized to be issued
pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance shall be increased by the sum of
$40,000,000.

SEC·nON 2.

SECTION 11 AMENDED AND RESTATED.

Section 11 of the Master Bond Ordinance is hereby amended and restated,
said amended and restated Section 11 to read as follows:

SECTION 11. SALE OF THE BONDS; BOND ORDERS; SELECTION OF
FINANCING TEAMS; ANNUAL REPORTS; EXECUTION OF
DOCUMENTS AUTHORIZED; UNDERTAKINGS; OFFERING
MATERIALS; CREDIT FACILITIES.
A.
. SALE OF THE BONDS. The Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to sell all or' any portion of the several Series of the Bonds to the
respective Underwriters from time to time on such terms as she may deem to be in
. the best interests of the County and may elect to designate all or any portion of the
several Series of the Bonds as Build America Bonds and Qualified Build America
Bonds pursuant to the .Stimulus Act and have Section .54AA of the Code (and
Section 54AA(g) of the' Code if such bonds are deSignated as Qualified Build
America Bonds) apply to same; provided that (i) in each case the Purchase Price
shall be. at least: ninety-eight percent (98%) of the. proceeds of the Bonds
(exclusive of any net original issue discount used in the marketing of the Bonds,
not to ~xceed 10% of the prinCipal amount thereof), plus accrued interest, if any,
on the Bonds 'from their Dated Date to the date of their Issuance, (ii) the aggregate
amount of principal of and interest on and Maturity Amount of the Bonds (based,
for Variable Rate Bonds, on the reasonable estimate of the· Chief Financial Officer
as hereinabove provided) in any year shall not exceed the aggregate amount
levied therefor pursuant hereto plus capitalized interest, if any, and (iii) as an
additional limitation on the· sale of the Refunding Bonds, each such certificate or
report (as hereinabove described) mustset forth that the Refunding will provide a
present value debt service savings to the County resulting from the issuance of
Refunding Bonds to refund each maturity, or part of a maturity, of the Refunded

 FINANCE COMMITIl IEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 7

:

;

.

Bonds which are chosen to be refunded, which report shall demonstrate that the
County will realize a minimum net present value savings of three percent {3.00%} .
of the debt service on the Refunded Bonds being refunded. The Bonds may be
.sold from time to time as the Chief Financial Officer shall determine that the
proceeds of such sales are needed. Nothing contained ·in this Ordinance shall limit
the sale .of the Bonds or any maturity or maturities thereof at a price or prices in
excess of the principal amount thereof. Incidental to each sale of the several
Series of Bonds the Chief Financial Officer shall provide the Corporate Authorities
a written notification of the sale of such. Bonds, which notification shall describe
such Series of Bonds in detail.
B.
BOND ORDERS. Subsequent to each such sale of the Bonds, the 

.Chief Financial Officer shall file in the office of the County Clerk a Bond Order 

directed to the Corporate Authorities identifying {i} the terms of the sale, {ii} the 

amount of the Bonds being sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds, Convertible CABs 

or Current Interest· Bonds, (iii) the amount of Bonds being sold as Variable Rate 

Bonds and attaching the related Indenture or Indentures, (iv) the Dated Date of the 

Bonds sold, {v} the aggregate principal amount of Bonds sold, {vi} the principal 

amount of Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory redemption in each year, (vii) 

the optional redemption provisions applicable to the !3onds sold, (viii) the specific 

maturities and principal amounts of Refunded Bonds to be refunded with the 

proceed~of the Bonds sold, {ix} the date on and price at which the Refunded 

Bonds shall be redeemed {if such redemption shall occur prior to the maturity date 

thereof or pursuant to mandatory redemption, (x) the financing team, including 

each Bond Counsel, Financial Advisor, Trustee and Underwriter and, for each 

Series· of Refunding Bonds, the Escrow Agent or Escrow Agents designated in 

connection with.the Refunding of the relevant Refunded Bonds, (xi) with respect to 

. any Capital Appreciation ·Bonds being sold, the Original Principal Amounts of and 

Yields to Maturity on such Capital Appreciation Bonds and a table of Compound 

Accreted Values per $5,000 Compound Accreted Value at Maturity for such 

Capital' Appreciation Bonds, setting forth the Compound Accreted Value of each 

such Capital Appreciation Bond on each semiannual compounding date, (xii) the 

'. interest rate or rates on any Current Interest Bonds sold, or, in the case of any
'. seri.es of Variable Rate Bonds the estimated rate used to determine the Pledged
Taxes for such Variable Rate Bonds and a description (which shall be in the
, relevant Indenture therefor) of the methods of determining the interest rate
applicable to such Variable Rate, Bonds from time to time and the identity of any
remarketing agent retained in connection with the issuance of Variable Rate
Bonds, (xiii) the identity of any Insurer, (xiv) the portion, if any, of the Bonds which
are not Tax Exempt, (xv) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility, and (xvi)
. •the information regarding the title and series designation  of the Bonds, together
with any other matter authorized by this Ordinance to be determined by the Chief .
Financial Officer at the time of sale of the Bonds, and thereafter the Bonds so sold
shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner provided herein and
delivered to the respective Underwriters in accordance with the terms of sale..
C.
SELECTION OF FINANCING TEAMS. The President a'nd Chief
Financial Officer are each hereby authorized and directed to select a financing
team, specifically including Underwriters, Bond CounseJ, Trustee, Financial
Advisors and other firms and, for any Series of Refunding Bonds, one or more

 FINANCE COMMITTl.IEPORT

MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 8

Escrow Agents and such other firms as necessary to effect the Refunding, and to
execute and deliver such contracts (including, specifically, a contract for the
purchase of Bonds) or agreements (including, specifically, for any Series of
Refunding Bonds one or more Escrow Agreements) with the entities selected in
connection with the sale. of each Series of the Bonds. Each such contract or
agreement shall be in substantially the form previously used for general obligation
. financings of the County, with appropriate revisions. to reflect the terms and
provisions of the Bonds of each Series and this Ordinance and such other
revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are
necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds.
D.
ANNUAL REPORTS.
On or before· each November 30,
commencing the November 30 following the first sale of any Bonds pursuant to
this Ordinance, the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a written statement to the
Corporate Authorities setting forth in summary form the details of each relevant
Bond Order filed with the County Clerk from and after the preceding December 1..
E.
. EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS AUTHORIZED. Any Designated
Officer and such other officers and ·officials of the County as may be necessary are
hereby authorized to execute such other documents, as may be necessary to
implement the Projects and the Refunding and to effect the issuance and delivery
and maintenance of the status of the Bonds, including but not limited to:
(i)
those certain contracts of purchase (each, a "Purchase
Contractjby and between the· County and the Underwriters, which
Purchase Contracts shall be in form acceptable to the Chief Financial
· Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;

(ii)
as necessary in connection with any Refunding, those
certain Escrow Agreements by and between the County and the Escrow
Agent or Escrow Agents, such agreements to be provided by Bond
Counsel, which Escrow Agreements shall be in form acceptable to the
Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;
(iii)
as .necessary in connection with the issuance of any Series
of Variable Rate Bonds, one or more Indentures, which Indentures shall be
in form acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer and .as customarily entered
into by the County;
(iv)
those certain Continuing Disclosure Undertakings, each as
approved by the Chief Financial Officer and each in form customarily used
by the County, to effect compliance with Rule 15c2-12 adopted by the
· Securities and Exchange Commission under the. Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and
(v)
such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be
required by Bond Counsel, including, specifically, a tax agreement, to
render their opinions as to the Tax Exempt status of the interest on any Tax
· Exempt Bonds or the qualification of a portion of the Bonds as Qualified
Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code;

 FINANCE COMMITTI:..
iEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 9

(vi)
such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be
advised by Bond Counsel as appropriate, to establish and maintain the Tax
Exempt status of the interest on any Tax Exempt Bonds and the
qualification of a portion of the Bonds as Qualified Build America Bonds
pursuant to the Code; and
(vii)
such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be
advi.sed by Bond Counsel as appropriate, to apply for and obtain any tax
credits that may be available to the County as a result of any of the Bonds
qualifying as Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code;
and execution thereof by such Designated Officers, officers and officials is hereby
deemed conclusive evidence of approval thereof with such changes, additions,
insertions, omissions or deletions as such officers may determine, with no further
official action of or direction by the Corporate Authorities ..
F.
UNDERTAKINGS. When any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is
executed and delivered on behalf of the County, it will be binding on the County
and the officers, agents, and employees of the County, and the same are hereby
authorized and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such
documents as may. be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions 'of
such '. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as executed and delivered.
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies for failure to
comply with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the
beneficial owner of.any Bond to seek mandamus or specific performance by court
order,to cause to the County to comply with its obligations thereunder.
G.
OFFERING MATERIALS. The preparation, use and distribution of a
preliminary official statement and an official statement· relating to each sale and
issuance of the Bonds are hereby ratified and approved. The President and Chief
. Financial. Officer are each hereby authorized to execute and deliver an official
statement relating to each sale and issuance of the Bonds on behalf of the County.
The preliminary official statements and official statements herein authorized shall
be in substantially the forms previously used for general obligation financings of
the County with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the
Bonds and to describe accurately the current condition of the County and the
parties to the financing.

a

H.
CREDIT FACILITIES; POLICIES. In connection with any sale of
Series of Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized
to obtain a Credit Facility with one or more financial institutions. The President or
the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement
agreement and to execute and issue a promiSSOry note in connection with the
provisions of each Credit Facility. Any Credit Facility and any reimbursement
agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities and
reimbursement agreements previously entered into by. the 'County in connection
with' the sale of general obligation bonds or notes, but with such revisions in text as
the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or
. desirable, the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial officer to

 FINANCE CoMMITTL . iEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 10
evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions. The
annual fee paid to any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility shall not
exceed one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) of the average principal amount of
such Bonds outstanding during such annual period.
The final fonn Of
reimbursement agreement entered into by the County with respect to a Series of
Bonds shall be attached to the relevant Bond Order filed with the County Clerk
pursuant to this Section. Each such promissory note shall mature not later than
the final maturity date of the Bonds and shall be a general obligation of the County
for the payment of which, both principal and interest,' the County pledges its full
faith, credit and resources. Each such promissory note shall bear interest at a rate
not exceeding 18 percent per annum. The President or the Chief Financial Officer
is hereby authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement,
under the seal of the County affixed and attached by the County Clerk.
In connection with any sale of a Series of the Bonds, the President or the
. Chief Financial: Officer is hereby further authorized to obtain a Policy from an
Insurer if the Chief Financial Officer determines such Policy to be desirable in
connection with such sale of such Series of Bonds or any portion thereof. The
President or Chief Financial Officer is hereby expressly authorized, on behalf of
the County, to make such customary covenants and agreements with such Insurer
as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, as may be required
by such bond insurer, including as follows:

(i) .
Consent to Amendments. That any provision of this
Ordinance expressly recognizing or granting rights in or to any such Insurer
. or to Bondholders generally may not be amended in' any manner which
affects the rights of the Insurer or Bondholders generally without the prior
written consent of the Insurer.
.
(ii)
Notices. That the County may be required
Bond I nsurer information or notices.

to furnish

to the

Ust of Permitted Investments. That the investment of
(iii)
moneys in the various accounts of the Fund may be limited to such list of
lawful investments as may be required by the Insurer; provided, however,
. such list shall include direct obligations of the United States of America and
shares in the Public Treasurers' Investment Pool.
(iv) . Non-Defeasance and Subrogation. That in the event that'
the principal and/or interest due on the Bonds shall be paid by the Insurer
pursuant to a Policy, the Bonds shall remain outstanding for aU purposes,
not be defeased or otherwise satisfied and not be considered paid by the
County,. and the pledge of Net Revenue and all covenants, agreements
and other obligations of the County to the Bondholders shall continue to
exist and shall run to the benefit of the Insurer, and the Insurer shall be
subrogated to the rights of such Bondholders.

 FINANCE COMMITTl tEPORT
MARCH 25,2010
PAGE 11
(v)
Payment Procedure Pursuant to Policy. That so long as the
Policy shall be.in full force and effect, the County and any Paying Agent
and Bond Registrar agree to comply with such reasonable timing and
notice procedures to properly effectuate Bond payment.
(vi)
Control of Proceedings; Vote in Plan. That so long as the
Policy shall be in full force and effect and not in default, the Insurer may
exercise the rights of the registered owners of the Bonds in connection with
the enforcement of all rights and remedies, and may vote the interests of
the owners of such bonds in connection with bankruptcy, reorganization or
insolvency plan or proceeding.
SECTION 3.

PRIOR INCONSISTENT PROCEEDINGS.

All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict
with the provisions of this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby
repealed.
SEC1"ION 4. PASSAGE AND APPROVAL.
PRESENTED, PASSED, ApPROVED AND RECORDED by The County of Cook,
Illinois, a home rule unit of government, this
day pf
, 2010.

* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 03/16110.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the proposed
Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 305686) be approved.
Chairman Daley informed the Committee that there will be amendments introduced, but at this
time. he would like to have Jaye Morgan Williams, Chief Financial Officer, address the
Committee.
,

Chairman Daley stated that during the budget hearings there were opportunities to present
questions regarding the capital budget. Chairman Daley stated further that the Administration
has asked for letters of support from elected officials and these are still being compiled. One
letter of support was receiv\3d from Dorothy Brown, Clerk of the Circuit Court, expressing
support for the issuance of the bonds.
/

Ms. Williams informed the Commissioners that.she would briefly recap what she has discussed
in .individual meetings with the Commissioners during the last several weeks as it relates to
bonding authority. The Administration is requesting bonding authority for projects that were
approved as part of the capital budget for Fiscal Year 2010.
, . In November 2009, the County approved $309 million for capital improvement and $162 million
for capital.equipment. Today bonding authority is sought for a lower portion than that which was
requested for capital during the budgeting cycle. In addition, the request includes approval of
the transaction teams. . Included in the bond issue will be capital improvement, capital
equipment and the short-term notes for the pension fund repayment that was approved in
February.

 FINANCE COMMITTL . iEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 12

Ms. Williams. said that supplemental information was distributed to the Committee at today's 

meeting. Funding for capital improvements is. reduced to $223 million, an $85 million reduction 

from the previously approved sum of $309 million. Capital equipment is also reduced from the 

previously approved sum of $162 million. The current request for capital equipment is $108 

million. 

The $108 million figure for capital equipment is a net figure. It includes a reduction of $60 

million in project cuts and cashflowadjustments, $10 million is savings due to cancellation of the 

mainframe project, .and a $15 million increase to pay for a new Enterprise Resource Planning 

system. 

Ms. Williams stated that the financing team for the refunding proposal may also work on the
short term notes for the pension payment A private placement option is also possible for the
pension payment notes, in which case the financing team would not be needed.
Commissioner Silvestri inquired about ten projects that were previously deferred, but are now
back on the list for funding.
Chairman Daley clarified that Ms. William stated that there are twelve projects, not ten.
Commissioner Silvestri asked specifically why the project for the Daley Center Security Camera .
upgrade is back on. the list after it had been deferred, and if there is an emergency as to why it
needs to be done at this time.
Bruce Washington, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy, responded that the Daley
Center building management has repeatedly asked the Office of Capital Panning and Policy for
updated security camera equipment and monitors.
.
Commissioner Silvestri inquired as to whether the Daley Center had a security camera system
.
already in place.
Mr. Washington responded that the current security system is outdated and does not·
adequately protect the faciUty,particularlyin light of recent threats against judges.
Chairman Daley informed the Committee that a letter has been received from Assessor
Houlihan in support of the bond issue.
Commissioner Collins asked whether or not the County receives federal money from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security.
.
Mr. Washington stated that the County. has received homeland security money, but it has .been
allocated tor other projects, not for Daley Center security.
Commissioner Collins asked if Mr. Washington can check to see if any federal grant funds can
be obtained through the Department of Homeland Security.
Ms. Williams responded that she will check on it.

 FINANCE COMMITTl IEPORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 13

Commissioner Silvestri asked if the capital .improvements at toe health facilities are consistent
with ·the long-term plan that the Health & Hospitals System Board has been developing, and
what are the long.:.term plans for the former Tuberculosis District Administration Building in
Forest Park.
. Mr. Washington stated that the projects at the TB building consist of minor repairs, which are
necessary to prepare the building for eventual sale. All capital projects are consistent with the
System Bo.ard's draft of a new strategic plan.
Commissioner Gorman inquired about the current interest rate environment the bonds are likely
to meet in the marketplace.
. Ms. WiUiams informed' Commissioner Gorman that this is the lowest interest rate environment
that the County has experienced in years. It is an ideal time to go to the market with new bonds,
and to refinance existing bonds.
Commissioner Gorman asked if the bonding team has any speculation of where interest rates
are going.
Ms. Williams asked for leave to have a representative from Loop Capital Markets speak.
Clarence Bourne, Senior Vice President, Investment Banking Division, Loop Capital Markets,
stated that the rates are relatively low and as the economy starts to rebound eventually rates
will rise. He feels this is a good time to lock in long-term rates.

, "'.

Commissioner Schneider reminded .the Committee that the original draft of the master bond
". agreement earmarked about $375 million for capital projects, $260 million ·for self-insurance and
$104 for pensions. Instead, the Board found other ways to fund the self-insurance program and
pension debt. Furthermore, Commissioner Schneider stated that the Administration has
changed the Hstof capital projects in line for funding. For example, Commissioner Schneider
. pointed to a $300,000 parking lot resurfacing project at the County's Hawthorne Warehouse
., which was originally awarded to Infrastructure Engineering, even though it was the highest of
three bids.
'
In response to Commissioner Schneider's remarks, Ms. Williams stated that the request before
the Committee· today is bonding authority to support capital projects that were approved for
inclus,ion in the 2010 budget appropriation .. During the 2010 budget process, $46.1 million was
approved for c;:lpital projects. Ms. Williams stated that she met with each department head,
elected official, and bureau chief to discuss their capital spending needs over the next twelve to
fifteen months., As a result. of those discussions, adjustments have been made to update the
,time schedule and they are now ready to proceed with bond funding for projects that were
already approved by this Board.
Commissioner Suffredin informed the Committee that a Substitute Ordinance Amendment had
, been distributed ..

'. Commissioner Suffredin, seconded .by .Commissioner Murphy, moved to accept the
Substitute Ordinance Amendment for Communication No. 305868. The motion to accept
the substitute carried.

 FINANCE COMMITTE.. ,EPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 14

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 305686
An Ordinance amending an ordinance adopted on the 17th day of
September, 2008, by the Board of Commissioners of The County of
Cook, Illinois.
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners (the "Board') of The County of Cook, Illinois
{the "Countyj, heretofore adopted on the 17th day of September, 2008, an ordinance entitled,
"An Ordinance providing for the issuance of one or more series of General Obligation Bonds of ,
The County of Cook,llIinois" (as most recently amended, the "MasterBondOrdinance;; and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance authorizes the issuance from time to time of
one or more series of general obligation. bonds of the County (being, collectively, the "Bonds');'
and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance provides that the Bonds shall be issued from
time ·to time in one or .more ·series to pay. the costs of the Public Safety Funds Project, the
Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund Project, the Capital Equipment Project, the Insurance
Reserve Project and the Pension Fund Project (each as defined in the Master Bond Ordinance
and being, collectively, the "Projects;, provided that the aggregate principal amount of Bonds
is.suedfor the Projects pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance shall not exceed the amount of
$740,000,000; and
.
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance further provides that of said amount of
$740,000,000, the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for the Public Safety Funds
Project, the Health Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund Project shall not exceed the amount
of $242,943,365 and that the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for the Capital
Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent Decree shall not exceed the sum of $8,466,741
and for the balance of the Capital Equipment Project shall not exceed 'that amount expressly
authorized by the Board; and
"
.
WHEREAS, the County has issued its $251,410,000 Taxable General Obligation .Bonds,
Series 2009B (Build America Bonds.,. Direct Payment). $97,060,000 General Obligation Capital,
Equipment Bonds, Series 20090, and $6,520,000 Taxable General Obligation Bonds,.Series
2009E, the proceeds of which have been appropriated forandal'e being~u..sed to pay said
approved costs of the· Public Safety Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund
Project,' the Capital EqUipment Project related to the Duran .Consent Decree, and the balance of
the Capital Equipment Project heretofore expressly approved by the Board; and
'.,
WHEREAS, incidental to its approval of the 2010 Capital Improvement Program, the·
.Board has further approved capital improvement funding for the Public Safety Funds Project,
the. Health Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund Project in the aggregate amoUnt of
$309,186;390 {being, collectively, the "2010 Public Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate
Fund Projects; and has further approved capital eqUipment funding in .the aggregate amount of
$161,550,340 (together with the 2010 Public Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate Fund
Projects, the "2010 Capital Projects;; and
WHEREAS, the Pension Fund Project includes the settlement and payment of an
outstanding obligation tathe Cook County Annuity and Benefit Fund, and it may be possible to

 FINANCE COMMITTE. ,EPORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 15
achieve a debt service savings by the issuan'ce of Bonds having a maturity of four years or less
to payor reimburse the costs of the Pension Fund Project; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and advisable that the Board further amend the Master Bond
Ordinance to provide for the issuance of Bonds to pay costs of the 2010 Capital Projects and
the Pension Fund Project; and
WHEREAS, Section 11.C of the Master Bond Ordinance now authorizes and directs the
President and the Chief Financial Officer of the County to select a financing team specifically
including Underwriters, Bond Counsel, Trustee, Financial Advisor and other firms and, for any
Series of Refunding Bonds, one or more Escrow Agents and such other firms as necessary to
effect the Refunding,. and to execute and deliver such contracts (including, specifically, a
contract for the purchase of Bonds) .or agreements (including, specifically for any Series of
Refunding Bonds one or more. Escrow Agreements) with the entities selected in connection with
the sale of each Series of the Bonds, provided that the Chief Financial Officer must obtain the
approval of the Board of Commissioners prior to the execution and delivery of any such contract
. or agreement with suc,h Underwriters, Bond Counselor Financial Advisors; a~d
WHEREAS, the County now anticipates issuing one or more series of Bonds in order to
pay approved costs of the 2010 Capital Projects (being,collectively, the "Project Bondsj; and
WHEREAS, favorable current market conditions are expected to enable the County to
refund one or more series of its outstanding general obligation bonds so as to achieve a present
value debt savings, and the County now anticipates issuing one or more series of Bonds in
order to pay costs of such. Refunding (being, coliectivelY,the "Refunding Bonds'); and
WHEREAS, the County also anticipates issuing short-term Bonds.in order to pay the
costs' of the PenSion Fund Project (being the "Pension Fund Bonds" and, together with the
Project Bonds and the Refunding Bonds, collectively, the "2010Bondsj; and
WHEREAS, it is therefore necessary.that the Board approve members of the financing
teams as selected for the 2010 Bonds:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the. Board of Commissioners of The County of
Cook, Illinois, as follows:
SECTION 1.  

AUTHORIZED AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF. PROJECT BONDS
INCREASED.
'

In order to provide for the 2010 Capital Projects and the Pension Fund Project, the
Master Bond Ordinance. be, and it hereby is, amended. to provide that the aggregate principal
amount of the Project Bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance
shall be increased by the sum of $40,000,000.
SECTION 2.  

SECTION 11 AMENDED AND RESTATED.

Section 11 of the Master Bond Ordinance is hereby amended and restated, said
amended and restated Section 11 to read as follows:

 ,

FINANCE COMMITIEE _PORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 16
SECTION 11.  

SALE OF THE BONDS; BOND ORDERS; SELECTION OF FINANCING
OF
DOCUMENTS
TEAMS;
ANNUAL
REPORTS;
EXECUTION
AUTHORIZED; UNDERTAKINGS; OFFERING MATERIALS; CREDIT
FACILITIES.

A.
SALE OF THE BONDS. The Chief Financial Officer is· hereby authorized to sell
all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds to the respective Underwriters from time to
time on such terms as she may deem to be in the best interests of the County and may elect to
designate all or any portion. of the several Series of the Bonds as Build America Bonds and
Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Stimulus Act and have Section 54AA of the Code
(and Section 54AA(g) of the Code· if such bonds are designated as Qualified Build America
.Bonds) apply to same; provided that (i) in each case the Purchase Price shall be at least ninety­
eight percent (98%) of the proceeds of the Bonds (exclusive of any net original issue discount
used in the. marketing of the Bonds, not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof), plus·
accrued interest, if any, on the Bonds from their Dated Date to the date of their issuance, (ii) the
.aggregate amount of principal of and interest on and Maturity Amount of the Bonds (based, for
Variable Rate Bonds, on the reasonable estimate of the Chief Financial Officer as hereinabove·
provided) in any year shall not exceed the aggregate amount levied therefor pursuant hereto
plus capitalized interest, if any, and (iii) as an additional limitation on the sale of the Refunding
Bonds,each such certificate or report (as hereinabove described) must set forth that the
Refunding will provide a present value debt service savings to the County resulting from the
issuance of Refunding Bonds to refund each maturity, or part of a maturity, of the Refunded
Bonds which are chosen to be refunded, which report shall demonstrate that the County will
realize a minimum net present value savings of three percent (3.00%) of the debt service on the
Refunded Bonds being refunded. The Bonds may be sold from time to time as the Chief
Financial Officer shall· determine that the proceeds of such sales are needed. Nothing .
contained in this Ordinance shan limit the sale of the Bonds or any maturity or maturities thereof
at a price or prices in excess of the principal amount thereof. InCidental to each sale of the
several Series of Bonds the Chief Financial Officer shall provide the Corporate Authorities a
written notification of the sale of such Bonds, which notification shall describe such Series of
Bonds in detail.
B.
BOND ORDERS. Subsequent to each such sale· of the Bonds, the Chief
Financial Officer shall file in the office of the County Clerk a Bond Order directed to the
Corporate Authorities identifying (i) the terms of the sale, (ii) the amount of the Bonds being .sold
. as Capital Appreciation Bonds, Convertible CABs or Current Interest Bonds, (iii) the amount of
Bonds being ,sold as Variable Rate Bonds and attaching the related Indenture or Indentures, (iv) .
the Dated Date of the Bonds sold, (v) the aggregate principal amount of Bonds sold, (vi) the
principal amount of Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory redemption in each year, (vii) the
optional redemption provisions applicable to the Bonds sold, (viii) the specific maturities and
principal amounts of Refunded Bonds to be refunded with the proceeds of the Bonds sold, (ix)
.the date on and price at which the Refunded Bonds shall be redeemed (if such redemption shall
occur prior to the maturity date thereof or pursuant to mandatory redemption), (x) the financing
team, including each Bond Counsel, Financial Advisor, Trustee and Underwriter and, for each
Series of Refunding Bonds, the Escrow Agent or Escrow Agents deSignated in cOnnection with.
the Refunding of the relevant Refunded Bonds, (xi) with respect to any Capital AppreCiation
Bonds being sold, the Original Principal Amounts of and Yields to Maturity on such Capital
Appreciation Bonds and a table of Compound Accreted Values per $5,000 Compound Accreted
Value at Maturity for such Capital Appreciation Bonds, setting forth the Compound Accreted.
Value of each such Capital Appreciation Bond on each semiannual compounding date, (xii) the

 FINANCE COMMITTEE ~PORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 17
, interest rate or rates on any Current Interest Bonds sold, or, in the case of any series of Variable
Rate Bonds the estimated rate used to determine the Pledged Taxes for such Variable Rate
Bonds.and a description (which shall be in the relevant Indenture therefor) of the methods of
determining the interest rate applicable to such Variable Rate Bonds from time to time and the
identity of any remarketing agent retained in connection with the issuance of Variable Rate
Bonds, (xiii) the identity of any Insurer, (xiv) the portion, if any, of the Bonds which are not Tax
Exempt, (xv) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility, and (xvi) the information regarding
the title and series designation of the Bonds, together with any other matter authorized by this
, Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale. of the Bonds, and
,thereafter. the Bonds so sold shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner
provided herein and delivered to the respective Underwriters in accordance with the terms of
sale.
C.
SELECTION,OF FINANCING TEAMS. The President and Chief Financial Officer
are each hereby authorized and directed to se,lect a financing team, specifically including
Underwriters, Bond Counsel, Trustee, Financial Advisors and other firms and. for any Series of
Refunding Bonds, one or more Escrow Agents and such other firms as necessary to effect the
Refunding, and to execute and deliver such contracts (including, specifically, a contract for the
purchase of Bonds) or agreements (including, specifically. for any Series of Refunding Bonds
one or more Escrow Agreements) with the entities selected in connection with the sale of each
Series of the Bonds. Each such contract or agreement shall be in substantially the form
previously used for general obligation' financings of the County, with appropriate revisions to
reflect the' terms and provisions. of the Bonds· of each Series and this Ordinance and such other
revisions in text as, the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or
. desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds.   The Chief Financial Officer shall obtain the
approval of the Corporate Authorities prior to the execution and delivery of any such contract or
agreement with such Underwriters. Bond Counselor Financial Advisors.
The Board hereby expressly approves the. financing teams for the 2010 Bonds as
follows:

I.

FOR THE PRO..IECT BONDS:
Lead Managers:

Loop Capital Markets; LLC (M/WBE)

Co-Lead Managers:

Bank of America

CO-Managers:

Barclays Capital
Ramirez & Co. (MBE)
Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. (M/WBE)
Stifel Nicolaus

Lead Rnancial Advisor:'

Gardner, Underwood & Bacon, LLC (MBE)

Co-Financial Advisor:

A.C. Advisory (M/WBE)

Bond Counsel:

Chapman and Cutler LLP

 FINANCE COMMITTEE" -"PORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 18
Co-Bond Counsel:

Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt, P.C. (MBE) 


Underwriters Counsel:

Perkins Coie LLP 


Co-Underwriters Counsel: Tyson Strong Hill Connor, LLP (MBE) 

II.  

FOR THE REFUNDING BONDS AND THE PENSION FUND BONDS
Lead Managers:

Morgan Stanley

Co-Lead Managers:

Rice Financial Products Company (MBE)

Co-Managers:

Cabrera Capital Markets, LLC '(MBE)
Citigroup
J. P. Morgan
William Blair & Company

Lead Financial Advisor:

Gardner, Underwood & Bacon, LLC (MBE)

Co-Financial Advisor:

Peralta Garcia Solutions (MlWBE)

Bond Counsel:

Chapman and Cutler LLP ,

Co-Bond Counsel:
Underwriters Counsel:

. Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt, P.C. (MBE)
Perkins Coie LLP

Co-Underwriters Counsel: Tyson Strong Hill Connor, LLP (MBE)

provided, however, that in the event the· Pension Fund Bonds are not sold at a negotiated sale,
Dexia is hereby approved as the purchaser of said Pension Fund Bonds.
D.
ANNUAL REPORTS. On or before each .November 30, commencing the
November 30 following the first sale of any Bonds pursuant to this Ordinance, the Chief
Financial Officer shall provide a written statement to. the Corporate Authorities setting forth in
summary form the details of each relevant Bond Order filed with the County Clerk from and after
the preceding December 1.
E.EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS AUTHORIZED. Any Designated .Officer and
such other officers and officials of the County as may be necessary are hereby authorized to
execute sl,lch other documents, as may be necessary to implement the Projects and the
Refunding and to effect the issuance and delivery and maintenance·of the status of the Bonds,
including but not limited to:

 FINANCE COMMITIEE J:lORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 19
(i)
those certain contracts of purchase (each, a "Purchase Contract', by and
between the.Countyand the Underwriters, which Purchase Contracts shall be in form
acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;

(ii)
as necessary in connection with any Refunding, those certain Escrow
Agreements by and between the County and the Escrow~gent or Escrow Agents, such
agreements to be. provided by Bond Counsel, which Escrow Agreements shall be in form
acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;
. (iii).
as necessary in connection with the issuance of any Series of Variable
Rate Bonds, one ormore Indentures, which Indentures shall be in form acceptable to the
Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;

.,

(iv)
those certain Continuing Disclosure Undertakings, each as approved by
the Chief Financial Officer and each in form customarily used by the County,to effect
compliance with Rule 15c2.,.12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(v)
such certification, ta~ returns and documentation as may be required by
Bond Counsel, including, speCifically, a tax agreement, to render their opinions as to the
Tax Exempt status of the interest on any Tax Exempt Bonds or the qualification of a
· portion of the Bonds as Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code;
. (vi). such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be advised by
Bond Counsel as appropriate, to establish and maintain the Tax Exempt status of the
· interest on any Tax Exempt Bonds and the qualification of a portion of the Bonds as
QuaUfied Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code; and

•.

i

(vii)
such certification, tax returns and documentation ~s may be advised by
· Bond Counsel as appropriate, to apply for and obtain any tax credits that may be
avail.able to the County as a result of any of the Bonds qualifying as Qualified Build
America Bonds pursuant to the Code;
and execution thereof by such DeSignated Officers, officers and officials is hereby deemed
conclusive evidence. of approval thereof with such changes, additions, insertions, omissions or
deletions as such officers may determine, with no further official action of or direction by the
Corporate Authorities.
.

F.
UNDERTAKINGS. When any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed
. and deliver.edon behalf of the County, it will be binding on the County and the officers, agents,
and employees of the County, and the same are hereby authorized and directed to do all such
acts and. things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and
comply with the provisions of such Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as executed and
. delivered. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies for failure to comply
with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial owner of any
. Bond. to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order, to cause to the County to
comply with its obligations thereunder.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE

.?ORT

MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 20

G.
OFFERING MATERIALS. The preparation, use and distribution of a preliminary
official statement and an official statement relating to each sale and issuance of the Bonds are
hereby ratified and approved. The President and Chief Financial Officer are each hereby
authorized to execute and deliver an official statement relating to each sale and issuance of the
Bonds ·on behalf of .the ·County. The preliminary official statements ·and official statements
herein authorized shall be in substantially the forms previously used for general obligation
financings of the County with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the
Bonds and to describe accurately the current condition of the County and the parties to the
financing.
H.
CREDIT FACILITIES; POLICIES. In connection with any sale of a Series of
Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to obtain a Credit
Facility with one or more financial institutions. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is
hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement agreement and to execute and issue a
promissory note in connection with the provisions of each Credit Facility.. Any Credit Facility/and
any reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities and
reimbursement agreements previously entered into by the County in connection with the sale of
general obligation bonds or notes; but with such revisions in text as the President or the Chief
Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the
President or the Chief Financial Officer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of
all such revisions. The annual fee paid to any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility
shall not exceed one .and one-quarter percent (1.25%) of the average principal amount of such
Bonds outstanding during such annual period. The final form of reimbursement agreement
entered into by the County with respect to a Series of Bonds shall be attached to the relevant
Bond Order filed with the County Clerk pursuant to this Section. Each such promissory note
shall mature not later than the final maturity date of the Bonds and shall be a general obligation
of the County for the payment of which, both principal and interest,the County pledges its full
faith, credit and resources. Each such promissory note shall bear interest at a rate not
exceeding 18 percent per annum. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement, under the seal of the
County affixed
and attached by the County Clerk.
,
In connection with any sale of a Series of the Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby further..authorized to obtain a Policy from an Insurer if the Chief· Financial
Officer determines such Po.licy to. be desirable in connection with such sale of such Series of
Bonds or any portion thereof. The President or Chief Financial Officer is hereby expressly
authorized, on behalf of the County, to make such customary covenants and agreements with
such Insurer as. are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, as may be required
by such bond insurer, including as..follows:
(i)
Consent to Amendments. . That any provision of· this Ordinance expressly
recognizing or granting rights in or to any such Insurer or to Bondholders generally may
not be amended in any manner which affects the rights of the Insurer or Bondholders
generally without the prior written consent of the Insurer.
Notices. That the County may be required to furnish to the Bond Insurer
(ii)
information or notices.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE
.PORT
MARCH 25,2010

PAGE 21

(iii)
List of Permitted Investments. That the investment of moneys in the
various accounts of the Fund may be limited to such list of lawful investments as may be
required by the Insurer; provided, however, such list shall include direct obligations of
the United States of America and shares in the Public Treasurers' Investment Pool.
(iv)
Non-Defeasance and Subrogation. That in the event that the principal
and/or interest due on the Bonds shall be paid by the Insurer pursuant to a Policy, the
Bonds shall remain outstanding for all pLirposes, not be defeased or otherwise satisfied
and not be considered paid by the County, and the pledge of Net Revenue and all
covenants, agreements and other obligations of the County to the Bondholders shall
continue to exist and shall run· to the benefit of the Insurer, and the Insurer shall be
subrogated to the rights of such Bondholders.

Payment Procedure Pursuant to Policy. That so long as the Policy shall
(v)
be in full force and effect, the County and any Paying Agent and Bond Registrar agree to
. comply with such reasonable timing and notice procedures to properly effectuate Bond
payment.
Contr%f Proceedings; Vot~ in Plan. That so long as the Policy shall be
(vi)
in full force and effect and not in default, the Insurer may exercise the rights of the
registered owners of the Bonds in' connection with the enforcement of all rights and
remedies, and may vote the interests of the owners of such bonds in connection with
bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency plan or proceeding.
SECTION 3.·

PRIOR INCONSISTENT PROCEEDINGS.

All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
. provisions ofthisOrdinance j are to the extent of such confliCt hereby repealed.
SECTION 4.

PASSAGE AND APPROVAL.

PRESENTED, PASSED, APPROVED AND RECORDED by The County of Cook,
lIIinois,.a home rule unit of government, this
th day of April, 2010.
Commissioner Suffredin introduced the following amendment:
AMENDMENT TO SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE (COMM. NO. 305686) 


. Sponsored by 

THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, 

EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, 

JOAN P. MUPRHY, EDWIN REYES, DEBORAH SIMS AND LARRY SUFFREDIN 

. 
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Section 11 (A) is hereby amended as follows:
Section 11.  

Sale of the Bonds; Bond Orders; Selection of Financing Teams; Annual Reports;
Execution of Documents Authorized; Undertakings; Offering Materials; Credit
Facilities.
.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE .PORT
MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 22
A.
SALE OF THE BONDS. The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell
all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds to the respective Underwriters from time to
. time on such terms as she may deem to be in the best interests of the County and may elect to
designate all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds as Build America Bonds and
Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Stimulus Act and have Section 54AA of the Code
(and Section 54AA(g) of the. Code if such bonds are designated as Qualified Build America
Bonds) apply to same; provided that (i) in each case the Purchase Price shall be at least ninety­
eight percent (98%) of the proceeds of the Bonds (exclusive of any net original issue discount
used in the. marketing of the Bonds, not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof), plus
accrued interest, if any, on the Bonds from their Dated Date to the date of their issuance, (ii) the
aggregate amount of principal of and interest on and Maturity Amount of the Bonds (based, for
Variable Rate Bonds, on the reasonable estimate of the Chief Financial Officer as hereinabove
provided) in any year shall not exceed the aggregate amount levied therefore pursuant hereto
plus capitalized interest, if any, (iii) the aggregate par amount of Bonds to be sold pursuant to
the Master Bond Ordinance shall be limited as follows: (al for the Public Safety Funds Project,
the Health Fund Project. and the Corporate Fund Project, collectively. the aggregate par amount
shall not exceed the sum of $242,943,365 for 2009 Project Bonds and $223,908,924 for 2010 .
Project Bonds: (bl for the Capital Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent Decree, the
aggregate par amount shall not exceed the sum of $8,466,741 for 2009 Project Bonds: (c) for
the balance'of the Capital Equipment Project, the aggregate paramount shall not exceed the
sum of $106.034,599 for 2009 Project Bonds and $107,989,289 for.2010 Project Bonds; and (d)
for the Pension Project, the aggregate par amount shall not exceed the sum 01'$80,000.000 for
·2010 Project Bonds: and·tm1 (iv) as an additional limitation on the sale of the Refunding Bonds,
each ,such certificate .or report (as hereinabove described) must set forth that the Refunding will
provide a present value debt service savings to the County resulting from the issuance of
Refunding Bonds to refund each maturity, or part of a maturity, of the Refunded Bonds which
are chosen. to be refunded, which report shall demonstrate that the County will realize a
minimum net present value savings of three percent (3.00%) of the debt service on the
Refunded Bonds being refunded. The Bonds may be sold from time to time as the Chief
. . Financial Officer shall determine that the proceeds of. such sales are needed. Nothing
contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale of the Bonds or any maturity or maturities thereof
at a price or prices in excess of the principal amount thereof. Incidental to each sale of the
several Series of Bonds the Chief Financial Officer shall provide the Corporate Authorities a
written .' notification of the sale of such Bonds, Which notification shall describe such Series of
,,
Bonds in detail.'

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded' by Commissioner Steele, moved to amend Sect.ion 11
(A) of the. Substitute Ordinance Amendment, indicated above with underlined and
stricken text. The motion to amend carried.
'
Commissioner Suffredin thanked the President's staff and Ms. Williams for the work over the
,last Week in ,gOing through in detail this Master Bond Agreement, and also thanked Chairman
Daleyfor the time he has spent on The Master Bond Agreement.
Commissioner Suffredin stated that a more improved ordinance is now before the
.. Commissioners which does a number of things that the Commissioners have asked to be done
in the past~ 1) it specifies the specific amounts in Section 11 (A) so that there is no question' as
to what monies are being spent .and what the purpose is' for their spending; and 2) as the
County Board, the corporate authority, has always done, is approve the teams and all of the
bonds,and it has now been amended that the teams are in the Substitute Bond Ordinance.

 FINANCE COMMITIEE .PORT
MARCH 25, 2010

PAGE 23

Commissioner Suffredin gave the Commissioners three reasons to approve the Master Bond
Agreement today:

1) $8 million WaS spent a year ago to help the Sheriff make some improvements and
.because of that investment the County is on the verge of being relieved from responsibility for
Duran and for Harrington which are two cases that have lingered on the County Board for over
twenty-five years and have cost hundreds of millions of dollars to the people of Cook County.
Commissioner Suffredin stated that the Sheriff says it best in his letter that these bond
,improvements are essential for him to continue to make progress and to end the oversight of a
. federal judge over the County Board and the jail system;
.

2), regarding the letter that was received from Warren Batts, Chairman of the Cook"
County Health and Hospitals System Board, Commissioner Suffredin stated that he
acknowledges the Healthcare System which in the last year and a half has made major strides
, to right its 'financial ship to be able to collect its bUlson time; it has indicated to the County Board
the essential eqUipment it needs to provide care to the growing number of people of Cook
County who are going to the County's health care system. Two years ago the healthcare system
wa~ at about 750,000, patient visits per year, and now the healthcare systemJs near a million; it
.
reflects the economy, it reflects the state of healthcare; and
3) regarding the letter from Assessor Houlihan, Commissioner Suffredin stated that there
isa lot of discussion as to when tax bills will be issued and how local units of government will be
. affected who are depending upon. the County's collection of property taxes to run their schools,
park district, cities arid libraries. CommissionerSuffredin stated that there are series of
prpblems because of the. large number of appeals reflective of the economy; what this does in
. these capital requests for the various offices is give them the technology and assistance they
need to make sure that the citizens of Cook County receive their tax bills fairly, correctly and on
time so that the governments that are below Cook County who need that money do not have to .
borrow the money to make sure they make payroll.

CommissionerSuffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Substitute
Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 305686) be approved and adopted, as
amended. Commissioner Suffredin called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being
as follows: .
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE AS AMENDED
Yeas:  

Commissioners Beavers, . Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer,. Moreno,' Murphy,
Reyes, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Chairman Daley (12) .

Nays:  

GommissionersGorman, Goslin, Schneider and Silvestri (4)

Absent:  

Commissioner Peraica (1)'

The motion carried and the Substitute Ordinance Amendment (Comm. No. 305686) was
APPROVED AS AMENDED.
.
.
.

 FINANCE COMMITIEE

_PORT

MARCH 25, 2010
PAGE 24
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to reconsider the
vote by which the Substitute Ordinance Amendment (Comm., No. 305686) as amended
was approved. A Roll Call was taken,the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO RECONSIDER
Yeas:

Commissioners Gorman, Goslin, Schneider and Silvestri '(4)

Nays:

Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Moreno, Murphy,:
Reyes, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Chairman Daley (12)

Absent

Commissioner Peraica (1)

The motion to reconsider failed and the Substitute Ordinance Amendment as amended
was APPROVED.
Commissioner Silvestri,. seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved to adjourn. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATrER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 305673
Communication Number 305674
Communication .Number 305686

Approved
Approved
Substitute Approved As Amended

Respectfully submitted, .
Committee on Financ.e

Attest:

. . '.

~75~




The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
­
Clark Street. Room 567. Chicago,lL 60602.

 J. Daley Center
Moom 1001
Chicago, Illinois 60602
(312) 603-5030
FAX (312) 6034557
www.cookcountyclerkofcourt.org
RiC

DOROTHY SF.
CLERK OF THE CIRCUn 'COURT

OFFICE OF THE CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY

March 24,2010

Honorable Todd H. Strog.er, President 

Cook County Board of Commissioners 

118 N. Clark Street, Room 537 

Chicago, Illinois 60602 

Dear President Stroger:
Please accept this letter in support of the issuance of 'bonds related to the proposed
ordinance on the Cook County Finance Committee agenda on March 25, 2010, to fund
the County's 2010 capital needs.

, "

We support this bond issue because it will also fund the Clerk's Office needs to ensure
our continuous effort to improve the Clerk's Office.
Thank_you for your assistance regarding this matter. If you have any questions, please
contact me at (312) 603-5071 or have a member of your ,staff contact Mr. Wasiu
Fashina, Chief Financial Officer/ Comptroller at (312) 603-5044.
Sincerely,

~~B!~
.clerk of the Circuit Court

cc:  

Honorable John P. Daley 

Cook County Board of Commissioners 

Jay Morgan Williams-Chief Financial Officer 

Gail Lutz, Chief of Staff- Clerk of the Circuit Court 

Wasiu Fashina, Chief Financial Officer/Comptroller 


 PHONE (312) 603-6444

SHERIFF'S OFFICE OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS 

RICHARD J. DALEY CENTER 

50 W. WASHINGTON - ROOM704 

CHICAGO, IL 60602 


THOMAS J. DART
SHERIFF

March 25, 2010

The Honorable Todd H. Stroger
President of the County Board
118 North Clark, Room 537
Chicago, IL60606
Dear President Stroger:
It has come to my attention that the Cook County Board of Commissioners will be meeting this
week to consider an ordinance concerning the
. issuance of Master Bongs. The funding ofCapital
Projects is essential to the Cook County Sheriffs Office.
.

Asyou are aware, the Office of the Sheriff, the Board of Commissioners, and the President of
Cook County have an obligation to meet requirements set by the Duran COilsent Decree and the
proposed agreed order with the Department ofJustice. If requirements are not met, the period of
federal monitoring over the Department of Corrections could be extended beyond the four (4)
years envisioned by the proposed agreed order. I understand the burden-on the President and the
Commissioners to allocate the necessary funding. However, it would be beyond regrettable to
negate the important progress we have made by tenninating the Duran Consent Decree and the
Department of Justice case.
The Sheriff s Office currently has over twenty (20) capital planning projects that were approved
as part of the FY201 0 Budget (AttacIllnent 1). Many of the proposed projects are crucial to
.maintain compliance. In addition, the funding of the Capital ProjeCts is necessary to provide
vital service and safety to the citizens of Cook County.

 In conclusion, if we do not find the means to proceed with the Capital Projects for the Cook
County Sheriffs Office, the advancements we have made may be forgotten and the closure to the
federal cases that we are all involved in, may be threatened. I am extending my full support of
this ordinance, as it relates to the Sheri:fP s Office capital initiatives.
Please contact my office should you require any additional information on this topic.

Thomas J. Dart '""---.'--­
Sheriff of Cook County

 OFFICE OF T,HE ASSESSOR 

COOK COUNTY IL.L.INOIS 


CHICAGO 60602 

, JAMES

M. HOUL.IHAN

ASSESSO~

March 24, 2010
Todd Stroger 

President 

Cook county Board of Commissioners 

118 North Clark Street
'
'

Chicago, iL 60602 

Dear Mr. President,
On March 25, 2010, ,the'Finance Committee of the Board of Commissioners will be considering an
Ordinance Amending the Master Bond Ordina!,,!ce. The Proposed Ordinance amends the Ordinance
, adopted onSeptember 17, 2008 to pay costs of 2010 capital projects and pension fund projects.,
, . As you know,'the 2010 capital projectS 9f the ,Assessor's Office are a very small, part of the capital
, ,equiprru:!nt project appropriation. Less than ,0.1% of the total $161,550,34.0 total has been allotted to
the Assessoi'sOffice for capital improvements. At all times and in patticularly difficLilteconomic times,
County go~.rnment of course must be wary of unnecessary expenditures, both capital,and operating,
limiting,expenditures to those'that are truly needed. For this reason, the Assessor'S Office has limited its
request to items that require replacement, in accordance with County policies.
'n order to :a'ccomplish these necessary replacements,', extend my support for iSsuance ofthe bonds to,
finance the Assessor'sOfflce capital expenditures.
'
,

'

'

If you have any questions about the above, please contact me or my Chief Deputy, MichaeJ.Stone.

. .

".

"

'.

.

~ 


I


CC:

'Cook County Board of'Commissioners
", ..' Jaye,Wmiams, ChiefFinancialOffice~ .. " ,.
"

::"

:

\

..

".'

-";:-,

it

'.

..

-.,'

:', .

:

.'.~.

';

",

.

',' ,,' ..

,'"

• •1

•

"

,

 <

.


State of Illinois 

Circuit Court of Cook County 

2600 Richard J. Daley Center
chicago, Illinois 60602
(312) 603-6000

Chambers of

,Timothy C. Evans
Chief Judge

March 25, 2010

Honorable Todd H. Stroger, President
Honorable Members of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners
'118 North Clark Street
Room 537
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Dear Mesdames and Gentlemen:
During Cook County's 2010 budget process, my office requested and received Cook Q:mnty
Board approval for capital equipment and capital projects, all of which !'lIe' necessary to the operation of
,the court and its thirteen non-judicialoffices that provide important court related services.
Included among, the thirteen non-judicial offices are the Adult Probation Department, the
Expedited Child Support Center, Forensic Clinical Services, Office ofInterpreter Services, Office of Jury
. Administration, Juvenile CourtClinic, Juvenile Probation and Court Services Departrnent"Marriage and
: Family Counseling S~rvice~, Mandatory Arbitration, Parenting Education Program, Office of the Public
Guardian; Office of Official Court Reporters and Social Service Department
Pursuant to a request from Jaye Morgan Williams; Cook County chief financial officer, I
,herewith reiterate the court's 2010 capital equipment and capital project requests.
The court' s approved 2010 capital equipment requests encompass the following:
'. ne)¥ computers, printers and software to replace outdated or obsolete equipment;
• new vehicles to replace those with more than 100,000 miles;
• telecommunications equipment; and
•

new office furnishings and equipment to replace broken or damaged items.

The court's approved 2010 capital projects are as follows: '
,. expansion ofthe parking lot in th~ Sixth Municipal District in south suburban Markham
to a<::commodate the increase in litigants attending that court facility;

 PresidentStroger 

Cook County Board Members 

. March 25, 2010 

Page 2 

•   construction of two (2) courtrooms and judicial chambers in the Sixth Municipal District
court facility in south suburban Markham to accommodate the increased case load in that
district ofthe court;
•   construction of one new jury courtroom, two judicial chambers and one ante chambers in
the Second Municipal District in north suburban Skokie;
•   construction of five (5) additional courtrooms and judicial chambers in the Richard 1.
Daley Center to accommodate the increase in mortgage foreclosure cases in the Chancery
Division;
•   construction..oLa.children's..Adv.ocacy.Room-in--the-Tiaird Municipal District court
. facility in Rolling Meadows;
th
•   construction of a Children's Advocacy Room in the Criminal Court Building at 26 and
California in Chicago; and
•   a county-wide courthouse feasibility study to assess usage and efficiency.

I hope this information is helpfuL As always, I~ppreciate your sensitivity to the needs of the 

court and look forward to your continuing assistance and support. 

. Sincerely,
p

;)~.
.   Timothy C. Evans
Chief Judge.
Circuit Court of Cook County
TCE:rmm
. C:
Jaye Morgan Williams




 Office of \'~le CountyCle; K 

David Orr, Cook County Clerk

March 23,2010
Todd H. Stroger
. President, Cook County Board of Commissioners 

118 N. Clark St., 5th floor 

Chicago, 11. 60602 

Dear President Stroger:

It is my understanding that a meeting is currently scheduled for Thursday, March 25, 

..2010 to discuss the issuance of bonds to support the approved capital requests for . 

FY201O. 

,The Clerk'sOffice currently has three FY2010 approved capital projects. Project 

timelines are currently on hold pending the issuance of these bonds. Theseprojects 

. include the upgrade of an accounting system that handles well over $200 million dollars
inTax Redemption Funds and approximately $10 million dollars annually in county
revenue.
We'very much would like to see these projects get underway and hope that the issuance
of these bonds will happen soon. If there is anything I can do to answer questions .
regarding these projects or support Thursday's initiative requesting the authority to issue
bonds. please feel free to call.
'
.
~cerely,

,

I .

r-\·
J-I

:'-.JA: 1/ {q O/VDavid Orr 

Cook County Clerk 


cc:  

Cook County Finance Committee 

Ms. Jaye Williams, Chief Financial Officer 


69 West Washington, 5th. Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60602 ,
.Voice: M~in Office 312-603-5656, Elections 312-603-0906, Ethics" Campaign Disclosure 312-603-0907
Fax: Main Office 312-603-9788, Elections 312-603-9766, Ethics &Campaign Disclosure 312-603-9787,
TOD: 312-603-0902, E-Mail: dorr@cookctyclerk.com;Web:wwW;cookctyclerk.com

 Law Office ofthe
COOK COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER
69 W WASHINGTON· 161H FLOOR· CmCAGO, lL 60602 • (312) 603-0600
Hon. Abishi C. Cunningham, Jr. (Ret.) • Public Defender

March 24, 2010 _
Hon Todd H. Stroger, President 

Cook County Board ofCommissi9ners 

118 N. Clark Street"; Room 531 

Chicago, IL 60602 

Dear President Stroger, .
I am writing to apprise you ofthe capital needs ofthe Law Office of the Cook CoUnty Public
Defender. fu so doing I 8m adding my support to the issuance of bonds to fund year 2010 cap~tal
needs.
'

Our Office's capital needs for year 2010 are less costly than those for last year, but they are.
no less important. ·In keeping with our on-going efforts to modernize the Criminal Division of
the Cook County Court Syste~ we have requested funds to purchase'necessary softWare
upgrades and replacements for approximately one-thi:1;d of our computers, as well as certain "
copiers and scanners., These units are obsolete and extremely unreliable; they do,not support the' ,
" upgraded county software. 'We have requested funds to retire and replace old and potentially
dangerous furniture at two our business units as well as funds to purchase six new vehicles to
replace cars that are nine to eleven years ,old.

of

These capital needs are the minimum needed to keep our office functioning efficiently at this
time. I would like'to add that many ofthese capital improvements will effect cost savings in the ,
long run, since they will result in reduction in paper and increased electronic storage of
infonnation.
I believe the issuance of bonds to fund our capital needs would greatly expedite this year's. 

process and hope that you will support ~ch a bond issue.
'

,

, .

/7'
"~~I~'~'·~

,Sincerely,'

Jio:'-~bishi C. Cunningham, Jr.

Public Defender

cc: Cook County Board ofCommissioners
, Joseph Fratto, ChiefofStaff
Jaye Williams, ChiefFinancial Officer

 Maria Pappas· 

Cook County. Treasurer

March 25, 2010

President Todd Stroger
Cook County Building
118 N.  Clark Street, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
.
Dear President Stroger:
This letter selVes as notice that I will not require corporate account capital funding for
2010. The Treasurer's Office 534 automation account has sufficient revenues to fund
automation-related capital spending.
.
The $5 Duplicate Bill Fee,which· the Board supported, is the revenue source for our
capital expenditures. As a result, we do not require additional funding through a bond
issuance.

·If you have any questions, please contact me at (312)

603~6202.

Maria Pappas
Cook County Treasurer
MP:db
cc:  

Board of Commissioners
Mr. Joseph Fratto, Chief of Staff
Ms. Jaye Williams, Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Takashi Reinbold, Budget Director

118 North Clark Street. Room 212 • Chicago, IL 60602
www.cookcountytreasurer.com

 #305674 

ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
LAW LIBRARY FILING FEE
WHEREAS, 55 ILCS 5/5-39001 authorizes the clerk of all civil trial courts at the county seat of
government to collect a filing fee to defray the cost of operating and maintaining a county law
library; and
WHEREAS, P.A. 96-0227, effective August 11, 2009, authorizes counties in Illinois to increase
the County Law Library Filing Fee to def.ray the cost of operating and maintaining law libraries,
. from the current maximum of $13, to maximums of $18 in 2009, $19 in 2010 and $21 in 2011;
and
WHEREAS, P.A. 96-0227 was supported by many other counties around the state including:
DeKalb, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Lake, Madison, McHenry, McLean, St. Clair, Tazewell, Will
and Winnebago Counties; and
WHEREAS, prior to enactment of P.A. 96-0227, the General Assembly only increased the
maximum filing fee by three dollars, during the previous 20 years, which is less than half of the
CPI increase during that same time period; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board last authorized an increase in the filing fee for the Law
Library in 2004; and
WHEREAS, thirteen dollars ha$ been inadequate in defraying the costs of operating and
.maintaining the County Law Library; and
WHEREAS, the Law Library's budget has decreased by $1.8 million (25%) which has led to a
reduction in the Library's staff by15 positions (24%) over the past five years; and
WHEREAS, a misperception exists that all rel.evant legal information is freely available online to
the average citizen, when, the average citizen does not have subscriptions to online legal
. publications; and
WHEREAS, county law libraries provide the· general public with access to justice, which
includes both print and electronic legal information and research assistance they would not be
able to access anywhere else; and
WHEREAS, Cook County's Law Library is a National Hub Law Library which provides citizens
with access to over a quarter of a million print titles and several online legal databases and with
seven branch libraries, it is the only law library in the area that isfr~ely available to all people
without restriction; and

 WHEREAS, other counties, law library filing fees are much higher than Cook County's, for
example: Los Angeles' filing fee, a similarly sized county, is $24, Sacramento, California ($50);
San Francisco, California ($42); San Diego, California ($38); Alameda, California ($37); EI
Paso, Texas ($35); King, Washington ($20); and Wayne, Michigan ($20); and
WHEREAS, the Cook County, Law Library has the vision of being able to more efficiently reach
our constituency through technology and,' is in the process of migrating to a new online
integrated library management system.
NOW, THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule. 


The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown 

below: 

Code Section

Description,

Fees, Rates, Charges (in dollars)

CHAPTER 50, LIBRARIES
50-31 (b)

County Law Library fee

Effective Date: This Amended Ordinance shall be effective one month after adoption.
Approved and adopted this,-,-,__ day of April 2010.

 ## 305686 SUBSTITUTE AS AMENDED
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

An Ordinance amending an ordinance adopted on the 17th day of
September, 2008, by the Board of Commissioners of The County of
Cook, Illinois.
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners (the "Board') of The County of Cook, Illinois
(the "County), heretofore adopted on the 17th day of September, 2008, an ordinance entitled,
"An Ordinance providing for the issuance of one or more series of General Obligation Bonds of
The County of Cook, Illinois" (as most recently amended, the "Master Bond Ordinancej; and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance authorizes the issuance from time to time of
one or more series of general obligation bonds of the County (being, collectively, the "Bondsj;
and
WHEREAS, the Master Bond Ordinance provides that the Bonds shall be issued from
time to time in one or more series to pay the costs of the Public Safety Funds Project, the
Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund Project, the Capital Equipment Project, the Insurance
Reserve Project and the Pension Fund Project (each as defined in the Master Bond Ordinance
and being, collectively, the "Projectsj, provided that the aggregate principal amount of BOnds
issued .for the Projects pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance shall not exceed the amount of
$740,000,000; and
WHEREAS, .' the Master Bond Ordinance further provides that of said amount of
$740,000,000, the aggregate principal amount of Bonds issued for the Public Safety Funds
Project, the Health FLind Project, and the Corporate Fund Project shall not exceed the amount
of $242,943,365 and that the aggregate prinCipal amount of Bonds issued for the Capital
Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent Decree shall not exceed the sum of $8,466,741
and for the balance of the Capital Equipment Project shall not exceed that amount expressly
authorized by the Board; and
WHEREAS, the County has issued its $251,410,000 Taxable General Obligation Bonds,
Series 2009B (Build America Bonds - Direct Payment), $97,060,000 General Obligation Capital
Equipment Bonds, Series2009D,and $6,520,000 Taxable General Obligation Bonds, Series
2009E j the proceeds of. which have. been appropriated for and are being used to pay said
approved costs of the Public Safety Funds Project, the Health Fund Project, the Corporate Fund
Project, the Capital Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent'Decree, and the balance of
the Capital Equipment Project heretofore expressly approved by the Board; and
WHEREAS, incidental to its approval of the 2010 Capital Improvement Program, the
Board has further approved capital improvement funding for the Public Safety Funds Project,
the Health Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund Project in the aggregate amount of
$309,186,390 (being, collectively, the '2010 Public Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate
Fund Projects') and has further approved capital eqUipment funding in the aggregate amount of

 $161 ,550,340 (together with the 2010 Public Safety Fund, Health Fund and Corporate Fund
Projects, the "2010 Capital Projects'); and
WHEREAS, the Pension Fund Project includes the settlement and payment of an
outstanding obligation to the Cook County Annuity and Benefit Fund, and it may be possible to
. achieve a debt service savings by the issuance of Bonds having a maturity of four years or less
to payor reimburse the costs of the Pension Fund Project; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and advisable that the Board further amend the Master Bond
Ordinance to provide for the issuance of Bonds to pay costs of the 2010 Capital Projects and
the Pension Fund Project; and

." "

WHEREAS, Section 11;C of the Master Bond Ordinance now authorizes and directs the
President and. the Chief Financial Officer of the County to select a financing team specifically
including Underwriters, Bond Counsel, Trustee, Financial Advisor and other firms and, for any
, Series of Refunding Bonds, one or more· Escrow Agents and such other firms as necessary to
effect the Refunding, and to execute and deliver such contracts (including, specifically, a
contract for the purchase of Bonds) or agreements (including, specifically for any Series of
" Refunding Bonds one or more Escrow Agreements) with the entities selected in connection with
the sale of each Series of the Bonds, provided that the Chief Financial Officer must obtain the
.approval of the Board of Commissioners prior to the executi.on and delivery of any such contract
or agreement with such Underwriters, Bond Counselor Financial Advisors; and

. ;'

,

.;.

.WHEREAS, the County now antiCipates issuing one or more series of Bonds in order to
pay approved costs of the 2010 Capital Projects (being, collectively, the "Project Bonds'); and
WHEREAS, favorable current market conditions are expected to enable the County to
. . refund one or more series of its outstanding general obligation bonds so as to achieve a present
value debt savings, and the County now antiCipates issuing one or more series of Bonds in
, order to pay costs of such Refunding (being, collectively, the "Refunding Bonds'); and
WHEREAS, the County also 'antiCipates issuing short-term Bonds in order to pay the
'. cOsts 'Of the Pension Fund Project (being the "Pension Fund Bonds" and, together with the
· Project Bonds and the Refunding Bonds, collectively, the 1/2010 Bonds"; and
·WHEREAS,.it is therefore necessary that the Board approve members of the financing
teams as selected for the 201 0 Bonds:
. NOW THEREFORE BE 11 ORDAINED. by the Board of Commissioners of The County of
Cook, Illinois, as follows:
· 'SECTION 1.  

;, .'

AUTHORIZED AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF PROJECT BONDS
INCREASED.

In order to provide for the 2010 Capital Projects and the Pension Fund Project, the
Master Bond Ordinance be~ and it hereby is, amended to provide that the aggregate principal
amount of the Project Bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to the Master Bond Ordinance
· shall be increased by the sum of $40,000,000.
SECTION 2;

SECTION 11 AMENDED AND RESTATED.

 Section 11 of the Master. Bond Ordinance is hereby amended and restated, said
amended and restated Section 11 to read as follows:
SECTION 11. ,  

SALE OF THE BONDS; BOND ORDERS; SELECTION OF FINANCING
EXECUTION; OF
DOCUMENTS
TEAMS;
ANNUAL
REPORTS;
AUTHORIZED; UNDERTAKINGS; OFFERING MATERIALS; CREDIT
FACILITIES.

A.
SALE OF THE BONDS. The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell
all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds to the respective Underwriters from time to
time on such terms as she may deem to be in the best interests of the County and may elect to
, designate all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds as Build America Bonds and 

Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Stimulus Act and have Section 54AA of the Code 

(and Section 54AA(g) of the Code if such bonds are designated as Qualified Build America 

,Bonds) apply to same; provided that (i) in each case the Purchase Price shall be at leaSt ninety-

eight percent (98%) of the proceeds of the Bonds (exclusive of any net original issue discount 

used in the marketing of the Bonds, not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof), plus 

accrued interest, ifany, on the Bonds from their Dated Date to the date of their issuance, (ii) the 

aggr~gateamount of principal of and interest on and Maturity Amouht of the Bonds (based,for 

Variable Rate Bonds, on the reasonable estimate of the Chief Financial Officer as hereinabove 

provided) in any year shall not exceed the aggregate amount levied therefor pursuant hereto 

plus capitalized interest, if any, (iii) the aggregate par amount of Bonds to be sold pursuant to 

the Master Bond Ordinance shall be limited as follows: (a) for the Public Safety Funds Project, 

the Hearth Fund Project, and the Corporate Fund Project, collectively, the aggregate par amount 

shall not exceed the sum of $242,943,365 for 2009 Project Bonds and $223.908,924 for 2010 

Project Bonds; (b) for the Capital Equipment Project related to the Duran Consent Decree, the 

aggregate par amount shall not exceed the sum of $8.466,741 for 2009 Project Bonds; (c) for 

the balance of the Capital Equipment Project. the aggregate par amount shall not exceed the 

sum of $106,034.599 for 2009 Project Bonds and $107,989,289 for 2010 Project Bonds;'and (d) 

for the Pension Project. the aggregate par amount shall not exceed the sum of $80,000;000 for 

2010 Project Bonds; and fiiij (iv) as an additional limitation on the sale of the Refunding Bonds, 

each such certificate oneport (as hereinabove described) must set forth that the Refunding will 

provide a present value debt service savings to the County resulting from the issuance of 

Refunding Bonds to refund each maturity, or part of a maturity, of the Refunded Bonds which 

are chosen to be refunded, which report shall demonstrate that the County will realize a 

'minimum net present value savings of three percent (3.00%) of the debt service on the 

, Refunded Bonds; being refunded.   The Bonds may be sold from time to time as the Chief
Financial Officer shall determine that the proceeds of such sales are needed. Nothing
contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale of the Bonds or any maturity or maturities thereof
at a price or prices in excess of the prinCipal amount thereof. Incidental to each sale of the
several Series of Bonds, the Chief Financial Officer shall provide the Corporate Authorities a
written notification' of the sale of such Bonds, which notification shall describe such Series of
Bonds in detail.
B.
BOND ORDERS. Subsequent, to each such sale of the Bonds, the Chief
Financial Officer shall file in the office of the County Clerk a Bond Order directed to the'
Corporate Authorities identifying (i) the terms of the sale, (ii) the amount of the Bonds being sold
as Capital Appreciation Bonds, Convertible CABs or Current Interest Bonds, (iii) the amount of '
, ,Bonds being sold as Variable Rate Bonds and attaching the related Indenture or Indentures, (iv)
the Dated Date of the Bonds sold, (v) the aggregate principal amount of Bonds sold, (vi) the'
principal amount of Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory redemption in each year, (vii) the

 optional redemption provisions applicable to the. Bonds sold, .(viii) the specific maturities and
principal amounts of Refunded Bonds to be refunded with the proceeds of the Bonds sold, (ix)
the date on and price at which the Refunded Bonds shall be redeemed (if such redemption shall
occur prior to the maturity date thereof or pursuant to mandatory redemption), (x) the financing
team, including each. Bond Counsel, Financial Advisor, Trustee and Underwriter and, for each
Series of Refunding Bonds, the Escrow Agent or Escrow Agents designated in connection with
the Refunding of the relevant Refunded Bonds, (xi) with respect to any Capital Appreciation
. Bonds being sold, the Original Principal Amounts of and Yields to Maturity on such Capital
Appreciation Bonds and a table of Compound Accreted Values per $5,000 Compound Accreted
Value at Maturity for such Capital Appreciation Bonds, setting forth the Compound Accreted
Value of each such Capital Appreciation Bond on each semiannual compounding date, (xii) the
interest rate or rates on any Current Interest Bonds sold, or, in the case of any series of Variable
. Rate Bonds the estimated rate used to determine the Pledged Taxes for such Variable Rate
Bonds and a description (which shall be in the relevant Indenture therefor) of the methods of
determining the interest rate applicable to such Variable Rate Bonds from time to time and the
identity of any remarketing agent retained in connection. with the issuance of Variable Rate
Bonds, (xiii) the identity of any Insurer, (xiv) the portion, ifany; of the Bonds which are not Tax
Exempt, (xv) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility, and (xvi) the information regarding
the title and series designation of the Bonds, together with any other matter authorized by this
Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale of the Bonds, and
thereafter the Bonds so sold shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner
provided herein and delivered to the respective Underwriters in accordance with the terms of
.
sale.
C.
SELECTION OF FINANCING TEAMS. The President and Chief Financial Officer
are each hereby authorized and directed to· select a financing team, specifically including
Underwriters,Bond Counsel, Trustee, Financial Advisors and other firms and, for any Series of
Refunding Bonds, one or more Escrow Agents and such other firms as necessary to effect the
Refunding, and to execute and deliver such contracts (including, specifically, a contract for the
purchase of Bonds) or agreements (including, specifically, for any Series of Refunding Bonds
one,or more Escrow Agreements) with the entities selected in connection with the sale of each'
Series of the Bonds. Each such contract or agreement shall be in substantially the form
previously used for general obligation financings of the County, with appropriate revisions to
reflect the terms and provisions of the Bonds of each Series and this Ordinance and such other
revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or
desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The Chief Financial Officer shall obtain the
approval of the Corporate Authqritie~ prior to the execution and delivery of any such contract or
agreement with such Underwriters, Bond Counselor Financial Advisors.
The Board hereby expressly approves the financing teams for the 2010 Bonds as
follows:

I.

FOR THE PROJECT BONDS:
Lead Managers:

Loop Capital Markets, LLC (MlWBE)

Co~Lead

Bank of America

Managers:

Co-Managers:

Barclays Capital
Ramirez & Co. (MBE)

 Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. (MIWBE) 

Stifel Nicolaus 

Lead Financial Advisor:
. Co-Financial Advisor:

Gardner, Underwood & Bacon, LLC (MBE) 

A.C. Advisory (M/WBE) . 


Bond Counsel:

Chapman and Cutler LLP 


Co-Bond Counsel:

Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt, P.C. (MBE) 


Underwriters Counsel:

Perkins Coie LLP 


Co-Underwriters Counsel: Tyson Strong Hill Connor, LLP (MBE) 

. II.

FOR THE REFUNDING BONDS AND THE PENSION FUND BONDS 

Lead Managers:

Morgan Stanley 


Co-Lead Managers:

Rice Financial Products Company (MBE) 


Co-Managers:

Cabrera Capital Markets, LLC (MBE) 

Citigroup 

J. P.Morgan 

William Blair & Company 


Lead Financial Advisor: 


Gardner, Underwood & Bacon, LLC (MBE) 


Co-Financial Advisor: 


Peralta Garcia Solutions (M/wBE) 


Bond Counsel: 


Chapman and Cutler LLP 


Co-Bond Counsel: 


Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt, P.C. (MBE) 


Underwriters Counsel: 


Perkins Coie LLP 


Co-Underwriters Counsel: 
 Tyson Strong Hill Connor, LLP (MBE) 

provided, however, thatin the event the Pension Fund Bonds are not sold at a negotiated sale,
Dexia is hereby approved as the purchaser of said Pension Fund Bonds.

D.
ANNUAL REPORTS. On or before each November 30, commencing the
November 30 following the first sale of any Bonds pursuant to this Ordinance, the Chief
. Financial Officer shall provide a written statement to the Corporate Authorities setting forth  in
summary form the details of each relevant Bond Order filed with the County Clerk from and after
the preceding December 1.

 .E.
EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS AUTHORIZED. Any Designated Officer and
such other officers and officials of the County as may be necessary are hereby authorized to
execute such other documents, as may be necessary to implement the Projects and the
Refunding and to effect the issuance and delivery and maintenance of the status of the Bonds,
including but not limited to:
(i)
those certain contracts of purchase (each, a "Purchase Contracf) by and
between the County and the Underwriters, which Purchase Contracts shan be in form
acceptable to the Chief Financial! Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;
(ii)
as necessary in connection with any Refunding, those certain Escrow
Agreements by and between the County and the Escrow Agent or Escrow Agents, such
agreements to be. provided by Bond Counsel, which Escrow Agreements shall be in form
acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;

(iii)
as necessary in connection with the issuance of any Series of Variable
Rate Bonds, one or more Indentures, Which Indentures shall be in form acceptable tothe
Chief Financial. Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;
(iv)
those certain Continuing Disclosure Undertakings, each as approved by
theChiet Financial Officer and each in form customarily used by the County, to effect
compliance with Rule 1Sc2-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(v)
such certification, .tax returns and documentation as may be required by
Bond Counsel, including, specifically, a tax agreement, to render their opinions as to the
Tax Exempt :status of the interest on any Tax Exempt Bonds or the qualification of a
portion of the Bonds as Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code;
(vi)
such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be advised by
Bond Counsel as appropriate, to establish and maintain the Tax Exempt status of the
. interest on any Tax Exempt Bonds and the qualification of a portion of the Bonds as
Qualified Build America Bonds pursuant to the Code; and
(vii)
such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be advised by
.Bond Counsel as appropriate, to apply for and obtain any tax credits that may be
"   available. to the County as a result of. any of the Bonds qualifying as Qualified Build
America Bonds pursuant to the Code;

',:,

.

'"

•

.. , .

c

. andex~cution thereof by such Designated Officers, officers and officials is hereby deemed
conclusive evidence of approval thereof with such changes, additions, insertions, omissions or
deletions as such officers may determine, with no further official action of or direction by the
Corporate Authorities .
F.
UNDERTAKINGS.. When any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed
and delivered.on behalf of the County, it will be binding on the County and the officers, agents,
and employees of the County,and the same are hereby authorized and directed to do all such
acts and things· and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and
comply with the provisions of such Continuing. Disclosure Undertaking as executed and
delivered. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies for failure to comply

 with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial owner of any
Bond to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order, to cause to the County to
comply with its obligations thereunder.
G.
OFFERING MATERIALS. The preparation, use and distribution of a preliminary
official statement and an official statement relating to each sale and issuance of the Bonds are
hereby ratified and approved. The President and Chief Financial Officer are each hereby
authorized to execute and deliver an official statement relating to each sale and issuance of the
Bonds on behalf of the County. The preliminary official statements and official statements
herein authorized shall be in substantially the forms previously used for general obligation
financings of the County with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the
Bonds and. to describe accurately the current condition of .the County and the parties to the
financing.
H.
CREDIT FACILITIES; POLICIES. In connection with any sale of a Series of
Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to obtain a Credit
Facility with one or more financial institutions. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is
hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement agreement and to execute and issue a
promiSSOry note in connection with the provisions of each .Credit Facility. Any Credit Facility and
any reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities and
reimbursement agreements previously entered into by the County in connection with the sale of
general obligation bonds or notes, but with such revisions in text as the President or the Chief
Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof· by the
President or the Chief Financial Officer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of
all such revisions. The annual fee paid to any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility
shall not exceed one and one-:quarter percent (1.25%) of the average principal amountof such
Bonds outstanding during such annual period. The. final form of reimbursement agreement
entered into by the County with respect to a Series of Bonds shall be attached to the relevant
Bond Order filed ·with the County Clerk pursuant to.this Section. Each such promiSSOry note
shall mature not later than the final maturity date of the Bonds and shall be a general obligation
of the County for the payment of which, both principal and interest, the County pledges its full
.faith,  credit and resources.· Each such promissory note shall bear interest at a rate not
exceeding 18 percent per annum. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement, under the seal of the
County affixed and attached by the County Clerk.
In connection with any sale of a Series of the Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby further authorized to obtain a Policy from an Insurer if the Chief Financial
Officer determines such Policy to be desirable in connection with such sale of such Series of
Bonds or any portion thereof. The President or Chief Financial Officer is hereby expressly
authorized, .on behalf of the County, to make such customary covenants and agreements with
such Insurer as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, as may be required
.. .
by such bond insurer, including as follows:
(i) .
Consent to Amendments. That any provision o~ this Ordinance expressly
recognizing or granting rights in or to any such Insurer or to BondhOlders generally may
not .be amended in any manner which affects the rights of the Insurer or Bondholders
generally without the prior written consent of the Insurer.
(ii)
Notices. That the County may be required to furnish to the Bond Insurer
information or notices.

 ,
(iii)
List of Permitted Investments. That the investment of moneys in the
various accounts of the Fund may be limited to such list of lawful investments as may be
required by the Insurer; provided, however, such list shall include direct obligations of
the United States of America and shares in the Public Treasurers' Investment Pool.
(iv). Non-Defeasance and Subrogation. That in the event that the principal
and/or interest due on the Bonds shall be paid by the Insurer pursuant to a Policy, the
Bonds shall remain outstanding for all purposes, not be defeased or otherwise satisfied
and not be considered paid by the County, and the pledge of Net Revenue and all
covenants, agreements and other obligations of the County to the Bondholders shall
continue to exist and ,shall run to the benefit of the Insurer, and the Insurer shall be
subrogated to the rights of such Bondholders.
(v)
Payment Procedure Pursuant to Policy. That so long as the Policy shall
be in full force and effect, the County and any Paying Agent and Bond Registrar agree to
comply with such reasonable timing and notice procedures to properly effectuate Bond
payment.
,(vi)
Control of Proceedings; Vote in Plan. That so long as the Policy shall be
in full force and effect and not in default, the Insurer may exercise the rights of the
registered owners of the Bonds in, connection with the enforcement of all rights and
remedies, and may vote the interests of the owners of such bonds in connection with
bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency plan or proceeding .
.' SECTION 3"

PRIOR INCONSISTENT PROCEEDINGS .

.AII ordinances, resolutions,' motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
provisions of this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
"
, '.

. SECTION 4.

PASSAGE AND APPROVAL.

PRESENTED, PASSED, APPROVED AND RECORDED by The County of Cook,
Illinois, a home rule unit of government, this
th day of ~pril, 2010.

 