 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Finance Subcommittee on Labor

Monday, September 8, 2014 9:40 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present: Vice Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)
Absent: Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

14?0385
Sponsored by: PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE

Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the code of ordinances to clarify the required
participants for apprenticeship programs in order to be deemed a responsible bidder.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Prese4rve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners that Title I 
Administration, Chapter 8 District Finances, Section 2 Contracts and Purchases, Subsection 8-5 ofthe Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Chapter 8 District Finances

1-8?1 :Receipts of Money

1-8?2Contracts and Purchases

Rates for Public Works Employee.
I-8-4Property Tax Relief

I-8?5Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises



S.Responsible bidder for bids for construction, maintenance, and repair of public works shall mean a bidder who
meets all ofthejob speci?cations, the following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such compliance:

1.All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the State of Illinois.
2.Evidence of compliance with:

a.Federal Employer Tax Identi?cation Number or Social Security Number (for
individuals);

b.Provision of Section of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the United States Code and
Federal Executive Order No. 1 1246 as amended by Executive Order No. 1375 (known as
the Equal Opportunity Employer Provisions).

3. Certi?cates of insurance indicating the following coverage; general liability, workers compensation, completed
operation, automobile, hazardous occupation, product liability and professional liability insurance.

4. Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, including wages, medical and
hospitalization insurance, and retirement for those trades covered in the Act.

5. Active apprenticeship and training programs approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded
contract for all bidders. General Contractors, and/o_r subcontractors.

6. Certi?ed payrolls as speci?ed in 820 ILCS 130/5 for all contractors and subcontractors.

For purposes ofthis Section the terms "public works" and "construction" shall have the meanings set forth
in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/2. Moreover, it is expressly understood that the term "public
works? shall not include snow removal, landscaping, tree trimming, and tree removal unless such activities are done
in conjunction with, or in preparation for, new construction or the repair, maintenance, assembly or disassembly of
equipment owned or leased by the District.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 7/22/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor.

A motion was made by Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that this Ordinance
Amendment be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Vice Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)
Absent: Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (3)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this committee be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 2 0f 3

Ayes: Vice Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)

Absent: Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and ritchey (3)

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File 14-0385 Recommended for Approval

Respectfully submitted,

Vice Chairman Uarcia

 

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 3 of3

