MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
December 15, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, December 15, 2011 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Thursday, December 15, 2011 at approximately 12:30 P.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Z. Scott, Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael Holewinski
and Lee Gould. At 12:40 P.M. on Thursday, December 15, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the
meeting to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open
Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat gambling Act, Member Gould moved that the
Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s
agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote. The Board recessed and went into open session at 3:00 P.M. Present were the
following: Chairman Jaffe, Member Gould, Member Vander Weele and Member Holewinski.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of September 20, 2011. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski reviewed the year of 2011. The following is a brief synopsis of his
review:
The IGB issued Rules and made certain amendments including but not limited to: new
definitions, new licensing procedures and procedures for transportation and distribution of video
gaming terminals.
Continued to work with our test lab GLI regarding setting of standards, testing certifying VGT’s
and providing comments on our website.
Central Communication System contract awarded on November 22, 2011.

 Received 31 applications for manufacturers, distributors and suppliers. 15 have been approved
as of 12/1/11.
99 terminal operators applications have been received.
Investigations:
PSICs – 409 investigations
SIP – 65 investigations
IP – 778 investigations
Business Entity – 72 investigations
Institutional – 13 investigations
Trusts – 34 investigations
Total – 1,501 investigations
PUBLICE COMMENTARY –
Roy Corrie, Royboy Corporation –
The following is a statement that the representative of Royboy Corporation read:
Welcome new Board Members. Thank you Chairman Jaffe and new Board Members for letting
me speak. My name is Roy Corrie, owner of New Way Gaming Terminal and Central
Communication System with the latest Technology for legal Video Gaming and Casinos in
Illinois. I’m here today to let the new members of this auspicious board to become aware of my
All-In-One Gaming Terminal and advantages for all involved. After laborious research, my
legal team and I have determined there is still time to amend the rules and regulations of the
Video Poker Act allowing an advantage to the People of Illinois and not the Illinois Coin
Machine Operators Association. If allowed to have my All-In-One Gaming terminal given the
opportunity for me and my company to be reviewed, such review would show the state of Illinois
a savings of $3.2B and increasing its gross income to well over $15B over the next 10 years. I
am positive the previous Illinois Gaming Board did not read my proposal in the past. If they had,
I am sure the Illinois Gaming Board and its members would not ignore the seven distinct
advantages with the All-In-One terminal. I believe any competent individual and this Board,
after reviewing the information and look at the advantages as proved by empirical data would be
impressive. I therefore request the members of this Honorable Board to again review the data
within the proposal and see what the State of Illinois would receive over the next 10 years.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Receive 3 times the gross income
Complete elimination of organized crime and all taxes would be received by the State.
The municipalities would receive 6 ½ times at 10% of the gross income.
There would be no cost for a central communication system.
The state savings and income would exceed $16M
No manipulating the terminals (no money in the terminals)

2

 7.
Ability to oversee and police over 15,000 establishments and over 60,000 terminals
simultaneously and instantly.
As these are the major advantages there are several more which can be discussed with more
specificity along with an examination of the All-In-One gaming terminal prototype at a meeting.
Chairman Jaffe has repeatedly stated on television and in the newspapers this Board is doing the
right thing for the people of Illinois. I implore this Board and its members to take a second look
at my invention and proposal. Upon doing so, I believe this Board would embrace my
technology. Our goal is not to stop the law and start over, but to insure all involved have a level
playing ground for others. I believe given the opportunity to prove its functionality and viability,
this Board would authorize the All-In-One Gaming Terminal and my proposal for the State of
Illinois. Chairman Jaffe speaking for the Board in the past has stated by putting more casinos
and racetracks with Video Poker Terminals would flood the gaming market in Illinois. I believe
this is not true and would like to see the data supporting such statements. Shouldn’t the gaming
market itself decide as to what the market will bear? This Board’s former counsel, Michael
Fries, stated emphatically we would have to “change the law” and completely start over. After
discussions with a few of the members of the Illinois legislature and our legal team the law could
be changed by amendment and interpretation of the present law. Changing the law as stated by
Mr. Fries to myself and associate was and is simply not the truth.
With my 20 plus years experience in video poker gaming specifically in liquor pouring
establishments it is my belief All-In-One Gaming Terminal and proposal would be of a great
advantage to the people of the State of Illinois. I’d like to take this time to thank the Board for
allowing me this opportunity to speak and Mr. Corrie is now open for questions from the Board.
Mr. Corrie expressed concern that the Board does not take him seriously in referencing his
proposal. The Chairman stated that the previous Board read his proposal and are not interested
in his proposal. Mr. Corrie took offense to the statement and had to be asked to leave the
meeting.
Anita R. Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction
Problems The following is a statement that Anita R. Bedell read to the Board.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak and introduce myself to the new Board.
Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems has been working to prevent alcohol
problems for over 100 years. Our organization has worked to educate churches and the public
about the problems of gambling for almost 20 years.
Many times we are the lone voice speaking out in opposition to gambling expansion legislation
at the capitol. We are thankful to Chairman Jaffe for speaking out to safeguard the public about
the massive gambling expansion bills that were introduced in the General Assembly this year.
SB 744 was amended seven times before it passed in May. We, too, are opposed to the
Provisional video Gambling Licensure that was included in the bill.

3

 Our organization supports the strict regulation of gambling. The Illinois Gaming Board and the
Illinois Video Gaming Board should not be rushed in the licensing process. We ask that you take
the necessary time to do thorough background checks to prevent the infiltration of organized
crime.
We have heard from many families whose loved ones have been addicted to gambling. We ask
that you require all patrons to be carded before they enter the casino or video gambling facility to
prevent those on the self-exclusion list from gambling. We are concerned that these problems
with escalate with the implementation of video gambling in communities statewide.
A few weeks ago, Shorewood adopted an ordinance to “opt out” of video gambling. While 81
communities or counties have “opted out” of video gambling, many communities are taking no
action until this Board has all of the rules in place. Before video gambling is implemented in a
community, we ask that a public hearing be held to inform residents, have a discussion, and give
local officials the opportunity to “opt out”.
LICENSEE ITEMSItems for Consideration –
●

Spielo International Canada ULC – New Manufacturer’s License
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski
moved that the Board approve Spielo International Canada ULC for a
Manufacturer’s License effective December 15, 2011 for a period of one (1) year,
expiring in December, 2012. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Coastal Amusement Distributers, Inc. – New Manufacturer’s License
The Administrator stated “You have before you, staff’s investigation regarding Coastal
Amusement Distributors, Inc. and its owners.
Staff’s investigation revealed that Coastal and its owners, failed to meet the qualifications
required in the Video Gaming Act 230 ILCS section 40/45 and Board Rule 1800.420.
those factors include but are not limited to: in 1991 Iowa denied SMS a license to
manufacture VGTs a company owned by Mr. Mirando, in 1991 New Brunswick
Canadian authorities revoked SMS license. The findings of the New Jersey commission
of investigations report in 1990 Coastal through Mr. Mirando has a background in
business associations that pose a threat to the security and integrity to video gaming in
Illinois. Coastal and its owners present questionable business practices incidental to the
conduct of video gaming in Illinois. Therefore staff would recommend that Coastal’s
application for video manufacturer license be denied

4

 Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele
moved that the Board deny Coastal Amusement Distributers, Inc. for a
Manufacturer’s License. Member Jaffe seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 4:12 P.M. Chairman Jaffe motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the motion. All
Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 