MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
APRIL 22, 1997
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on April 22, 1997 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’
B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:15 a.m. Member Browder moved
that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1),
(4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 1:20 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the March 18, 1997 regular meeting. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman’s Report
The Chairman reported that several items were added as presentations for initial
consideration. The Chairman stated that HP, Inc. will be requesting a change in its
current cash reserve policy and Casino Queen will discuss proposed changes in its
existing financial line of credit.

1

 Chairman Johnson reported that HP, Inc. has requested certain changes to its
outstanding bank debt and in its working cash situation. The Board previously
authorized the Administrator to approve these types of transactions, however, the
Administrator requested the Board take formal action. The Chairman recommended
that these items be given final consideration.
Chairman Johnson further noted that: the Board will consider an issue concerning
Section 5.1 of the Riverboat Gambling Act regarding the disclosure of certain
information; the licensure of Edward Duffy will be deferred due to a technical question;
the Board will consider two contracts, in the Administrator’s view, that require specific
Board action.
Chairman Johnson changed the sequence of items on the Agenda in order to allow
testimony from the Coast Guard in the matter of Empress’ preventive and hull
maintenance issues.
Administrator's Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance;
and, Internal Control System changes.
Administrator Belletire reported that: The Silver Eagle requested permission to
temporarily stop operations April 15 and 16 if rising flood waters continued (the shutdown never occurred); An article ran in the Illinois Quarterly highlighting Board Member
Gayl Pyatt who will be presented with an award for Distinguished Service at an
upcoming U of I Alumni Association dinner; A comprehensive set of Rules became final
April 1, 1997 and were published in the Illinois Register April 11, 1997; Lt. Tom Biebel
has been reassigned to the Cook County Metropolitan Enforcement Group effective
April 16 due to the ISP staff rotation policy; M/Sgt. Glenn Leonard, formerly a Squad
Leader in the Chicago-District General Investigations Unit of the ISP, has been selected
by Commander Haughey to fill the position of Acting Lieutenant (effective 4/16).
The Administrator reported that Empress - Joliet established an “Office of Community
Involvement” in early April. The purpose of the office is to formalize company
involvement in community economic development projects. Administrator Belletire also
noted that an Empress - Joliet boat captain detected two run-away barges along the
Des Plaines River. Due to the quick action of Empress employees, tow boats were able
to secure the run-away barges and avoid a potential collision.
Administrator Belletire noted that Representative Lou Lang introduced a comprehensive
measure to expand riverboat gaming in Illinois. Pursuant to a request from the General
Assembly, IGB staff have prepared a fiscal note on this proposed amendment. The
IGB fiscal note projects significantly lower revenues than Representative Lang has
projected.

2

 Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS CASINO - JOLIET (“Empress”) - Michael Hansen, representing Empress,
requested a waiver for preventive maintenance to conduct work on the Empress I’s
main engines, both generator sets and the vessel’s bow thruster starting May 19 and
continuing for fourteen days. In addition, Empress plans to perform an underwater hull
survey during this period.
Captain Michael Brown, Officer in Charge of Marine Inspection for the Chicago area
Coast Guard, responded to Chairman Johnson’s questions about the twelve month (hull
inspection) extension granted to the Casino Rock Island. Captain Brown also
discussed how internal (ultra-sonic) and external hull inspections are conducted.
Michael Hansen responded to Chairman Johnson’s questions about the possible need
for a dry dock inspection of Empress, should the underwater inspection prove
insufficient. Mr. Hansen indicated that the Empress I would need to travel to New
Orleans (the closest dry dock inspection site) to complete the Coast Guard’s
requirement. The process would likely entail a 60 day time period.
Member Cudmore asked if precedent has been set for conducting hull inspections on
in-land water systems. Captain Brown stated that a procedure is used for the drilling
rigs off the Gulf of Mexico. This type of inspection requires an initial dry docking to grid
the hull and video tape for reference purposes. The riverboats are different in that a
reference video has never been made.
Member Vickrey asked Captain Brown if he was familiar with any operation building a
cofferdam around the vessel. Captain Brown indicated that the riverboat operation in
Michigan City, Indiana is building a set of cofferdams in order to assemble its vessel on
site.
Marshall Whitmer, General Manager of Specialty Diving, a contractor from Louisiana
hired by Empress - Joliet to conduct the underwater hull testing, answered questions
about the cleaning process of the hull and preparation for the inspection.
Member Browder moved that, pursuant to the Board resolution adopted at the July
23, 1996 Board meeting, the Board approve Empress Casino Joliet’s request for a
waiver of Board Rule 3000.510 to allow Empress to conduct gaming while
remaining dockside while preventive maintenance is being performed on the
main engines, both generator sets and the bow thruster. In granting this waiver,
the Board has considered the following:
1.

Empress’ work plan and the time frame requested;

2.

Evidence that the riverboat must remain dockside for the planned
maintenance to be completed;

3.

Evidence of Empress’ inability to postpone the repairs; and

3

 4.

Empress’ overall cruising record.

Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
ROCK ISLAND BOATWORKS - Ronald Wicks, representing the Casino Rock Island
(“CRI”), stated that ultra-sound testing has been completed successfully on its riverboat.
CRI was required to do the testing to get a 1-year hull inspection extension from the
Coast Guard.
Mr. Wicks requested renewal of their owner’s license. Mr. Wicks stated that the last
year for the CRI has been a difficult one given the attraction of dockside gaming on the
Iowa side of the Quad-cities. This continues to be a major obstacle in CRI’s efforts to
grow its customer base. He noted that, despite this challenge, CRI continues to be
committed to initiate tourism and economic development.
Mr. Wicks reported that CRI has initiated projects to improve its facility, including the
replacement of one-third of its slot machines and various esthetic improvements.
John Phillips, City Manager of Rock Island, discussed the partnership between the CRI
and the City of Rock Island and stated on behalf of the Mayor, the city council and the
citizens of the City of Rock Island that they fully support the relicensure of the CRI.
Bill Renk, Director of Marketing for CRI, provided highlights on how the CRI has
competed and maintained its market share over the past year. Mr. Renk stated that
CRI has been a competitive force in the Quad-cities market. CRI held its overall market
share and generated a nominal increase in slot drop during 1996. Mr. Renk stated that
this was accomplished by improving CRI’s slot mix and offering a variety of promotions
every week throughout the year. During 1996, CRI followed steps to insure the
retention of players such as: doubling its direct mail budget to player’s club members;
producing a bi-monthly newsletter for players; and conducting bi-monthly invitation only
parties.
John Phillips responded to Member Vickrey’s question about the entertainment area in
Rock Island called “The District”. Mr. Phillips stated that the city has seen continued
investment and interest in The District businesses. Member Vickrey encouraged the
city to take an active role to assure visitors are directed to The District before leaving
the city after a gaming excursion.
CASINO QUEEN, INC. - John Janicik, representing Casino Queen, requested initial
consideration to refinance its existing debt and provide for a larger revolving line of
credit. The expected amount would be up to $10 million with a maturity date of no more
than three years.

4

 HP, Inc. - Joseph McQuaid and Walter Hanley, representing HP, Inc., requested
approval for a decrease in its current cash reserve requirement. Mr. McQuaid asked for
a waiver of the two meeting rule. The Board declined the request and the item was set
for consideration at the May 20 Board meeting.
ROCK ISLAND BOATWORKS - Jack Desatnick, representing Casino Rock Island
(“CRI”), requested approval of Deanne Kaye Dahl as Controller.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve Deanna Dahl as an Occupational
License Level One of Rock Island Boatworks. Member Vickrey seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS RIVER CASINO - JOLIET - Mike Hansen, representing Empress, requested
approval of Brian Johnson as Director of Finance.
Member Pyatt move that the Board approve Brian L. Johnson as an Occupational
License Level One of Empress Casino-Joliet. Member Browder seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HP, INC. - Joseph McQuaid requested Board approval of two separate HP, Inc.
financial transactions. The principal company shareholders propose to lend the
company an additional $2 million for working cash purposes. Additionally, the three
principal shareholders will take over the HP, Inc. debt that is owed to the Bank of
America. The debt will be directly owed by HP, Inc. to these shareholders.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve HP Inc.’s request to retire $14.3
million of bank debt to three of its principal shareholders in exchange for a
corresponding promissory note from HP Inc. I further move that the Board
approve a $2 million loan pursuant to the terms of the existing Credit Agreement
and certain additional terms. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Supplier Licensees Items
GEORGE C. MATTESON COMPANY, INC. (“GEMACO”) - C.L. Fitzhugh, representing
GEMACO, requested approval of their supplier’s license.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve George C. Matteson Company,
Inc.’s application for renewal of its Supplier’s license for a period of four years
expiring April, 2001. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S ILLINOIS CORPORATION (“HIC”) - Patrick Dennehy, representing HIC,
introduced Bill Buffalo, Associate Legal Counsel for Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. Mr.
Buffalo stated that documents have been amended to eliminate the revenue based
management fee paid to HIC. These amendments also incorporate the other terms of
the management agreement into the partnership document and adjust the allocation of
partnership income and distribution between the two partners that make up HIC. He
noted that with these changes, HIC no longer requires an Illinois supplier’s license. He
requested the withdrawal of HIC’s supplier license and a refund of its renewal fee.
Member Cudmore moved that, pursuant to Board Rule 3000.220(e), the Board
approve Harrah’s request to withdraw its application for renewal of its Supplier’s
License. I further move that the Board direct the Administrator to refund Harrah’s
supplier’s renewal fee. This approval is subject to the Administrator’s approval
of the final agreement between the partners of Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership. Further, the Board requires that it be notified of all future
amendments to the Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership and that these
amendments be submitted to the Board prior to execution. Member Vickrey
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
NEVADA COIN MART - Administrator Belletire stated that Nevada Coin Mart requested
to have its application withdrawn.
Member Browder moved that, pursuant to Board Rule 3000.220(e), the Board
approve Nevada Coin Mart’s request to withdraw its application for renewal of its
Supplier’s License. I further move that the Board direct the Administrator to
refund Nevada Coin Mart’s supplier’s renewal fee. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve 129 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 222 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 4 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member
Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports

6

 Administrator Belletire reported on an on-going investigation pertaining to Casino
Queen, Inc. and certain of its owners, specifically, Charles Bidwill, Timothy Rand and
the Kenny family interests. These investors have entered into separate agreements
with two individuals, Lawrence Lucas and Gregory Baise. The agreements provide for
compensation to be paid over a period of years to Messrs. Lucas and Baise in
conjunction with assistance provided by these individuals during late 1991, early 1992
and in the case of Mr. Lucas through a period ending late 1993. The agreements
themselves were entered into in late 1994 and early 1995.
The Administrator reported that staff has interviewed the various principals in this
matter and conclude that the parties have, to date, been unable to establish to staff’s
satisfaction that these contracts meet the test of Board Rule 3000.170.
The Administrator stated that staff has written to each of the owner’s involved and
requested that further payments due under the agreements be suspended until the
Board completes its review. To date, the owner’s have complied fully with this
requirement. He further noted that each of the principals in this matter have, to date,
cooperated in this review.
Administrator Belletire requested that Board take action specifically to require the
parties involved to participate in a formal process by which evidence concerning the fair
market value of these agreements is presented and weighed.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board direct the Administrator pursuant to Rule
3000.155, with all the powers incident thereto, to continue staff’s investigation
into the Casino Queen, and individuals Charles Bidwill, Timothy Rand, and the
Kenny family investors participating in certain payments to Lawrence Lucas and
Gregory Baise, and present to the Administrator evidence as to the fair market
value of the contracts these parties entered into. In presenting this evidence to
the Administrator the parties may, at their own costs, retain experts to testify on
market value of such transactions.
I further move that the Board reaffirm the Administrator’s directive to the
principals of Casino Queen and order Charles Bidwill, Timothy Rand and
members of the Kenny family to suspend making any further payments under the
Baise and Lucas contracts until the completion of the Board’s review and
determination of the fair market value of these contracts.
I move that the Board direct staff to retain outside experts to assist in evaluating
the evidence presented by the parties previously mentioned and to advise the
staff on the factors to be considered in determining the fair market value of
transactions such as these.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.

7

 Member Pyatt moved that, pursuant to Board Rule 3000.245(f), the Board, having
reviewed Staff’s report, approve the request of Armel Gines to reapply for an
Occupational License Level 3 within one year from the date of his denial. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed Staff’s reports, deny the
hearing requests submitted by Gianni Giamberduca, Clarence Hatchett and
Sharman Smith due to their failure to comply with Board Rule 3000.405. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
WMS GAMING INC. - Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary
action against WMS Gaming, Incorporated be issued and that WMS be fined in
the amount of $7,500. The complaint involves WMS’ failure to pay its 1996 Sales
and Use taxes in a timely manner. Member Browder seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Tanzania
Winfrey be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves her
unauthorized removal of United States currency belonging to Harrah’s Casino.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE - The Administrator stated there were no noteworthy changes
in pending legislation since the last Board meeting.
SECTION 5.1 - Administrator Belletire gave a background on Section 5.1 (Disclosure of
Public Records) of the Riverboat Gambling Act.
Member Vickrey moved:
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act recognizes that in order to enhance the
objectives of the Act, the Board must maintain the public confidence and trust in
the credibility and integrity of gaming; and
WHEREAS, Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act (the “Act”) requires
information regarding owner applicants and licensees to be confidential unless
the Board determines it otherwise necessary to disclose information received or
used in the course of its review or investigation of an applicant for a license; and
WHEREAS, Section 5.1 of the Act was adopted by the General Assembly in
September of 1991 to give the people of Illinois the opportunity to have full
knowledge of who is applying for owner’s licenses; and
8

 WHEREAS, the Board has determined that to maintain the public confidence and
trust in the integrity of gaming, the Board must give the people of Illinois the
opportunity to access the information specified under Section 5.1 of the Act
about individuals with ownership interests in applicants or licensees for owner’s
licenses.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board will apply Section 5.1 of the
Act to make available the specified information regarding the individual holders
of ownership interests in owners license applicants or licensees.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Administrator further stated that staff will compile the shareholder information and
have each owner licensee review for accuracy.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved
that the Board stand adjourned. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:48 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

9

 