REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
May 18, 2004
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Gorman, Hansen and Quigley (4)

Absent:

Chairman Collins, Commissioners Maldonado and Murphy (3)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, May 18, 2004 at the hour of 9:00 AM in the
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

265416

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated March 30, 2004:
Re:

HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME Program)

respectfully request approval of two (2) HOME Investment Partnerships Program Loans
in an amount not to exceed $300,000.00. The loans will be made to Aspire of Illinois, a
nonprofit special needs’ housing provider. Aspire of Illinois will acquire two properties
which would serve as Community Living Projects (CLPs) also referred to as group
homes. The properties to be acquired will be located in the Western Planning region
of Cook County and are projected to house a total of 14 disabled individuals, all of whom
are very low income. The total development cost for the two properties is estimated at
$670,000.00 which includes acquisition and related soft costs. In addition to the HOME
funds, other funding includes first mortgage financing from MidAmerica Bank
and downpayment assistance from the Federal Home Loan Banks of Chicago.
The HOME Program loans will be structured over 40 years and will be fully amortized
at 1% interest. The County Home Program will receive monthly principal and interest
payments from both loans of approximately $758.57 with annual payments projected at
$9,102.84 which will be used for other HOME eligible activities.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Chief Administrative Officer
of the County of Cook, or his designee, be authorized to execute on behalf of
the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the project approved
herein, including but not limited to the HOME Loan agreement and any modifications

 thereto. These loans will be closed with assistance of the State’s Attorney’s Office,
which assistance will include that office drafting the County’s loan documents. The
approval of this loan by this Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary
commitments to allow this project to move forward.
Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Funds: $300,000.00. (772-292 Account).
*Referred to the Committee on Business and Economic Development on 5/4/04
265417

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated March 30, 2004:
Re:

HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME Program)

respectfully request approval of a HOME Investment Partnerships Program grant to be
used for the rehabilitation of approximately 18 single-family homes for low-and very-low
income households in the following municipalities: Barrington, Bartlett, Buffalo
Grove, Elk
Grove
Village, Elmwood
Park, Glenview, Hanover Park, Hoffman
Estates, Morton
Grove, Niles, Park
Ridge, Prospect Heights, Rolling
Meadows and Wilmette. The project complies with the HOME Program regulations and
furthers the goals of the Five-Year Consolidated Community Development Plan
(approved by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development on October 17,
2000).
The HOME Program grant of $750,000.00 will be made between Northwest Housing
Partnership (NWHP) and the County of Cook. NWHP has previously been a successful
participant with HOME Program and CDBG funds. Approval of this loan will enable
NWHP
to
continue
their
owner-occupied
single-family
Rehabilitation
Program. Permanent liens are placed on the properties for the amount of the
rehabilitation by Northwest Housing Partnership. After rehabilitation is completed,
NWHP then assigns the Note, Owner’s Partnership Agreement, and Junior Mortgage
to Cook County. The Cook County HOME Program will recapture funds expended on
the projects when these homes are sold, transferred, or otherwise alienated and title is
transferred.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Chief Administrative Officer
of the County of Cook, or his designee, be authorized to execute on behalf of
the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the project approved
herein, including, but not limited to the Subgrantee Agreement and any modifications
thereto. The necessary documents will be reviewed and approved by the State’s
Attorney’s Office. Approval of this grant by this Honorable Body will permit staff to move
forward with this project.
Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Funds: $750,000.00. (772-298 Account).
*Referred to the Committee on Business and Economic Development on 5/4/04
265419

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated April 8, 2004:
Re:

National Concrete Pipe Company

 Resolution Approving Class 6b Renewal
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the National Concrete Pipe Company’s
application for Class 6b property tax incentive for your consideration.
National Concrete Pipe Company requests approval of the renewal of Class 6b as per
the Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company, which is located in
unincorporated Cook County, can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook
County.
Submitting the National Concrete Pipe Company application for Class 6B renewal and
a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides for the renewal of an existing incentive to
an applicant for the continuation of the 16% assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from National Concrete Pipe Company for a facility located in
unincorporated Leyden Township at 11825 Franklin Avenue, Franklin Park, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Numbers 12-19-100-031-0000; and 12-19-100-0430000; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board stating that the
industrial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy and that
the County Board supports and consents to the renewal of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the
National Concrete Pipe Company employs approximately 40 full time employees who
support local businesses and services in Cook County and the company provides its
products to numerous municipal projects resulting in the maintenance and improvement
of the local infrastructure.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners find that National Concrete Pipe Company’s industrial use of the
property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy and that they support and
consent to the renewal of Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Committee on Business and Economic Development on 5/4/04
265420

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated April 8, 2004:
Re:

Giovanni & Maria Gullo Family Limited Partnership

 Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the company’s application for Class 6b
property tax incentive for your consideration.
The Gullo Family Partnership requests approval of the special exception to the 24
month abandonment rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so
that the company can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County within
the 90 day period from purchase of the property.
Submitting the company application for Class 6b, the Resolution of the Village of Elk
Grove, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Giovanni & Maria Gullo Family Limited Partnership and the Resolution
from Elk Grove Village for an abandoned industrial facility located at 780-790 Lively
Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Property Index Number 08-27-301015-0000; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 19 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances
are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to the company for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 780-790 Lively Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Cook County,
Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Committee on Business and Economic Development on 5/4/04

Commissioner Quigley, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved the approval of
Communication Nos. 265416, 265417, 265419 and 265420. The motion carried.
Commissioner Gorman moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Hansen. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

 Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Gregg Goslin, Vice Chairman

Attest:

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Michelle Harris, Secretary

 