··.

-.

/~-

·.

·~
~

·~~
.
-

...

~
~

.

..

.-

'

-:
'

•, :·

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Wednesday, July 29,2015

9:20AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Ameya Pawar- Alderman 4 71h Ward, City of Chicago
Sam Toia - President and CEO, Illinois Restaurant Association
Melissa Josephs-Director of Equal Opportunity Policy, Women Employed
Michael Reever-Vice President Government Relations, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
Tonya Triche-Vice President General Counsel, Illinois Retail Merchants Association
Rameka Aton-R.O.C. Administrator, Restaurant Opportunities Center
George Blakemore- Concerned Citizen
Art Potash - Potash Markets
Mary Hartsfield, Vice President, Warriors on the Watch, Inc.
Randall K. Blakey-Representative, Local Leaders in Collaboration (written testimony)

COMMITTEE MINUTES

15-4656
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/20/20 15

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

 15-1700
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION TO DISCUSS WORKFORCE, HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
AFFFAIRS IN COOK COUNTY GOVERNMENT
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the
1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is committed to fostering economic, workforce and community development within
Cook County by strategically leveraging the tools and resources with a growing regional capacity to expand the
amount of jobs and housing and support stable, resilient communities for its residents and businesses.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Committee on Housing, Workforce an
Community Development intends to meet to review projects, ideas, resolutions and ordinances to further the
discussion and explore opportunities to: support regional business growth and retention; support job creation
through apprenticeship programs that lead to sustainable long-term employment; work in partnership with
members of our skilled trades; and to discuss ways to partner with federal, state and local governments to
reinvest in our communities by reducing the amount of vacant and abandoned housing.
Legislative History: 2/10/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Resolution be
recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

15-4070
Presented by:

SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development

PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Grantee: Cook County Bureau of Economic Development
Grantor: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Page 2 of2

 Purpose: To support various community development, homeless and social services, affordable housing, and
economic development activities in suburban Cook County.
Grant Amount:
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG): $9,592,913.00
Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG): $819,584.00
HOME Investment Partnerships: $4,171,139.00
Grant Period:
CDBG:
10/1/2015- 9/30/2016
ESG:
10/1/2015- 9/30/2017
HOME: 10/1/2015-9/30/2020
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences: The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on
Cook County, if any.
Summary: Transmitted herewith are the proposed funding sources and uses for the 2015 Program Year for the
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG); Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) (formerly known as the
Emergency Shelter Grant); and HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) p.t;ograms.

These funds are provided to Cook County via an annual formula grant through the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) and are restricted for use within suburban Cook County. The Planning and
Development Subcommittee of the Economic Development Advisory Committee (EDAC) is expected to approve
these recommendations at a public hearing which will be held in July.
The 2015 Program Year funding allocations are as follows :
CDBG:
ESG:
HOME:

$9,592,913
$819,584
$4,171,139

CDBG funding may be utilized to support various community development activities for the benefit of low- and
moderate-income persons.
ESG funding may be utilized to support various shelter and service activities for the benefit of homeless persons
or persons at-risk of homelessness.
HOME funding may be utilized to support affordable housing development activities for the benefit of
low-income persons.
The proposed sources and uses of all program funds will be incorporated into the County's Annual Action Plan,
which will be made available for public comment prior to submittal to HUD by 8/15/2015.
Page 3 of3

 I respectfully request approval of the recommended proposed funding sources and uses for the 2015 CDBG,
ESG, and HOME funds; and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her designee be authorized
to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook any and all documents necessary to further the programs approval
herein, including but not limited to, subrecipient agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and
modifications thereto, loan documents, lien assignments, releases of mortgages and liens, and mortgage
assumptions.
Legislative History: 7/1115 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community

Development Committee
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Grant Award be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

15-4077
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PRE-APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Facilities Management, Painters' District Council #14,
International Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades ("Painters' District Council #14") and the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center ("JTDC") have been working to devise and implement a
Pre-Apprenticeship Program for a limited number of JTDC Residents; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Facilities Management and the Painters' District Council # 14 desire to enter
into a Side Letter of Agreement to allow for the implementation of a Pre-Apprenticeship Program; and
WHEREAS, said Pre-Apprenticeship Program will consist of a 160 hour program per 12 month period,
subject to further authorization and direction by JTDC through a Memorandum of Understanding to be
executed by JTDC, Department of Facilities Management and Painters' District Council #14; and
WHEREAS, said Pre-Apprenticeship Program ("Program") is designed to offer a certain number of
JTDC Residents approved by the JTDC with the opportunity to be instructed in the basics of painting
while detained at the JTDC; and
WHEREAS, JTDC Residents authorized as Program participants will learn craft skills, project management,
safety equipment standards as well as the use of tools of the trade in a supervised environment; and
WHEREAS, Painters' District Council #14 has agreed to provide Program participants who successfully
complete the Program if implemented with three (3) days credit toward an apprenticeship if the JTDC
Resident/Program participant were to obtain an apprenticeship in the future, along with a corresponding
certificate of training; and

Page 4 of4

 WHEREAS, said Program if implemented may be terminated at any time at the direction of the County
or at the request of JTDC.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
authorize the Department of Facilities Management and the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources to execute a
Side Letter of Agreement on behalf of Cook County with Painters' District Council #14, International
Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades for a Pre-Apprenticeship Program.
Legislative History: 7/1115 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Resolution be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this motion to adjourn
be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

Respectfully submitted,

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 5 of5

 