Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee
Wednesday, July 19, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-4362
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/7/2017
17-4226
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
NEW APPLICATION FOR REFERRAL TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Map Amendment to rezone the subject property R-4 Single Family Residence District to I-4
Motor Freight Terminal District to construct and operate a truck terminal and its accessory uses
Township: Lemont
County District: 17

Page 1 of 2

 Zoning and Building Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Property Address: 16548 and 16572 New Avenue, Lemont, Illinois 60643
Property Description: 9.7 acres located on the south side of New Avenue and approximately 775 ft.
west of Veteran Memorial Tollway (I-355)
Owner: J.P. McMahon Properties, LLC. 350 Blackstone Avenue, LaGrange, Illinois 60525
Agent/Attorney:
Matt Noton, Attorney. Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella, P.C. 330 N. Wabash
Avenue, 21st Floor, Chicago, Illinois, 60611
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Construct and operate a Truck Terminal

Secretary
Chairman:
Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 