 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 9:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the speci?ed time for public testimony will forfeit
their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise hen
the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar,
abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in
expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

13-1552

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Section 2?5 83 of the Cook County
Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2-583. Political activity.

No of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee shall compel, coerce or intimidate any County
of?cial or employee to make or refrain from making any political contribution. No of?cial, board or commission
appointee shall directly solicit any political contribution from his or her employees, the spouses, domestic partners
or civil union partners of or immediate family living with his or her employees. Nothing in this subsection shall
be construed to prevent any of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee ?om voluntarily making a

contribution or from receiving a voluntary contribution, except as stated in this sectigi. Board or commission
appointees shall not make political contributions to the President of the Cook County Board and/or Members of

th_e Board of Commissioners of Cook County.

No employee with contract management authority or board or commission appointee shall serve on the
political fundraising committee of any elected of?cial or candidate for County of?ce.

(0) County employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited political activity during any
compensated time (other than vacation, personal, or compensatory time off). County employees or of?cials shall
not intentionally misappropriate any County property 0r resources by engaging in any prohibited political activity
for the bene?t of any campaign for elective of?ce or any political organization.

At no time shall any of?cial or employee intentionally misappropriate the services of any County
employee and at no time shall any board or commission appointee misappropriate the services of any board or
commission employee by requiring that employee to perform any prohibited political activity:

(1) As part of that employee's County duties or in the case of a board or commission, as part of that
employee's board or commission duties;

(2) As a condition of County employment or in the case of a board or commission, as a condition of
board or commission employment; or

(3) During any time off that is compensated by the County or board or commission (such as vacation,
personal, or compensatory time off).

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that employee being awarded any additional compensation
or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment,
or otherwise.

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be awarded any additional compensation
or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, in consideration for the employee's participation in any prohibited political activity.

Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise appropriate for a County employee or board
or commission appointee to engage in on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.

Legislative History: 9/11/13Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 2 of 6 Printed on 9/25/2013

13-1568

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 4, 2013 from

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Pursuant to the authority granted by Illinois State Law and County Ordinance, I hereby appoint Carl to the
position of Chief Administrative Of?cer. Mr. has been serving as Acting Chief Administrative Of?cer for
the Cook County Bureau of Administration since August 5, 2013.

Mr. has over twenty-?ve years of experience serving local government agencies such as the Chicago Transit
Authority, Chicago Housing Authority and the City of Chicago where he was most recently the Deputy
Commissioner of the Department of Buildings. His many years of management in the public sector and leadership
skills will aid the continued success of the departments under the Bureau of Administration.

His professional experience and educational background will certainly be a bene?t to the County of Cook.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee

13-1584

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING THE
CONFIRMATION OF PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTS

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article 111 County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105(k) of
the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Con?rmation of presidential appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the President requiring
the advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
upon the President's submission. The Committee shall hold such hearings as it deems
appropriate and shall, no later than 30 days after referral, report all such appointments to the Board with a
recommendation for action. If the Committee has not made a timely report on any appointment, the appointment
shall, at the next regular meeting of the Board following the expiration of such 30 days, be referred to the Board
with "no recommendation" by the Committee.

At least two business days prior to their confirmation hearing. each candidate for appointment or
reappointment by the President or any other appointiinz authoritv shall submit a notarized. signed af?davit to the
and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:

(1) Is signed by the candidate;
Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 3 of 6 Printed on 9/25/2013

(2) Is sworn under oath. under penalties of periury?.

(3 I Is notarized;

(4) Attests that the candidate ful?lls the requirements set forth under the requisite statute. ordinance,
law or regulation that creates the appointment. including but not limited to;

 

a. Any residency requirements; and/or

b. Any prohibitions on dual employment;

 

(5) Attests that the candidate possesses no con?icts of interest that would prevent them from adequately
representing the interests of the agency to which they are being appointed; and

 

 

(6) Attests thatthe candidate possesses the adequate quali?cations and skills to adequately represent the
interests ot?the agency and delineates those quali?cations and skills:

 

(7) Notarizes and acknowledges:
a. The candidate?s actual residency address:
b. The length of time that the candidate has resided at their actual residency;
c. If the candidate owns any other residential property within Cook County; and

d. If the candidate obtains any homeowners property tax exemptions for property other than
their actual residency address.

If there is any change in the information contained in the af?davit after the candidate is appointed. the
candidate will notify the Chainnan ofthe Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee in writing
within seven business days of the change.

 

 

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee

13-1588

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 5, 2013 from

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Ted to the North?eld Woods Sanitary District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Mr. will replace Joseph Fagan, who is currently
serving on an expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 4 of 6 Printed on 9/25/2013

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee

13-1589

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 5,2013 from

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Roselyne Navarro to the Central Stickney Sanitary District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Ms. Navarro will replace Fortino Carillo, who is currently

serving on an expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee

13-1590

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 5, 2013 from

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Raul Aguirre to the South Stickney Sanitary District for a term to begin
immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Mr. Aguirre will replace Joseph Ford, who is currently serving on

an expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissionersreferred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 5 of 6 Printed on 9/25/2013

13-1591

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 5, 2013 from
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Larry Paarlberg to the Lincoln-Lansing Drainage District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on September 1, 2016.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental



JMa?/ewB. DeLeon,Sec1eta1y

Relations Committee

 

Chairman: Suffredin
Vice Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Committee of the Whole

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 6 of 6 Printed on 9/25/2013

