Part 1 of 2

 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Law Enforcement Committee

Wednesday, July 13, 2016 8:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and
Tobolski (7)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice Chairman Silvestri asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance
with Cook County Code.

1. Rich Shore, Burbank Police Chief

16-4311

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/10/2016

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)

16-4141
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE and LUIS ARROYO JR, County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

RESOLUTION TO URGE THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS TO PROVIDE FREE BURIAL OF

Page 1 oflO

Part 1 of 2
SPOUSES AND DEPENDENTS OF VETERANS AT ALL VETERAN CEMETERIES

WHEREAS, in 1862 President Lincoln signed into law language that created the first National Cemeteries for
Civil War soldiers who died while in service to the United States; and

WHEREAS, in 1867 Congress provided guidelines for the construction of cemeteries and for the eligibility of
those who can be buried in the national cemeteries free of charge; and

WHEREAS, between 1867 and the 1970s the act was expanded several times to include honorably discharged
members of the Army, Navy, and Marines who died in a destitute condition, solders who died on foreign soil,
U.S. citizens who served in the armed forces of any country at war with Germany or Austria during World War
1, members of the reserve components of the armed forces, and any member of the National Guard; and

WHEREAS, in 1978 the Department of Veterans Affairs created the Veteran Cemetery Grants Program that
assisted states, territories, and federally recognized tribal governments in providing gravesites for veterans in
those areas Where national cemeteries cannot fully satisfy their burial needs; and

WHEREAS, a surviving spouse and dependent or minor child of an eligible veteran or armed forces member
also may be buried in a national cemetery at no charge; and

WHEREAS, states, territories, and tribal governments may impose additional requirements more stringent than
those required by federal law; and

WHEREAS, the Veterans Administration is authorized to reimburse a ?plot allowance? to states for expenses
incurred in the burial of certain veterans; and

WHEREAS, the Veterans Administration does not provide reimbursement for the burial of a surviving spouse
and dependents or minor children of an eligible veteran not buried in national cemeteries; and

WHEREAS, since 1862 more than 3.8 million burials have taken place at the 133 national cemeteries, 33
soldiers? government lots, and Confederate lots containing more than 20,000 acres; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County shall urge the United States Congress to fund the expenses of burial of
spouses and dependents of veterans at cemeteries that are operated by state, territorial, and tribal governments
and that receive funds from the Veteran Cemetery Grants Program; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certi?ed copy of this resolution to be presented to the members of the Illinois delegation of the U.S. Congress.

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this Resolution be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)

16-4198
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner

Page 2 of 10

Part 1 0f 2

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REPORT OF LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED OR TRANSFERRED FIREARMS

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58, Offenses And
Miscellaneous Provisions, Article VII, Report Of Lost, Stolen, Destroyed Or Transferred Firearms, various

sections within this section of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 58-185. - Short title.

This article shall be known as the "Report of Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Transferred Firearms Ordinance of Cook
County, Illinois."

Sec. 58-186. - Purpose.

Requiring persons who own or possess ?rearms within Cook County to report to the Cook County
Sheriff the loss, theft, destruction or transfer of ?rearms will enable Cook County law enforcement agencies or
the Sheriffs Of?ce to timely investigate the loss or theft, protect the public and help improve the public health
and safety of all persons in Cook County.

Permits 3 persons who reports to the Cook County Sheriff the loss. thc?, destruction or transfer of ?rearms to
submit a copy of that report to the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Of?ce to maintain a permanent record of the
loss, stolen, destroyed or transferred ?rearm.

Sec. 58-187. - De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

County means the County of Cook.
Firearm means any pistol, revolver, ri?e, shotgun, machine gun, handgun, assault weapon or other device
that ?ts within the de?nition of "?rearm" contained in the Illinois Firearm Owners Identi?cation Card Act (430

ILCS 65/ 1.1 et seq.) or any successor statute.

Local law enforcement agency means any political subdivision of the State or an agency of a political
subdivision that exists primarily to deter and detect crime and enforce criminal laws, statutes and ordinances.

Recorder means the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Of?ce.
Sheri]? means the Sheriffs Of?ce of Cook County, Illinois.
Sec. 58-188. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to

Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm; and

Page 3 of 10

Part 1 of 2

Any person who owns or possesses a ?rearm and resides outside of Cook County who loses, destroys,
transfers or suffers a theft of the ?rearm in Cook County.

(0) This article shall control the reporting of lost, stolen, destroyed or transferred ?rearms except in home
rule municipalities which have a separate municipal ordinance requiring the reporting of transferred, lost,
stolen or destroyed ?rearms provided that such municipalities share such reporting data with the Cook County
Sheriff pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement.

Sec. 58-189. - Report of lost, stolen, or destroyed ?rearms.

Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm that is lost, stolen,
destroyed, or is otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements of this Code, shall notify the Cook
County Sheriffs Of?ce in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff that his or her ?rearm has been
lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing within 48 hours of the time he or she knows, or should have
known, that his or her ?rearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing, regardless of the
location of where the ?rearm was lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing.

Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a. ?rearm that is lost, stolen, destroyed. or is
otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements ofthis Code, may notifv the Recorder's Of?ce by ?ling
a copy of the report given by a law enforcement agency that his or her ?rearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed, or

is otherwise missing.

(ng) Any person residing outside Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm that is lost, stolen,
destroyed, or is otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements of this Code, shall notify the Cook
County Sheriffs Of?ce in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff that his or her ?rearm has been
lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing within 48 hours of the time he or she knows, or should have
known, that the ?rearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing, if the ?rearm was lost,
stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing in Cook County.



A person reporting a ?rearm lost, stolen, destroyed, or otherwise missing shall provide the following
information:

(1) Owner name;

(2) Owner address;

(3) Owner Firearm Owner's Identi?cation Card number;
(4) Date of acquisition;

(5) Place of acquisition;

(6) Means of acquisition;

(7) Firearm type;

(8) Firearm serial number; and

(9) Date when ?rearm was lost, stolen, destroyed, or otherwise missing.

Page 4 of 10

Part 1 of 2

Sec. 58-190. Report of transferred ?rearms.
Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm, in addition to any other

requirements of this Code, shall report the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of the ?rearm to the
Cook County Sheriffs Of?ce in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff within 48 hours of the time

when the ?rearm has been sold, transferred, inherited, or otherwise disposed of, regardless of the location
where the sale, transfer, inheritance or other disposition of the ?rearm has occurred.

b) Ans,r person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm may report the sale, tl'ansfer._
inheritance, or other disposition ofthe ?rearm to the Recorder?s Of?ce by ?ling a com ofthe documentation
recording the sale, transfer, inheritance or other disposition.

(9) Any person residing outside of Cook County who owns or possesses a ?rearm, in addition to any
other requirements of this Code, shall report the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of the ?rearm
to the Cook County Sheriffs Of?ce in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff within 48 hours of the
time when the ?rearm has been sold, transferred, inherited, or otherwise disposed of, when the sale, transfer,
inheritance, or other disposition of the ?rearm occurs within Cook County.

(6) person reporting the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of a ?rearm shall provide the
following information:

(1) Owner name;

(2) Owner address;

(3) Owner Firearm Owner?s Identi?cation Card number;

(4) Date of acquisition;

(5) Place of acquisition;

(6) Means of acquisition;

(7) Firearm type;

(8) Firearm serial number;

(9) Date of sale, transfer, inheritance or other disposition; and

(10) The name, address, and Firearm Owner's Identi?cation Card number of the transferee.
Sec. 58-191. - Exempt from reporting requirements.

The reporting provisions in Section 58-189 and Section 58?190 do not apply to the following persons:

Sworn law enforcement of?cials while engaged in their of?cial duties; and

Page 5 of 10

Part 1 of 2

Members of the Armed Forces of the United States or the National Guard while engaged in their
of?cial duties.

Sec. 58-192. - Violations; penalties.
Any person violating or failing to truthfully comply with any of the reporting provisions in Section 58-

189 or Section 58-190 of this article as required by the Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce shall be issued a notice
of violation and shall be subject to a mandatory ?ne of $1,000.00 for the ?rst violation; $1,500.00 for the
second violation and $2,000.00 for each subsequent violation in addition to any other ?nes or penalties
applicable from any Federal, State or local laws or ordinances.

If any ?ne is imposed pursuant to this section, such ?ne shall constitute a debt due and owing to the
County. If the ?ne is not paid within 30 days after the expiration of the time within which judicial or
administrative review of the adverse determination may be sought, or within 30 days after an action seeking
review has been resolved in favor of the County, the Sheriff, Director of the Department of Revenue or the
State's Attorney may seek to obtain judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the person ?ned.

Sec. 58-193. - Enforcement; rules and regulations.
The Sheriff is authorized to enforce the required provisions of this article.

The Sheriff is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations for the
implementation of this article and to prescribe all forms and the information required thereon that is not
otherwise required in this article.

(0) The Sheriff shall receive, collect and ?le the reports of the transfer, loss, destruction or theft of
?rearms and cooperate or make available to law enforcement agencies the reports, for the purpose of
investigative efforts.

The Sheriff shall determine whether a person to whom a ?rearm is transferred has a valid Firearm
Owner's Identi?cation Card issued by the Illinois State Police. If the Sheriff determines the transferee does
not possess a valid Firearm Owner?s Identi?cation Card or the transferee's Firearm Owner's Identi?cation
Card has been revoked, the Sheriff shall have the authority to recover the Firearm Owner's Identi?cation Card
and any and all ?rearms under the custody and control of the transferee.

The Sheriff is authorized to cooperate with the state, municipalities, other County agencies and other
law enforcement entities to facilitate the implementation of this article.

Thc_Recorder is authorized to adopt, promulgate and en force rules and regulations for the
implementation ot'this article and to develop a mechanism for ensuring the privacy nt'l'hi_s inter-mating

[m The Recorder is authorized to disseminate this information only to law enforcement agencies aspart nt'a
criminal investigation.

 

Sec. 58-194. - Administrative adjudication.

Any person issued a notice of violation pursuant to this article may request an administrative hearing in

Page 6 of 10

Part 1 of 2
accordance with Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
Sec. 58-195. - Severability.

If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or clause of this article or the application thereof to any
person is for any reason deemed to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect, impair or
invalidate any remaining section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof or the application of this
article to any other person.

Secs. 58-196-58?199. - Reserved.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2017

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)

16-4199
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COOK COUNTY CHIEF OFFICE TO CREATE
A SPEAKERS BUREAU AS AN EDUCATIONAL TOOL TO PROMOTE THE OF
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT

WHEREAS, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution provides citizens the right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury; and

WHEREAS, court cases have ruled that an impartial jury is selected from a pool of individuals that represent a
cross section of the community in regards to race, gender, and national origin; and

WHEREAS, in the American judicial system, the juror is entrusted with protecting the individual rights to life
and liberty; and

WHEREAS, jury service teaches an individual the skills needed for analyzing and processing contesting facts,
debating issues, listening and tolerating dissenting opinions; and

WHEREAS, a 2007 survey by the National Center for State Courts estimates that 32 million individuals are
summoned to service annually, but only 8 million actually show up to serve, and of that amount only 1.5 million
are selected to sit on a jury in a state each year; and

WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 99-0434 amended the Illinois School Code to require students to have at least
one semester of civics in order to graduate from high school; and

Page 7 of 10

Part 1 of 2

WHEREAS, this course will allow schools to integrate service projects with the classroom curriculum in
enabling students to leverage their knowledge to address community issues; and

WHEREAS, civic education has been used to teach the skills needed to be responsible citizens; and

WHEREAS, civics focuses on providing information on governmental institutions, current and controversial
issues, and the importance of the jury to our system of justice; and

WHEREAS, the new graduation requirements took effect as of January 1, 2016; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County Commissioner Stanley Moore will work on behalf of the Board in

collaboration with the Office of the Chief Judge of Cook County to create a Speakers Bureau consisting of
current and retired members of the bar; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that that the purpose of the Speakers Bureau is to reach out to the students
within the 4th District to discuss the importance of citizens performing their civic duty and responding to a
summons for jury duty; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Cook County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
copy of this resolution to Chief Judge Timothy Evans.

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Resolution be
accepted as amendment. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)

Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COOK COUNTY CHIEF OFFICE TO CREATE
A SPEAKERS BUREAU AS AN EDUCATIONAL TOOL TO PROMOTE THE INIPORTANCE OF
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT

WHEREAS, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution provides citizens the right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury; and

WHEREAS, court cases have ruled that an impartial jury is selected from a pool of individuals that represent a
cross section of the community in regards to race, gender, and national origin; and

WHEREAS, in the American judicial system, the juror is entrusted with protecting the individual rights to life
and liberty; and

WHEREAS, jury service teaches an individual the skills needed for analyzing and processing contesting facts,

Page 8 of 10

Part 1 of 2
debating issues, listening and tolerating dissenting opinions; and

WHEREAS, a 2007 survey by the National Center for State Courts estimates that 32 million individuals are
summoned to service annually, but only 8 million actually show up to serve, and of that amount only 1.5 million
are selected to sit on a jury in a state each year; and

WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 99-0434 amended the Illinois School Code to require students to have at least
one semester of civics in order to graduate from high school; and

WHEREAS, this course will allow schools to integrate service projects with the classroom curriculum in
enabling students to leverage their knowledge to address community issues; and

WHEREAS, civic education has been used to teach the skills needed to be responsible citizens; and

WHEREAS, civics focuses on providing information on governmental institutions, current and controversial
issues, and the importance of the jury to our system of justice; and

WHEREAS, the new graduation requirements took effect as of January 1, 2016; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County Commissioner Stanley Moore will work on behalf of the Board in

collaboration with the Of?ce of the Chief Judge of Cook County to create a Speakers Bureau consisting of
current and retired members of the bar; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that that the purpose of the Speakers Bureau is to reach out to the students
within the4?h?Distriet-Cook County to discuss the importance of citizens performing their civic duty and
responding to a summons for jury duty; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Cook County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
copy of this resolution to Chief Judge Timothy Evans.

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Resolution be
approval as amended. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Chairman Moore, seconded by Commissioner Butler, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Goslin and Tobolski

(7)

Page 9 of 10

 

Part 1 of2

Respectfully submitted,

?g 6.2L

 

 

Secretary

 

video recording of this meeting is available at legsmmum

Page 10 of 10

