BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA
Wednesday, September 14, 2016, 11:00 AM

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three
(3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda
and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.

CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in
the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.

PRESIDENT
16-4657
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and BRIDGET GAINER, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ally Brisbin
Position: Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 9/14/2018 or until a successor is appointed
16-5235
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ernest Brown
Position: Chairman
Department/Board/Commission: Emergency Telephone Systems Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 9/14/2018 or until a successor is appointed
Page 2 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

COMMISSIONERS
16-5102
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY and SEAN M. MORRISON, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY AMUSEMENT TAX
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the County Board to recognize and encourage both the artists who add to
our cultural identity as well as the venues that allow them to display their talents to crowds from around the
County and around the world by exempting them from the City and County’s amusement tax for live
performances; and
WHEREAS, it is not the role of government to restrictively decide and define what is and is not ‘music’;
and
WHEREAS, to single out one or any type of music genre performed at these types of venues as not
applicable to the small venue exemption clause is not in the spirit or purpose of the exemption clause nor
the expansive definition of music;
WHEREAS, as the recording industry and music genres have evolved, the National Academy of Recording
Arts and Sciences has recognized although sometimes more slowly than society at large, that new music
genres evolve and form, such as Rock, Rap, Reggae, Metal, Roots, Electronica, New Age etc.; and
WHEREAS, DJ’s have been considered an art form for many years now and in fact the National Academy
of Recording Arts and Sciences’ Grammy Awards created the Grammy Award for Remixer of the Year,
Non-Classical at the 40th Grammy Awards in 1998 to recognize an individual(s) who takes previously
recorded material and adds or alters it in such a way as to create a new and unique performance; and
WHEREAS, the first Grammy Award for such category was presented to Chicago’s very own Frankie
Knuckles whose key role in developing and popularizing House music into an internationally recognized
musical genre during the 1980s led to him being referred to as the "The Godfather of House Music."; and
WHEREAS, in 1998, the Cook County Board created an exemption to the Amusement Tax for small
venues with a maximum capacity of not more than 750 persons, and in 1999 the County Board further
amended said ordinance by defining live performances by examples giving several genre examples and art
forms including live musical performances, but does not restrict it to only those examples by including the
encompassing term “music”; and
WHEREAS, the current language contained in the County Code has created unintended and unnecessary
confusion as to what constitutes ‘music’ and has created undue burdens on venue operators who are being
required to comply with inconsistent definitions, restrictions and exemptions by the County and the City of
Chicago; and
Page 3 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74 Taxation, Article X, Amusement Tax, Sections 74-391 and 74-392 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-391. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement means any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment
purposes, including, but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
promotional show, motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic
contest, sport, game or similar exhibition, such as boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, riding
on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball, softball, soccer, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field
games, bowling, or billiard and pool games. For purposes of this article, the term "amusement" shall not
mean any recreational activity offered for public participation or on a membership or other basis, including,
but not limited to, carnivals, amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiards and pool games, dancing,
tennis, golf, racquetball, swimming, weightlifting, bodybuilding or similar activities. For purposes of this
article, the term "amusement" shall not mean raffles, as defined in 230 ILCS 15/1 (Raffles Act-definitions),
intertrack wagering facilities, as defined in the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 (230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.), or
automatic amusement devices.
Automatic amusement devices means any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, slug,
token, or similar object may be operated generally by any person for use as a game, entertainment or
amusement, whether or not registering a score, and includes, but is not limited to, such devices as jukeboxes,
marble machines, pinball machines, video games, movie or video booths or stands and all games, operations
or transactions similar thereto under whatever name by which they may be indicated.
Charges paid means the gross amount of consideration paid for the privilege to enter, to
witness or to view an amusement, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credits, property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever,
but not including charges that are added on account of the tax imposed by this article or on account of any
other tax imposed on the charge.
Department and Department of Revenue means the County Department of Revenue.
Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a live performance in
any of the disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of the fine arts, such as live theater, music
(including disc jockey (DJ) activities as further prescribed in Sec. (d) (1), opera, drama, comedy, ballet,
modern or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not include such amusements as
athletic events, races, or performances conducted at adult entertainment cabarets (as defined in Section
14.2.1 of the Cook County Zoning Ordinance).

Page 4 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other space may
accommodate as determined by the local fire department or other appropriate governmental agency;
provided, however, that maximum capacity shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions
that may be made available for sale to a performance as stated in any binding written agreement relating to
that performance. If the number of tickets or admissions actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally
permissible limit, then, for purposes of determining the applicable tax, the term "maximum capacity" shall
mean such greater number.
Operator means any person who sells or resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for
consideration or who, directly or indirectly, receives or collects the charges paid for the sale or resale of a
ticket or other license to an amusement. The term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the
business of selling or reselling tickets or other licenses to amusement, whether on-line, in person or
otherwise.
Owner means:
(1) With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being held, any person who
has an ownership or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat, area or other
place who presents, conducts or operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by
agreement or otherwise, another person to present, conduct or operate an amusement in
such place;
(2) With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an ownership or
leasehold interest in such amusement or any person who has a proprietary interest in the
amusement so as to entitle such person to all or a portion of the proceeds, after payment
of reasonable expenses, from the operation, conduct or presentation of such amusement,
excluding proceeds from nonamusement services and from sales of tangible personal
property.
Patron means a person who acquires the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an
amusement.
Person means any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
limited liability company, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation,
receiver, executor, trustee or other representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular and plural are
included in any circumstance.
Resale means the resale of a ticket or other license to an amusement after the ticket or other
license has been sold by the owner, manager or operator of the amusement, or by the owner, manager or
operator of the place where the amusement is being held, to an independent and unrelated third party.
Reseller means a person who resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for
consideration. The term includes, but is not limited to, ticket brokers and applies whether the ticket is resold
by bidding, consignment or otherwise and whether the ticket is resold in person, at a site on the Internet or
otherwise.
Page 5 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Ticket means the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an amusement, whether or not
expressed in a tangible form.
Sec. 74-392. - Tax imposed.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is imposed upon the
patrons of every amusement which takes place within the County. The rate of the tax shall be equal to three
percent of the admission fees or other charges paid for the privilege to enter, to witness or to view such
amusement, unless subsection (f) of this section provides for a lower rate.
(b) The tax imposed by subsection (a) of this section may be waived for the following
persons or privileges, after approval by the Department of Revenue or, if applicable, the Cook County
Board of Commissioners:
(1) The privilege of witnessing any stock show or business show that is not open to the
general public;
(2) The privilege of witnessing any amateur production or activity such as amateur
musicals, plays and athletic events conducted by a not-for-profit organization operated
exclusively for charitable, educational or religious purposes;
(3) Subject to satisfying the requirement contained in subsection (c) of this section, the
privilege of witnessing any amusement sponsored or conducted by and the proceeds of
which, after payment of reasonable expenses, inure exclusively to the benefit of:
a.

Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or organizations;

b.

Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;

c.

Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the purpose of civic
improvement;

d.

Fraternal organizations, legion posts, social and political groups which conduct
amusements, sponsored occasionally but not more often than twice yearly;
Provided, however, that the entities described in subsections (b)(3)a-d of this section
are not-for-profit institutions, organizations, groups or societies, where no part of the
net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or person;

e.

Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United States, or National Guard
organizations, reserve officers' associations, or organizations or posts of war veterans,
or auxiliary units or societies of such posts or organizations, if such posts,
organizations, units or societies are organized in the State of Illinois, and if no part of
their earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or person;

Page 6 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners
f.

September 14, 2016

Organizations or associations created and maintained for the purpose of benefiting the
members, or dependents or heirs of members, of the police or fire departments of any
political subdivision of the State of Illinois;
Provided, however, that the exemptions contained in subsections (b)(3)a-f of this
section shall apply only to benefits or other fundraising events and shall not apply to
more than two events per calendar year which shall not exceed a total of 14 calendar
days;

g.

Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining symphony
orchestras, opera performances or artistic presentations, including, but not limited to,
musical presentations ("artistic societies or organizations"), if the artistic society or
organization:
1.

Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;

2.

Is a not-for-profit institution where no part of the net earnings inure to the
benefit of any private shareholder or person; and

3.

Either (i) bears all risk of financial loss from its presentation of the amusement,
where the amusement takes place at a venue that is owned or operated by a notfor-profit institution, no part of whose net earnings inure to the benefit of any
private shareholder or person, and where the amusement is limited to an
engagement of not more than four calendar days over the course of a calendar
year, or (ii) is substantially and materially involved in the production and
performance of the amusement. Where an amusement is sponsored or
conducted by two or more artistic societies or organizations, the requirements
of subsections (b)(3)g.1. and 2. of this section must be met by each of such
artistic societies or organizations, but the requirements of subsection (b)(3)g.3.
may be met by any of such artistic societies or organizations, individually or in
combination.

(c) None of the exemptions contained in subsection (b)(3) of this section shall be granted
unless a written application for exemption is filed with the Department at least 45 calendar days prior to the
amusement event or 15 calendar days prior to the date that admission tickets to the amusement are first
made available for sale, whichever is earlier. The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Director
of Revenue and shall contain all information necessary to permit the Department to determine whether the
exemption claimed by the applicant is applicable. If the department determines that by granting the
exemption the potential loss of tax revenue will be greater than $150,000.00 the application shall be
submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for final approval. The County Board may deny
the exemption application if it finds that the exemption is not in the best economic interest of the County.
(d) The tax imposed in subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to or be imposed upon:

Page 7 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

(1) The admission fees to witness in person, live theatrical, live musical or other live
cultural performances that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the
County, whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is not
more than 750 persons.
a. For purposes of subsection (d)(1), the Department will assume that the activities of
the DJ qualify as a live cultural performance where both of the following conditions
exist:
1. The pre-recorded material used by the DJ was recorded by the DJ. This may be
original work composed by the DJ or the work of other artists that the DJ has mixed
or otherwise modified.
2. The DJ is paid substantially above the rate that would be paid solely for the service
of playing the pre-recorded material of other artists. The Department will assume
that the payment of $2,000 or more for a single performance qualifies the event for
this provision.
b. Where the activities of a DJ do not qualify for the provision set forth in Subsection
(d)(1)a. 1. and 2. of this section, they may nevertheless qualify as a live cultural
performance if at least four of the five following factors apply:
1. The DJ is featured in advertisements for the venue.
2. The DJ is visible to patrons of the venue, who spend a substantial amount of time
observing the DJ’s performance.
3. The DJ is featured more prominently than other amusements or activities available
at the venue.
4. The patrons are charged substantially above the amount that would be paid for
entry into the venue in the absence of the DJ. For purposes of this provision, the
term “substantially above” means at least one and a half times the amount that
would be charged without the DJ.
5. The DJ is represented by a manager and/or agent.
(2) Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club, racquetball club, tennis club
or a similar club or organization, when such club or organization is organized and
operated on a membership basis and for the recreational purposes of its members and
its members' guests, shall be exempt from the tax imposed in subsection (a) of this
section. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to any fees paid or based upon
a per-event or a per-admission basis.

Page 8 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

(3) Fees or other charges paid by a patron for the privilege of witnessing, viewing or
participating in an amusement, solely within the confines of such patron's home, shall
be exempt from the imposition of the tax imposed in subsection (a) of this section. For
purposes of this exemption, the term "home" means the permanent dwelling residence
of the patron. For patrons who live in condominium buildings, apartment buildings or
other multiple-unit structures, the individual dwelling unit the patron occupies shall be
considered the patron's home.
(e) For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due under this article,
admission fees or other charges shall be computed exclusive of:
(1) Any Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed upon the amusement patron.
(2) Any amounts subject to other Cook County taxes (with the exception of County
Retailers' Occupation Tax), provided such County taxes are separately listed on the
ticket of admission and the corresponding Cook County tax has been paid on that
separately stated amount.
(3) Any separately stated optional charges for nonamusement services or for sales of
tangible personal property.
(f) It is unlawful for any person to produce, present or conduct any amusement without
collection of the tax, except as provided in this article.
(1) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection (a) of this section shall be one percent of the
admission fees or other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other
live cultural performances that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in
the County whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is
more than 750 persons and less than 5,000 persons.
(2) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection (a) of this section shall be 1.5 percent of the
admission fees or other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other
live cultural performances that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in
the County whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is
5,000 persons or more.
(g) It shall be presumed that all amusements are subject to tax under this article until the
contrary is established by books, records or other documentary evidence.
(h) It is unlawful for any person to produce, present, conduct, or resell tickets to, any
amusement without collection of the tax, except as provided in this article.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 9 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5204
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, JOHN P. DALEY, GREGG GOSLIN, SEAN M. MORRISON
and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TO PASS LEGISLATION
EXEMPTING TEAM USA MEMBERS FROM FEDERAL TAXATION ON THEIR OLYMPIC
WINNINGS
WHEREAS, Olympic winners receive $25,000 for a gold medal, $15,000 for a silver medal, and
$10,000 for a bronze medal, and the gold and silver medals themselves are valued anywhere from $564
to $300; and
WHEREAS, the Internal Revenue Service considers those winnings fully taxable achievement awards;
and
WHEREAS, there is a great disparity of income level among Olympic athletes; most do not receive
lucrative endorsement contracts, and some maintain amateur status and are college students who rely on
family support and scholarships; and
WHEREAS, Olympic athletes can pay an income tax of anywhere from 10% to 39.6% depending on
their income; those in the highest bracket can expect to pay tax of approximately $9,900 for one gold
medal; and
WHEREAS, support for exempting Olympians from being taxed on medal earnings has crossed party
lines, is supported by President Obama, and is gaining momentum given the record-breaking 121 medals
won by athletes representing the United States in Brazil; and
WHEREAS, in July of 2016, the Senate passed the United States Appreciation for Olympians and
Paralympians Act, which would exempt Team USA members from federal taxation on their Olympic
wins; and
WHEREAS, House of Representative leaders have pledged to vote this September on a bill identical to
the one passed by the Senate that would retroactively apply to the 2016 games in Rio De Janeiro; and
WHEREAS, this legislation would have no impact on federal taxes on athletes’ sponsorship or
endorsement income.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners urge the
United States House of Representatives to pass the United States Appreciation for Olympians and
Paralympians Act; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this resolution be distributed to the United
States House of Representatives.

Page 10 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5025
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI and ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING PUBLICLY FUNDED UNIVERSITIES IN ILLINOIS TO COMPLY WITH FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION REQUESTS REGARDING USE OF ANIMALS IN SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCH
WHEREAS, various taxpayer-funded research institutions across the nation, including the University of
Illinois (U of I), have refused to provide records requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
from advocacy groups regarding animal care and justification for the experiments conducted; and
WHEREAS, many of these same institutions have been involved in costly litigation over animal
research practices and documents; and
WHEREAS, opening records would jeopardize neither research nor the privacy of employees as federal
FOIA and state public-disclosure laws contain protections for trade secrets and other forms of personal
and proprietary information; and
WHEREAS, a lawsuit filed by the Beagle Freedom Project (so named because beagles’ size and docile
nature make them the frequent subject to such research) states that research protocols show that the U of
I is testing cardiovascular toxicity, and that the university admitted to classifying its veterinary records as
research records so it doesn’t have to disclose them; and
WHEREAS, the Beagle Freedom Project has helped pass legislation in the states of Minnesota,
California, Connecticut, and Nevada that requires public labs to offer animals up for adoption after
experiments conclude, and animal records the project obtained from the Ohio State University helped
pass a law barring labs from obtaining animals from questionable sources; and
WHEREAS, the Animal Welfare Act has been the primary federal law covering laboratory animals in
the United States, but there is no provision in the law that restricts what can be done to an animal during
a study; it applies only to the type of care an animal receives before and after experimentation; and
WHEREAS, an increasing number of scientists have admitted that unlike experimenting on animals to
help humans, modern methods, such as in vitro testing, computer modeling, human-patient simulators,
and genomics, take advantage of technological developments to provide more accurate and humane
options for research; and
WHEREAS, so powerful and effective are these non-animal technologies that in 2008, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the National Toxicology Program, and the National Institutes
of Health launched the ToxCast initiative to promote cutting-edge technology to replace the use of
animals in toxicity testing; and
WHEREAS, recent significant changes in the laboratory animal regulatory environment have prompted
new scientific protocols, which state that using animals in research is a privilege granted by society to the
research community with the expectation that such use will provide either significant new knowledge or
Page 11 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

lead to improvement in human and/or animal well-being, and that these principles direct the research
community to accept responsibility for the care and use of animals during all phases of the research
effort; and
WHEREAS, in June of 2016 President Obama signed the first federal bill that will modernize chemical
testing, reduce the use of animals, and require the EPA to fund and develop non-animal methods; and
WHEREAS, it is reasonable that taxpayers in Cook County and the State of Illinois want to know that
animals used in research are being treated humanely.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners hereby urge Illinois state institutions that use public funds for scientific research on
animals to cooperate with FOIA requests to help ascertain the nature of such experimentation and to
justify the expenditure of public funds.

SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
16-5183
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
REPORT
Department: Secretary to the Board
Request: Receive and file
Report Title: RESOLUTION 14-4341 SPECIAL PURPOSE FUND REPORTING
Report Period: 2nd Quarter FY 2016
Summary: Resolution 14-4341 directs that a report of all special purpose fund transactions be made to
the Secretary of the Cook County Board of Commissioners by the office or agency responsible for
administering each special purpose fund on a quarterly basis.
Reports shall be provided to the Secretary's office no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal
quarter, at which point the Secretary will aggregate the reports for distribution to the Board of
Commissioners and the Director of Budget and Management Services on the next available Board
Agenda;
Reports shall be in a format as prescribed by the Director of Budget & Management Services. Such
format shall ensure that the reports contain sufficiently detailed supporting information as to the specifics
of each transaction and a justification regarding how each transaction relates to the purpose of the special
purpose fund.

Page 12 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT

16-4978
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Risk Management
Vendor: First Commonwealth, Inc., wholly owned subsidiary of The Guardian Life Insurance Company
of America, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Employer Sponsored Dental Benefits
Contract Value: $29,470,000.00
Contract period: 12/1/2016 - 11/30/2019, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $9,160,000.00, FY 2018 $9,820,000.00, FY 2019
$10,490,000.00
Accounts: 542-177
Contract Number(s): 1518-14993
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Risk Management is requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to award a contract to First Commonwealth, Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of Guardian
(“Guardian”) to provide employer sponsored dental insurance benefits for Cook County Employees.
Cook County currently offers both DHMO and DPPO dental plan options for all eligible employees. The
plan design, including applicable co-pays and out-of-pocket maximums, is negotiated through the
collective bargaining process. Employees do not contribute to the cost of the plans. The expense is
covered through annual appropriations.
The Director of Risk Management is authorized to review and approve the Subscription Certification and
Evidence of Coverage to support the selected DHMO and DPPO plans.
This contract is awarded through Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Guardian was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
Page 13 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
16-5095
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Administration, Printing and Graphic Services (PGS)
Vendor: Genoa Business Forms, Inc., Sycamore, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Printing of Carbonless Forms
Original Contract Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2016, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/1/2017 - 12/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $431,572.80
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/17/2014, $431,572.80
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $285,786.40
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $70,000.00; FY 2017 $215,786.40
Accounts: 011-355
Contract Number(s): 1435-13499
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via indirect
participation and partial MWBE waiver
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology concurs

Page 14 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: This increase and first of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Bureau of
Administration Printing and Graphic Services to continue to outsource carbonless form printing requests
submitted by various County Agencies including the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the Sheriff’s Office, the
Health and Hospitals System, the State’s Attorney’s Office, and Adult Probation. This contract will
provide printing of carbonless forms for approximately 100 medium to large quantity orders annually.
This contract will also provide a 10% to 40% savings depending on the quantity of each order.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Genoa Business Forms, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
16-4981
Presented by: DEBORAH STONE, Director, Department of Environmental Control
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT RENEWAL
Department: Cook County Department of Environmental Control
Other Part(ies): Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
Request: Approval of Delegation Agreement between the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and
Cook County
Goods or Services: Pursuant to this Delegation Agreement the county shall have certain authority, as
described in the agreement, to act on behalf of the Illinois EPA to make inspections and conduct
investigations of solid waste management sites. The Illinois EPA and Cook County agree that Cook
County may bring actions for violations of any section of the Environmental Protection Act in the name
of the People of the State of Illinois
Agreement Number: N/A
Agreement Period: Original Agreement 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2017 Renewal period 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2021
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The purpose of this Delegation Agreement is to satisfactorily act on public concerns for
human health and the environment and agree upon a mutually cooperative program for inspecting solid
waste management sites in the County, for sharing information obtained regarding solid waste disposal in
the County and for follow-up activity in situations where violations of environmental laws are detected.

Page 15 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS
16-1571
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File.
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Progress Report
Report Period: Ending 7/31/2016
Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Report ending 7/31/2016.
16-4302
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Received and File.
Report Title: Engineering Status Report
Report Period: 6/30/2016 (Quarterly)
Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Engineering Status Report Quarterly ending 6/30/2016.
16-4307
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Purchase of Bulk Salt De-Icing Materials
Maintenance District(s): 1, 2, 4 and 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13-17
Page 16 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Fiscal Impact: $2,370,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for the purchase of bulk rock salt and deicing materials for ice and
snow control on various County maintained highways 2016 fiscal year ending 11/30/2016.
This appropriation, as proposed, is required by the Department to assist the Maintenance Bureau in
carrying out its mission to ensure public safety by providing a safe, efficient, and effective roadway
network. Summarize expense and add additional information
16-4545
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): BP Products North America Inc. Naperville, Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: Highway Authority Agreement with a Supplemental Agreement
Location: 7059 South Ashland Avenue (CH W48) at 71st Street in the City of Chicago
Section Number: N/A
County Board District: 2
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Agreement Period: one-time agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A

Page 17 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: The Highway Authority Agreement along with an attached Supplemental Agreement has been
prepared in compliance with Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) directives in dealing with
petroleum contamination to soils. The County, by executing the Agreement, will agree to restrict the
extraction of potable water from its highway right-of-way at this location, inform Permittees of the
proscribed status of the referenced location and require that Permittees properly dispose of excavated soil.
The Agreement further makes provisions for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the County should the
Department of Transportation and Highways be required in the course of normal maintenance to expose
and dispose of contaminated soils. The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department. I
therefore respectfully recommend that it be executed.
16-4715
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
HIGHWAYS)

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

AGREEMENT

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Crestwood in Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: Phase I Preliminary Engineering and Phase II Civil Engineering Design Services
and preparation of construction plans, specifications, estimates and contract documents for sidewalk and
bicycle path improvements along Midlothian Turnpike from Central Avenue to Pulaski Road. The
County will reimburse the Village for its share of the Phase I Preliminary Engineering and Phase II Civil
Engineering Design Services costs; estimated total County cost $61,000.00, under Cook County Section
16-B8027-00-EG
Location: Midlothian Turnpike, Central Avenue to Pulaski Road in the Village of Crestwood
Section: S16-B8027-00-EG
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 5, 6
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: one-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: $61,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

Page 18 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement which is needed to provide a safe and
sustainable facility for pedestrians and general public.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.
16-4765
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): A Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
Action: Approve
Good(s) or Service(s): This is a Quality Control/Quality Assurance (QC/QA) improvement to provide
diamond grinding of the existing P.C.C. pavement, pavement repair with P.C. Concrete Pavement or
Class B Patch, removal and replacement of damaged combination concrete curb and gutter, crack and
joint routing and sealing, median removal and replacement, traffic protection, drainage repairs and
adjustments, pavement marking, removal and replacement of raised reflective pavement markers, and
removal and replacement of traffic signal detector loops, and other related work to complete the project.
Location of Project: Hintz Road, Arlington Heights Road to Elmhurst Road in the Villages of
Arlington Heights, Wheeling and in the City of Prospect Heights
Section: 12-A5414-03-RP
County Board District: 14, 17
Contract Number: 12-23-432
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: Final cost of project
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $37,856.50 or 1.8% above the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: On 2/5/2013 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to A. Lamp Concrete Contractors,
Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans
and specifications. The awarded contract amount of this project was $2,128,517.80 and the final
construction cost is $2,166,374.30.
Page 19 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

The additions are attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities
of work performed with increases in concrete patching, combination concrete curb and gutter, sodding
and topsoil which were required to complete the project.
16-4768
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: This appropriation, as proposed, shall consist of the complete removal of the existing bridge
and replacing it with a three-span reinforced concrete slab bridge with one lane in each direction,
approach pavement, 10-foot multi-use path on the east side of the bridge, bridge pavement connector at
each end of the bridge, pavement markings, landscape restoration, engineering and other necessary
highway appurtenance.
Location: Happ Road over Skokie River in the Village of Winnetka
Section: 16-W4043-00-BR
County Board District(s): 13
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $3,440,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement will promote economic development, regional mobility, and is needed to
protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable
highway.

Page 20 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-4769
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Construction Management Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 16-8CEGN-00-EG
Fiscal Impact: $2,500,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
16-4770
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approve
Good(s) or Services(s): Geotechnical Engineering Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 16-6SOIL-00-ES
Fiscal Impact: $360,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This resolution is for appropriating funds for soil borings and other related geotechnical
engineering services at various locations throughout Cook County by an outside engineering consultant.

Page 21 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

This appropriation, as proposed, consist of soil borings and related soils analyses, geotechnical reports
with recommendations derived from soil investigations, definition of strength properties and
characteristics of the underlying soils to support the roadway pavement and highway structures, clean
construction or demolition debris soil testing, and other engineering tasks and shall include supervision
by County forces.
This appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable
Body at a later date.
This improvement will promote economic development, regional mobility, and is needed to protect the
public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.
16-4771
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Fracture Critical, Hands On and In Depth Bridge Inspection Program
Location: Various Location within Cook County
County Board Districts: 5, 6, 11, 14, 16, 17
Section: 16-6BIST-00-ES
Fiscal Impact: $480,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: 600-585 Account
Summary: Motor Fuel Tax Project
The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a resolution
appropriating funds for the inspection, by an outside consulting firm, of ten (10) steel truss bridges at the
following locations:

Page 22 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

FRACTURE CRITICAL/IN-DEPTH INSPECTION LOCATION
104th Avenue (CH W25) over Calumet Sag Channel in Unincorporated Palos Township
Ridgeland Avenue (CH W37) over Calumet Sag Channel in the Village of Alsip and City of Palos
Heights
Crawford Avenue (CH W43) over Calumet Sag Channel in the Villages of Alsip and Crestwood
Francisco Avenue (CH W95) over Calumet Sag Channel in the Unincorporated Worth Township
IN-DEPTH INSPECTION LOCATION
Central Avenue (CH W39) over ICG RR & Ground in the Village of Forest View and Unincorporated
Stickney Township
Central Avenue (CH W39) over Sanitary Drainage &Ship Canal (North of I-55) in the Villages of Forest
View, Stickney and unincorporated Stickney Township
Barrypoint Road (CH W88) over Des Plaines River in the Village of Riverside and Unincorporated
Forest Preserve
East Lake Avenue (CH A59) under C. & N.W. R.R.in the Village of Glenview
East Lake (CH A50) under SOO(WICT) AMTK. R.R. in the Village of Glenview
Lake Cook Road (CH A50) under SOO Line (METRA) R.R in the Village of Deerfield
Lake Cook Road (CH A50) under C. & N.W. R.R. in the Village of Northbrook
Sauk Trail Road (CH C11) under I.C.G. R.R. (Main Line) in the Village of Richton Park
Sauk Trail Road (CH C11) under I.C.G. R.R. (Commuter) in the Village of Richton Park
This work, as proposed, will consist of the inspection and non-destructive testing of fracture critical and
non-redundant steel bridge members and connections to determine the structural adequacy of the bridges,
including a written report for each bridge addressing structural adequacy, deficiencies and
recommendations for remediation, as more fully described in an Engineering Services Agreement to be
presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

Page 23 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-4902
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: This appropriation, as proposed, shall consist of pedestrian safety improvements which shall
include crosswalk improvements, ADA upgrades, traffic control and protection, pavement marking,
landscaping, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
Location: Halsted Street at 144th Street Crosswalk in the Village of Riverdale
Section: 16-HLSTD-00-PV
County Board District(s): 5
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $79,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement will provide safer pedestrian accommodations at the intersection for the
general public and the Thornton Township Senior/Youth and Family Services Center to public
transportation and the County Forest Preserve on the west side of Halsted Avenue at 144th Street, and is
needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient and
sustainable highway. Summarize and Justify project and the responsibilities of the County.
16-5026
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Transportation and Highways
Grantee: Cook County Department and Transportation and Highways
Grantor: Illinois Department of Transportation Economic Development Program (EPD)
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Page 24 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Purpose: 134th Street, Halsted Street and Marsden Drive where the scope of work shall include the
reconstruction of the existing pavement to concrete pavement, drainage improvements, Complete Streets
compliance, landscaping, engineering, and other necessary highway appurtenances.
Location: 134th Street, Halsted Street and Marsden Drive in the Village of Riverdale
County Board District: 5
Section: 16-13433-00-RP
Project Number: M-4003(788)
Job Number: P-91-397-16
Grant Amount: $1,785,743.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2017 - 12/31/2019
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The value of infrastructure improvement to economic development and job creation in Cook
County has been highlighted and prioritized in the County’s Long Range Transportation Plan,
Connecting Cook County.
Improvements are needed to 134th Street, a roadway under the Village of Riverdale’s jurisdiction
authority to provide a safe and sustainable highway to accommodate truck and vehicular traffic
associated with an existing steel manufacturer and support development of the regional economy.
Cook County is willing to act as the lead agent for roadway improvements along 134th Street from
Halsted Street to Marsden Drive and has secured Grant Funding to pay for this improvement.

Page 25 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5072
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: This improvement is required to perform the emergency repair work needed to correct the
damage caused by water from the lake in Burr Ridge, on County Line Road and is necessary to protect
the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient, and sustainable highway.
Location: County-Line Road south of Plainfield Road in the Village of Burr Ridge
Section: 16-W1921-00-DR
County Board District(s): 17
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Fiscal Impact: $90,200.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds to furnish all labor, materials and equipment required for an emergency
repair of the Burr Ridge Overflow Inlet Breach on County Line Road, just south of Plainfield Road in the
Village of Burr Ridge. This appropriation, as proposed includes the placement of sandbags to create a
barrier that prevents additional water flow that would cause further damage and lowering of the lake in
Burr Ridge, sheet piling, excavating alongside the structure and removing a section inside the structure at
the lateral pipe to identify the extent of the undermining, filling the voids with concrete, backfilling the
sheet pile, new sidewalk, boulder stones, restoration, traffic control and protection and other appurtenant
work as required.

Page 26 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

16-4400
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: CPS Chicago Parking, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Parking Management Services
Contract Value: $2,046,166.00
Contract period: 12/1/2016 - 11/30/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $682,055.36, FY2018 $682,055.36, FY2019
$682,055.28
Accounts: 499 - 260
Contract Number(s): 1545-15207
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct and
indirect participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Bids were solicited for management services at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Parking Facility. Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. CPS Chicago Parking, LLC was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
Based on the anticipated revenue that will be generated from parking fees and the fixed expenditures, this
contract is projected to be revenue generating.

Page 27 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-4730
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Atlas & Associates, Inc., Country Club Hills, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Refrigerants
Contract Value: $309,877.50
Contract period: 10/1/2016 - 9/30/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $12,911.56; FY 2017 $154,938.72; FY2018
$142,027.22
Accounts: 200-333
Contract Number(s): 1645-15297
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Bids were solicited for refrigerants for Countywide cooling systems. Competitive bidding
procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Atlas & Associates
was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
16-4781
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Fund Transfer
Reason: to replenish account 450
From Account(s): 200-330, $10,000.00; 200-444, $20,000.00; 200-490, $10,000.00; 200-638,
$40,000.00; 200-461, $8,561.00
Page 28 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

To Account(s): 200-450
Total Amount of Transfer: $88,561.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
It became apparent on 8/10/2016 that this account would need an infusion of funds. The balance in the
account on that date was a negative $185,643.00. The balance on 7/18/2016 was a negative $537,970.00.
The negative dollar amounts do not reflect an overage in actual expenditures, but pre-encumbrances.
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The accounts were chosen because of the amount of unencumbered funds in each.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
These accounts were chosen because of the unobligated amounts in the accounts listed above.
16-4782
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Garland/DBS, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Roofing Supplies and Services
Contract Value: $300,000.00
Contract period: 9/26/2016 - 9/25/2017, with (3), one year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $150,000.00; FY 2017 $150,000.00
Page 29 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Accounts: 200-450
Contract Number(s): 1685-15344
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management requests authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract for roofing supplies and services, waterproofing and related
products and services.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code. Garland/DBS, Inc. was previously awarded a contract through an Invitation for Bids
(IFB) process through U.S. Communities, a national government purchasing cooperative sponsored by
the National Association of Counties (NACo) and the National Institute of Government Purchasing
(NIGP), and in cooperation with Cobb County, Georgia. Cook County wishes to leverage this
procurement effort.

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE
16-5052
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a First Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: Secretary of State of Illinois
Location: 69 West Washington Street, Suite 1220
Term/Extension Period: 11/1/2016 - 10/31/2021
Space Occupied: 10,119 Square feet
Monthly Rent: Annual Base Rent
$205,415.70

Monthly Base Rent
$17,117.98
Page 30 of 71

PSF
$20.30

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Operating Expenses: In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall continue to pay its proportionate share of
operating expenses for the building, currently about $9.26 per square foot or $93,702.00 annually.
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: No, Electricity separately metered and paid by Tenant
Summary: The Secretary of State’s Office will continue to utilize the space for its Securities Division.
The proposed rental rate is within the range of current market rates.
16-5053
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a First Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: Secretary of State of Illinois
Location: 69 West Washington Street, Suite 1240
Term/Extension Period: 11/1/2016 - 10/31/2021
Space Occupied: 7,730 Square feet
Monthly Rent: Annual Base Rent
$156,918.96

Monthly Base Rent
$13,076.58

PSF
$20.30

Operating Expenses: In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall continue to pay its proportionate share of
operating expenses for the building, currently about $9.26 per square foot or $71,580.00 annually
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: N/A
Page 31 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: No, Electricity separately metered and paid by Tenant
Summary: The Secretary of State’s Office will continue to utilize the space for its Business Services
Division. The proposed rental rate is within the range of current market rates.
16-5054
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a Third Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: RML Health Providers Limited Partnership, dba RML Specialty Hospital
Location: 5601 South County Line Road, Hinsdale, Illinois 60521
Term/Extension Period: The term will be extended for five years, to expire 5/31/2022
Space Occupied: 149,285 Square feet
Monthly Rent: 6/1/2017- 5/31/2018 -Monthly $111,981.17 / Annually $1,343,774.00
Operating Expenses: In addition to the base rent, the Tenant pays directly all costs of maintaining and
operating the facility and the grounds.
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: Tenant shall have the option to renew the lease for six five year renewal periods, on
the same terms and conditions.
Escalation: Base rent is increased each year by an amount equal to the increase in the CPI, with a
minimum increase of 3% and a maximum increase of 4%, which protects the Landlord from changes in
the marketplace. For the 5th and 6th option periods, the rent will adjust to fair market rent.
Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: No, Tenant pays for all utilities

Page 32 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: On 7/24/2007, pursuant to Public Act 094-1050 and Resolution of the Board of
Commissioners approved 6/19/2007, the County of Cook succeeded to the interests of the Suburban
Tuberculosis District in properties, including property at 5601 South County Line Road, Hinsdale,
Illinois. This property is leased to RML Health Providers Limited Partnership, (dba) RML Specialty
Hospital, under a lease dated 4/18/1997 and previously amended 3/2/2010.
The current lease term expires 5/31/2017. The Tenant has provided its written notice of their intent to
exercise their right and option to further extend the term for five years, with three remaining five-year
options to renew. In order to provide flexibility in financing major capital improvements to the facility
the Tenant has requested that the lease be amended to allow additional options to renew.
RML Specialty Hospital will continue to utilize the premises for treatment of long term complex hospital
patients who are critically and chronically ill. The medical offices located within the subject property
will continue to be used by RML Specialty Hospital staff exclusively for treatment of those patients
confined to the hospital and for no other purpose.
This item has been submitted to the CCHHS Board for approval at its next available meeting.
Approval is recommended.
16-5055
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a Fifth Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Eighteenth Street LLC, Michael Adams and Armando Gonzales
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 5912 W. Cermak Road, Cicero, Illinois 60804
Term/Extension Period: 11/1/2016 - 10/31/2017
Space Occupied: 8,500 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $14,175.80 per month / $170,109.60 annually
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item will commit Fiscal Year 2016 and 2017 funds
Accounts: 893-660 Account
Option to Renew: N/A
Page 33 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Termination: 90 days prior written notice by Tenant
Utilities Included: No
Summary: The Premises is located in Cook County District #16 in the building known as the Cicero
Health Center, at 5912 W. Cermak Road, Cicero, and is currently occupied by the Ambulatory &
Community Health Network (ACHN) and the Cook County Department of Public Health (DPH).
On 6/8/2016, this Board approved a proposed acquisition of certain real estate to allow for the expansion
of the Health Center. However, due to unsatisfactory matters discovered during the due diligence period
which could not be resolved, the Purchase Contract was terminated.
This Fifth Amendment extends the term of the Lease for one (1) year to allow ACHN and DPH to
continue offering a variety of vital health services to the community of west suburban Cook County
without interruption while continuing to work with the Department of Real Estate Management to locate
a site for an expanded clinic to better serve its clients.
The Ambulatory & Community Health Network will continue to utilize the premises for a primary health
care clinic. The clinic also houses a Women, Infant and Child (WIC) program operated by the Cook
County Department of Public Health.
This item has been submitted to the CCHHS Board for approval at its next available meeting.
16-5056
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Summary: Requesting permission to discuss with the Asset Management Committee in executive
session the possible acquisition of property to be utilized by CCHHS for a CCHHS Regional Outpatient
Center.
This request for a closed meeting is made pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(6).

Page 34 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

16-5097
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE
CHICAGO METROPOLITAN AGENCY FOR PLANNING
WHEREAS, the County of Cook (“the County”) has applied for staff assistance services through the
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (“CMAP”), for a plan to catalyze job creation and economic
prosperity in the County’s south suburbs by redefining and strengthening their role in the regional
economy; and
WHEREAS, the County’s request for such assistance has been recommended by CMAP as a priority
project; and
WHEREAS, CMAP has adopted the GO TO 2040 Plan as the long-range regional comprehensive plan
for the seven-county Chicago region, encompassing Cook, DuPage, Kane, Kendall. Lake, McHenry and
Will counties, and is providing staff assistance as a means of advancing the plan’s implementation; and
WHEREAS, the County and CMAP have agreed on the contents of an Intergovernmental Agreement
(“IGA”) that will guide staff assistance services to be provided by CMAP;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY OF COOK:
Section 1:

The (governing body) supports this project to develop a plan for Cook County’s south
suburbs.

Section 2:

the (governing body) accepts the offer of staff assistance services by CMAP and
recognizes that these services are provided for the purpose of advancing the
implementation of GO TO 2040.

Section 3:

the (governing body) authorizes staff as designated by the (TBD) to finalize and execute
an IGA with an attached Scope of Services.

Section 4:

the (governing body) recognizes that provisions that govern the administration of staff
assistance services, and, if necessary, the discontinuance of such services, are included
in the IGA.

Section 5:

This resolution shall be effective as of the date of its adoption.

Page 35 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby do what you are suggesting or endorsing with this resolution.

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
16-4798
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Planning and Development
Vendor: Cotter Consulting, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Management Professional Services
Original Contract Period: 12/15/2014 - 12/14/2016, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 12/15/2016 - 12/14/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $140,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/12/2014, $140,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $250,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: N/A - Grant Funded
Accounts: (7721501-580170 for $100,000.00; 7721601-580170 for $75,000.00; and 9101401-580170
for $75,000.00)
Contract Number(s): 1455-13763A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Page 36 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: This increase and first of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department
of Planning and Development to continue to receive construction management services for projects
supported by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block
Grants (CDBG), CDBG - Disaster Recovery (CDBG - DR), HOME Investment Partnership (HOME), the
Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) and any other Housing or Capital Improvement program that
the County should partake in. The aforementioned funds are restricted to the use in Suburban Cook
County and do not include the City of Chicago.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Cotter Consulting, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
16-4799
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Planning and Development
Vendor: RM Chin & Associates Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Management Professional Services
Original Contract Period: 12/15/2014 - 12/14/2016, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 12/15/2016 - 12/14/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $140,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/12/2014 $140,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $375,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: NA - Grant Funded
Accounts: 7721501-580170 for $100,000.00; 7721601-580170 for $50,000.00; 587-520830 for
$125,000.00; and 9101401-580170 for $100,000.00
Contract Number(s): 1455-13763B

Page 37 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department
of Planning and Development to continue to receive construction management services for projects
supported by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Block
Grants (CDBG), CDBG - Disaster Recovery (CDBG - DR), HOME Investment Partnership (HOME), the
Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) and any other Housing or Capital Improvement program that
the County should partake in. The aforementioned funds are restricted to the use in Suburban Cook
County and do not include the City of Chicago.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. RM Chin, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
16-4915
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
7555 N CALDWELL LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: 7555 N Caldwell LLC
Address: 7555 N Caldwell Avenue, Niles, Illinois 60714
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Niles
Cook County District: 13
Permanent Index Number: (2) PINs: 10-30-401-007-0000; 10-30-401-013-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 2016-39R
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 17 months at the time of application to BED
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
TEERM (TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION (Vacant
for more than 12 months but less than 24 months - No Purchase for Value) Justification: Yes
Page 38 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 5 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 74 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 74 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20
Proposed use of property: Industrial-Manufacturing of medical supplies
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial/commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property as abandoned for purpose of the Class 6b TEERM (TEMPORARY
EMERGENY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment according to the TEERM definition, abandonment is defined as
a facility being vacant over 12 months but less than 24 months with no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, in such instances, the County may determine that special circumstances exist under
TEERM; thus qualifying the property as abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b TEERM requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as
abandoned for the purpose of the Class 6b TEERM; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b TEERM is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

Page 39 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b TEERM; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
16-5114
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

RNR LITHOGRAPHER INC. CLASS 6B SUSTAINABLE EMERGENCY RELIEF (SER)
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the following
information:
Applicant: RNR Lithographer Inc.
Address: 8115 W. Grand Avenue, River Grove, Illinois 60171
Length of time at current location: 58 Years
Length of time property under same ownership: 58years
Is there evidence supporting 10 years of the same ownership and/or occupancy (tenancy): Yes
Age of the Property (Building):
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Leyden
Cook County District: 9th
Permanent Index Number(s): 12-26-417-003-0000 and 12-26-417-004-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of River grove Resolution No. 2014-R-20
Evidence of Economic Hardship: Yes
Number of blighting factors associated with the property: Three (3): Dilapidation; Obsolescence and
Deterioration
Has justification for the Class 6b SER program been provided?: Yes
Page 40 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Estimated # of jobs created by this project: None
Estimated # of jobs retained at this location: four (4) full-time, four (4) part-time
Estimated # of employees in Cook County: Not applicable
Estimated # of construction jobs: None
Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing: RNR Lithographer Inc. d/b/a as Manor Press.
Digital Printing and Printing Press Company
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided:
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) that provides an applicant a reduction in the
assessment level for a long-term existing industrial enterprise that meets the qualifications of the SER
program ; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment requires that an applicant under the
Class 6b SER program provide evidence justifying their participation in the subject program; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property for the
purpose of the Class 6bSER Program; and
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of the application for the Class 6b SER Program;
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of economic
hardship to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development supporting a determination that
participation in the Class 6b SER Program is necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue its
operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and without the Class 6b SER the industrial
enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming
vacant and unused; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County Property Tax Incentive for the same
property; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for the industrial enterprise to
maintain is operations on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of
this property to meet the definition of the Class 6b SER program; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that the application is approved by the Cook County Assessor. Properties receiving Class
6b SER will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the
12th year; and
Page 41 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

WHEREAS, the applicant understand that the Class 6b SER classification is not renewable and also the
applicant vacates the specific real estate while the Class 6b SER is in place the designation will terminate
and the assessment level will immediately revert back to the 25% assessment level; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
meets the requirements of the Class 6bSER Program; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
16-5118
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
1221 LANDMEIER, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: 1221 Landmeier, LLC
Address: 1221 Landmeier Road, Elk Grove, Illinois 60007
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Elk Grove
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 08-27-400-083-0000 and 08-27-400-084-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Elk Grove Resolution No. 9-15
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: under 24 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: five (5) - 15full-time, # part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: # full-time, TBD part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 31 full-time, eight (8) part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20-30 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution
Page 42 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

Page 43 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5120
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and GREGG GOSLIN, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RYAN HUNT, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Ryan Hunt, LLC
Address: 1200 S. Willis Avenue, Wheeling, Illinois 60090
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Wheeling
Cook County District: 14
Permanent Index Number: 03-14-102-029-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Wheeling Resolution No. 16-43
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 11 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project:
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location:

15 full-time
27 full-time

Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: not applicable
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20-30 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Manufacturing, warehousing and distribution of athletic uniforms.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
Page 44 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

Page 45 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
16-5130
Presented by: ERNEST BROWN, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Homeland Security & Emergency Management
Grantee: Homeland Security & Emergency Management
Grantor: Federal Emergency Management Agency
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: Flood mitigation assistance
Grant Amount: $1,677,592.19
Grant Period: 5/29/2015 - 10/30/2018
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: FEMA’s Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) grant aims to reduce or eliminate claims under
the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). FMA provides funding to states, territories,
federally-recognized tribes and local communities for projects and planning that reduces or eliminates
long-term risk of flood damage to structures insured under the NFIP. Specifically, with these grant funds,
Cook County will acquire NFIP insured property with a high likelihood of flooding. FMA funding is also
available for management costs. Funding is appropriated by Congress annually.

Page 46 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

16-4950
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Human Resources
Vendor: Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Inc. Tarrytown, New York
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend the contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Reagents and Consumables
Original Contract Period: 4/22/2013 - 4/21/2015 with two (2) one year (1) year renewal options.
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/22/2016 - 12/21/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $126,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/30/2013, $64,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/1/2014, $32,000.00; 4/28/2015,
$30,000.00, 4/22/2015 - 4/21/2016
This Increase Requested: $0.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $29,576.00
Accounts: 032-360
Contract Number(s): 13-45-005
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver.
Summary: Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics is responsible for providing the reagents and consumables
necessary for conducting drug tests on prospective and current Cook County employees. This request for
an amendment to extend the contract for an additional 8 months is to ensure the continuity of drug testing
services. The Bureau of Human Resources is currently working with the Office of the Chief Procurement
Officer to discuss long term procurement options for these services.
Page 47 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
16-5131
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 have been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union
Local 73 (SEIU Local 73); representing employees in Animal Control, Zoning Board of Appeals,
Comptroller, Procurement, Department of Highways, Environmental Control, Law Library, Building &
Zoning, Facilities Management, Dept. of Public Health, Medical Examiner and Office Technology; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases previously approved are reflected in the
Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between the County of
Cook and SEIU Local 73; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreements between the County of Cook and SEIU Local 73 as
provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
16-5140
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP
270) representing the Stroger Hospital Sergeants; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases were previously approved are reflected in
the Salary Schedules included in this Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County
of Cook and MAP 270; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook and MAP 270 as provided by
the Bureau of Human Resources.
Page 48 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5141
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COUPE PREVAILING RATE RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the County is obligated to pay the prevailing rate for these categories of employees
pursuant to the state statute and the collective bargaining agreement between the County of Cook and the
Union(s); and
WHEREAS, the unions representing this category of employees have been properly certified that the
below-listed rates are the prevailing rates for the effective date(s) set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill creates Accounts 490-115 499-115 899-115 for
Appropriation Adjustments for the Corporate, Public Safety and Health Funds if necessary; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the prevailing wages and salaries of the following
positions be fixed as follows:
Job Code
2307
2310
2359

Title Represented
Boilermaker/Blacksmith
Boilermaker/Welder
Sign Painter (Shopman)

Wage Rate
$45.43
$45.43
$36.72

Effective Date
6/30/16
6/30/16
1/1/16

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources and the Cook
County Comptroller are hereby authorized to implement the prevailing rates and salary adjustments
pursuant to state statute.
16-5142
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 have been negotiated between the County of Cook and the American Federation of State
County and Municipal Employees 1111, 1178 and 1276 (AFSCME 1111, 1178, & 1276) representing
employees in the Cook County Health Facilities; and

Page 49 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases previously approved are reflected in the
Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between the County of
Cook and AFSCME 1111, 1178, 1276; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreements between the County of Cook and AFSCME 1111, 1178,
1276 as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
16-5143
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING AN INTEREST ARBITRATION AWARD
WHEREAS, the County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and the Teamsters Local 700 (representing
twenty-three (23) Sheriff Fugitive Unit Investigators II) entered into a Compulsory Interest Arbitration
under the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1, et seq.); and
WHEREAS, an Interest Arbitration Award has been issued concerning unresolved salary issues and
healthcare covering the period of December 1, 2012 and through November 30, 2017.
WHEREAS, this Award including the Economic package for wages and healthcare as outlined below shall
be submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for consideration; and
(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 1.00%
(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.25%
(f) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 2.00%

Page 50 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX
Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

12/1/15
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate increase
(.50 percent increase on 12/1/15 and .50 percent
increase on 12/1/16)

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Interest Arbitration Award and Economic package including wage increases and healthcare as
provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Award is approved and that the Chief of the Bureau of Human
Resources and the Cook County Comptroller are hereby authorized to implement the wage adjustments as
indicated in the Award.

Page 51 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5145
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Cook County Pharmacy Association,
Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 200
(RWDSW Local 200) representing two hundred and ten (210) Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians;
and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases were previously approved are reflected in
the Salary Schedules included in this Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County of
Cook and RWDSW Local 200; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook and RWDSU Local 200 as
provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
16-5146
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
(FOP) representing the Oak Forest Health Facilities Police Officers; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases were previously approved are reflected in
the Salary Schedules included in this Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County of
Cook and the FOP; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook and the FOP as provided by
the Bureau of Human Resources.
Page 52 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5202
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: HR Activity Reports for Pay Periods 14, 15, and 16
Report Period: PP14 6/26 - 7/9/2016, PP15 7/10 - 7/23/2016, PP16 - 7/24 - 8/6/2016
Summary: Grades 17 -24 only

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
16-4223
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Adapt Telephony Services, LLC, Oak Brook, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System and accompanying software licenses
Current Contract Period: 12/4/2013 - 12/3/2019
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $4,193,835.79
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/4/2013 - $4,193,835.79
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $189,941.40
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2016: $189,941.40
Page 53 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Accounts: 1500909502-570
Contract Number(s): 13-18-078
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: In December, 2013, this Board approved Contract No. 13-18-078 with Adapt Telephony
Services to deploy the current Interactive Voice Response (“IVR”) system that provides automated
answering and routing services for multiple County agencies and approximately four million callers per
day. The Bureau of Technology (“BOT”) now requests that this Board approve an amendment to this
contract in order to add IVR functionality to the BOT Service Desk.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. Adapt Telephony Services, LLC. was selected based on established
evaluation criteria.
16-5059
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Other Part(ies): South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association, Hazel Crest, Illinois
Request: Amendment
Goods or Services: An indefeasible right of use to eight dark fiber optic cable strands along the I-57
corridor.
Agreement Number: N/A
Agreement Period: 4/10/2014 - 4/9/2034
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Summary: Under the current intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) with the South Suburban Mayors
and Managers Association (“SSMMA”), Cook County owns a 20-year indefeasible right of use (“IRU”)
to eight strands of dark fiber optic cable running along the I-57 corridor. These fibers enable the
County’s Oak Forest campus and Markham courthouse to connect to the County’s high-capacity fiber
Page 54 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

backbone. SSMMA is additionally responsible for maintenance and repairs to the fiber.
The Bureau of Technology now seeks approval of a technical amendment to the IGA allowing SSMMA
to exercise its right to assign its broadband assets to the Chicago-Southland Fiber Network (“CSFN”), a
not for profit corporation founded by SSMMA and funded by the Jobs First grant from the State of
Illinois to support the assets of the southland’s fiber optic network.
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office has approved this IGA amendment as to form.
16-5060
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Securus Technologies, Inc., Dallas, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Telephone services for Cook County jails and detention centers
Current Contract Period: 9/15/2008 - 9/15/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 9/16/2016 - 3/15/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: N/A
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/20/2007
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/1/2011 (amendment to scope); 12/18/2012, 9/15/2013 12/15/2014; 4/9/2014, 12/16/2014 - 12/15/15; 9/9/2015, 12/16/2015 - 9/15/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact:

N/A

Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 08-45-256
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
Page 55 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Technology respectfully requests that this Board approve an extension to
Contract No. 08-45-256 with Securus Technology, Inc. to provide telecommunications services to
detainees at Cook County confinement facilities while a corresponding Request for Proposal (“RFP”)
process is completed.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Securus Technologies, Inc. was awarded based on established evaluation
criteria.
16-5066
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Globetrotters Engineering Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Engineering and design services for the Phase IV of Broadband Program, fiber
optic work
Current Contract Period: 1/15/2014 - 12/31/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 1/1/2017 - 12/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $511,446.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/15/2014, $408,646.00, 1/15/2014 - 12/31/2015
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/5/2015, $102,800.00, 1/1/2016 12/31/2016
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact:

N/A

Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 1388-13279

Page 56 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Technology requests approval of an extension to Contract No. 1388-13279
with Globetrotters Engineering Corporation, Chicago, Illinois. Construction delays caused by permitting
and other jurisdictional issues require extension of the original term. The contract scope covers detailed
design engineering and fiber testing to several County Anchor institutions including: Provident Hospital
(Additional Design and Fiber Testing); CCAB (Fiber Testing); County Administration Building 69 W
Washington (additional design and fiber testing); Markham Courthouse (fiber design and fiber testing);
Oak Forest Health Clinic (fiber design & fiber testing); and Maywood Court House (fiber design & fiber
Testing).
This contract was awarded as a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the
Cook County Procurement Code. Globetrotter was previously awarded a contract thought a Request for
Proposals (RFP) process by the State of Illinois.
16-5094
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Request: Refer to the Committee on Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 2nd and 3rd quarters of 2016
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System.

Page 57 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-5098
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Other Part(ies): South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association, Hazel Crest, Illinois
Request: Approval of an intergovernmental agreement
Goods or Services: Broadband maintenance, monitoring, and other related services
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 10/1/2016 - 4/9/2034
Fiscal Impact: $1,399,845.00
Accounts: 490-441
Summary: The Bureau of Technology respectfully requests Board approval of an intergovernmental
agreement (“IGA”) with the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association (“SSMMA”) for
broadband maintenance, monitoring, and other related services.
As an owner and operator of public broadband infrastructure, the County requires expertise normally
developed for internal operations purposes by broadband providers. SSMMA possesses a sophisticated
public broadband program and currently provides the County with an indefeasible right of use (“IRU”) to
broadband assets integral to the County Wide Area Network (“WAN”). SSMMA is therefore in a unique
position to provide the County with access to expertise and services that the County would otherwise
have to develop at great cost.
The proposed IGA provides access to such services on an as-needed basis and is coterminous with the
existing IRU IGA.

Page 58 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION

16-4389
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: FYI and Associates Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Janitorial Services
Original Contract Period: 6/1/2012 - 5/31/2014, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/1/2016 - 2/28/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $174,326.39
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/8/2012, $89,879.04
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/10/2015, $40,618.60, 6/1/2015-5/31/2016; 6/8/2016,
$4,782.00, 6/1/2016-8/31/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/10/2014, $39,046.75,
6/1/2014-5/31/2015
This Increase Requested: $21,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $10,500.00, FY 2017 $10,500.00, paid with probation fees collected
from offenders.
Accounts: 532-235
Contract Number(s): 12-53-037
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct and
partial MWBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 59 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: FYI & Associates, Inc. provides janitorial services for leased office space at 1644 West
Walnut Street, Chicago, occupied by the Circuit Court’s Adult Probation Department. This request is to
extend and increase the vendor’s current Cook County contract No.12-53-037 for six (6) months through
2/28/2017, and increase the contract amount by $21,000.00.
The requested extension and increase would allow a continuation of services while a rebid process is
completed. This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. FYI and Associates was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUVENILE PROBATION AND COURT SERVICES
16-2798
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Aunt Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc., Olympia Fields, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase the contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Evening Reporting Center Programs and Pre-Trial Services
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2013 - 9/30/2016
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 10/1/2016 - 9/30/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $5,192,160.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/31/2013, $5,192,160.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,768,740.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $230,600.00, FY 2017 $1,538,140.00
Accounts: 326-298
Contract Number(s): 13-23-001

Page 60 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full M/WBE
Waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: On 9/11/2013, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved a three-year contract
with Aunt Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc. to manage Juvenile Probation and Court Services
Department’s Evening Reporting Centers Program and Pre-Trial Services. These services are key
components of the Circuit Court’s Juvenile Detention Alternative Initiatives. This proposed amendment
exercises the first of the two (2) one-year renewal options available in contract #13-23-001 with Aunt
Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc.
The Evening Reporting Centers Program combines community-based alternative detention sites with
electronic monitoring. Judges order selected, nonviolent minors, both male and female, who would
otherwise qualify for detention in the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) to one
of six Centers. The minors are ordered to the program for up to 21 days. The Centers provide minors with
highly structured and well supervised group activities during high risk periods. The program’s goal is to
reduce the likelihood of re-arrest and to allow minors to continue to attend school and remain at home.
Juveniles are supervised five days per week from 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. in five Chicago locations and one
suburban location, in the south suburbs. Staff members offer minors educational activities, recreational
programming and life development workshops. Also, Center staff teach social/life skills to reinforce
pro-social behaviors and provide tutoring support for school work. The Centers provide transportation for
the minors to and from the minor’s home. In calendar 2015, 1,068 minors were referred to the Centers.
In addition to the Evening Reporting Centers Program, the contract provides for pretrial services for youth,
ages 10-18, who have pending juvenile charges. Directed by judicial order, pretrial services are provided
seven days a week and include group therapy, home visitation, curfew, and school attendance monitoring,
and referrals to services in the community. Services are coordinated by four full-time case managers, who
conduct thorough assessments of the adolescent and family situations and develop responsive case plans.
On average approximately 50 juveniles participate in the program from 21 to 30 days. In calendar 2015,
342 minors were referred for pretrial services.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. Aunt Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc. was selected based on established
evaluation criteria.

Page 61 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
16-2573

Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Department of Corrections
Vendor: Progressive Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Detainee Tennis Shoes
Original Contract Period: 11/26/2014 - 11/25/2016, with two (2), one (1) year renewals
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 11/26/2016 - 11/25/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $644,490.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/19/2014, $644,490.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $322,245.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016: $20,000.00;

FY 2017: $302,245.00

Accounts: 239-320
Contract Number(s): 1411-13972
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MWBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 62 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: The Cook County Department of Corrections is requesting authorization for the Chief
Procurement Officer to increase and exercise the first of two (2), one (1) year renewal options for
Contract No. 1411-13972 with Progressive Industries, Inc., to purchase detainee tennis shoes.
This contract was awarded through the Competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Progressive Industries, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
16-4261
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Corrections
Vendor: A Safe Haven LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase
Good(s) or Service(s): Alternative Temporary Housing
Original Contract Period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2017 with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $4,774,200.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/21/2014, $4,774,200.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,600,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016- $600,000.00, FY 2017- $1,000,000.00
Accounts: 499-298
Contract Number(s): 1488-13689
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 63 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Summary: The Department of Corrections is requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to increase the contract for an Alternative Temporary Housing Program for participants court
ordered to Electronic Monitoring, who have no place to stay. Currently, there is an average of
approximately 110 detainees that have been court ordered to Electronic Monitoring with no place to stay.
This increase will allow services to continue at the current level through May 2017.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. A Safe Haven, LLC, was selected based on established evaluation criteria.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES
16-4836
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Other Part(ies): Sheriff of Kendall County, Yorkville, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Sheriff of Kendall
County to provide boarding and lodging to detainees from the Cook County Department of Corrections at
a rate of $60.00 per day, per detainee, plus medical expenses. The Intergovernmental Agreement will be
utilized to address security and safety concerns to help manage problematic detainees that assault other
inmates, have protective concerns, and most importantly have assaulted our staff by physical harm or
projecting fluids. The average number of detainees to be housed is approximately 20.
Goods or Services: The Sheriff of Kendall County to provide boarding and lodging to detainees from
the Cook County Department of Corrections at a rate of $60.00 per day, per detainee, plus medical
expenses.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: This Agreement shall become effective upon the date of acceptance and signature
by all the parties. Term of this Agreement shall be two (2) years from said date of acceptance. This
Agreement may, provided a need continues to exist, be renewed for a period not to exceed two (2) years
for each renewal.
Fiscal Impact: $475,000.00
Accounts: 239-231
Summary: The Sheriff of Kendall County to provide boarding and lodging to detainees from the Cook
County Department of Corrections at a rate of $60.00 per day, per detainee, plus medical.
Page 64 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-4860
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff's Office
Vendor: Hinshaw & Culbertson, LLP, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Litigation Consulting Services.
Original Contract Period: 9/1/2014 - 8/31/2015, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/1/2016 - 8/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $145,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 10/29/2014, $145,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 12/14/2015, 9/1/2015 - 8/31/2016
This Increase Requested: $75,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $20,000.00, FY 2017 $55,000.00
Accounts: 214-263
Contract Number(s): 1411-13673
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and final renewal option will allow the Cook County Sheriff’s Office to
continue to receive litigation consulting services from Hinshaw and Culbertson, LLP (“Firm”).

Page 65 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

The Firm is retained to consult and assist the Cook County Sheriff’s Office in connection with
maintaining substantial compliance with the Shakman Supplemental Relief Order entered in the Shakman
litigation, 69-CV-2145, pending before the Federal Court in the Northern District of Illinois. Specifically,
the Firm will provide consultation services in political discrimination cases currently pending in the
Northern District of Illinois arising specifically out of a Post-Supplemental Relief Order (“Post-SRO”)
Shakman claim. Due to the relatedness of the claims and the attorneys involved, it is necessary that
counsel familiar with all aspects of Shakman are involved in the litigation to ensure the Shakman dismissal
remains undisturbed. In addition, the Firm provides consultation on matters regarding amendments to the
Sheriff Employment Action Manual, Shakman exempt employees, the exempt list and positions and
related employment litigation involving allegations of political or first amendment retaliation or
violations.
This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
16-4890
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Clarity Partners, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): CLEARNET Multi-Agency Criminal Records Management System
Contract Value: $1,070,202.00
Contract period: 10/1/2016-9/30/2019 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $300,000.00, FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018
$270,202.00
Accounts: 1521709302-579
Contract Number(s): 1611-15572
Concurrence(s):
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology concurs
Summary: The Cook County Sheriff’s Office respectfully requests the approval to enter into a contract
with Clarity Partners, LLC of Chicago, Illinois. Clarity Partners, LLC is contracted with the Chicago
Page 66 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Police Department to develop and maintain a new records management system. The Cook County
Sheriff’s Office has committed to partner with Chicago Police Department as the system’s first external
user to establish a multi-agency computerized police records system. Clarity is currently engaged in
software development and database management with the Chicago Police Department. These require
continuity of personnel for successful completion. As a partner in law enforcement operations, the Cook
County Sheriff’s Office is dedicated to violence reduction, and a records management system is a crucial
part of ensuring a successful regional policing model.
This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
16-5179
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County

PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Travis Richardson
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Sheriff’s Merit Board
Effective date: 9/14/2016
Expiration date: Third Monday in March, 2020, or until a successor is appointed.
Summary: The appointment of Mr. Travis Richardson is to serve as a member of the Cook County
Sheriff’s Merit Board effective immediately. Mr. Richardson will replace Mr. Brian Riordan. Mr.
Richardson’s term will expire on the Third Monday in March, 2020, Pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-7002.

Page 67 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER

16-4473
Presented by: MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Treasurer
Vendor: JJ Collins Sons, Inc., Woodridge, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Tax Bill Printing and Processing Services
Original Contract Period: 9/11/2013 - 9/10/2015, with two (2), one (1)-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/11/2016 - 9/10/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,326,084.26
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/11/2013, $875,642.60
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 11/18/2015; $450,441.26; 9/11/2015 - 9/10/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $450,441.66
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $450,441.66
Accounts: 534-240
Contract Number(s): 1345-12444
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial M/WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Treasurer’s
Office to continue to receive printing of tax bill paper, brochures, envelopes, folding and inserting for
billing and collection of property taxes.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. JJ Collins was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
Page 68 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
VETERANS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
16-4655 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Veteran’s Preference and Outreach
___________
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
16-1983 PROPOSED ORDINANCE An Ordinance Governing the Safe Disposal of Pharmaceuticals
16-2289 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An amendment to the Cook County Ethics
Ordinance
___________
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2016
16-4643 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Tax Incentive Ordinance Amendment
___________
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
16-4477 PROPOSED RESOLUTION 3418 N Knox LLC 6B Property Tax Incentive Request
16-4490 PROPOSED RESOLUTION McCook 2012 LLC 6B Property Tax Incentive Request
16-4535 PROPOSED RESOLUTION 10 North Beach Avenue, LLC 6B Property Tax Incentive Request
16-4550 PROPOSED RESOLUTION U-Store-It 7B Property Tax Incentive Request
16-4552 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Michigan Cermak Indiana LLC 7B Property Tax Incentive Request
16-4643 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Tax Incentive Ordinance Amendment

___________
WORKFORCE, HOUSING & COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
16-4392 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Establishing The Cook County Health and
Page 69 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

Hospitals System’s Direct Access Program to Support a Healthy Cook County Workforce
___________
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
16-5221 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS regular meeting held on 7/13/2016.
16-5222 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS regular meeting held on 8/3/2016.
___________
FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
SUBROGATION RECOVERIES
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS

16-4685 REPORT Analysis of Revenues and Expenses Report Period Ending 07/31/2016
16-2549 REPORT CCHHS Monthly Report, September 2016
16-3327 PROPOSED CONTRACT W. W. Grainger, Inc., Lake Forest, Illinois
__________

ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 14, 2016
16-4748 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 16-24
16-4749 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 16-26

Page 70 of 71

 BOARD AGENDA
Board of Commissioners

September 14, 2016

16-4861 NEW APPLICATION FOR REFERRAL TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 5602
N. Fairview, Chicago Illinois
16-5154 NEW APPLICATION FOR REFERRAL TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 5833
Blackstone Ave, LaGrange Highlands, Illinois

Page 71 of 71

 