    

 
  

     
     

for 
. 

        
 

is




Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Workers' Compensation Committee

Tuesday, October 6, 2015 9:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Schneider, Vice Chair Arroyo, Commissioners Goslin and Moore (4)
Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Schneider asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.

There were no public speakers.

Your Committee has considered the following item:

15-0587

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/08/2015

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Vice Chair Arroyo, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairperson Schneider, Vice Chair Arroyo, Commissioners Goslin and (4)

Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)

1. Ronnie Rush vs. Forest Preserve District of Cook
County - Case No. 15 WC 21598

2. Joel Rosario vs. Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Third Party Lien Compromise

3. Edward Piwowarski vs. Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Case No. 14 WC 34072 Recommendation on
Arbitrator Decision

Commissioner Goslin seconded by Vice Chair Arroyo moved to concur with the recommendation of the
Legal Department. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Vice Chair Arroyo, Commissioners Goslin and Moore (4)
Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Vice Chair Arroyo, that this meeting be

adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Vice Chair Arroyo, Commissioners Goslin and Moore (4)
Absent: Commissioner Tobolski (1)
Respect?illy submitted,

    



Chairman eurclary

   

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 2 of 2

