STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 11, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.— at 160 North LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of State Panel; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; John Samolis, Member of the
State Panel; Albert Washington, Member of State Panel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon
Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel;
and staff.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 7, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the July 7, 2015, meeting. Member Washington moved to
approve the minutes. Member Samolis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized the highlights.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case Nos. S-CA-13-197 and S-CB-09-047
City of Park Ridge/International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150

Chairman Hartnett called the case. The Board heard oral argument, recorded by a court reporter. At the conclusion
of the parties' arguments, Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to go into executive
session to discuss the evidence presented in the case, pursuant to Section 2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS 120 (2008). Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Samolis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Chairman Hartnett made a motion to hold the case over until the next meeting, for a decision. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Case No. S-CA-15-095
James Young/Village of University Park

Chairman Hartnett called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the case to the Board. General
Counsel Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued an Order Holding Case in Abeyance (Abeyance Order) on
May 29, 2015. The Charging Party filed an appeal. After her presentation General Counsel Nelson recommended that
the Board affirm the Executive Director’s Abeyance Order. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the
Executive Director’s Order Holding Case in Abeyance. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington moved to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of September, 2015.

2

 