Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee - REVISED

Tuesday, October 6, 2015

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.

15-0591
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9-8-2015

15-0198
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning & Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Palos Park, Illinois
Request: approval to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
Goods or Services: to annex and provide municipal water and sewer service to certain Forest Preserve

 property located in unincorporated Cook County.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Twenty (20) years from the date of full execution.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 17
Summary: The Forest Preserves owns certain property on the south side of McCarthy Road (123rd Street)
east of Will-Cook Road that it is currently using for a police facility that it wishes to connect to the Village
of Palos Park’s water and sanitary sewer. The police facility is not located within the municipal
boundaries of the Village. The Village is willing to allow connection and provide water and sanitary
sewer service to the police facility and other Forest Preserve property located on Bell Road provided the
subject Forest Preserve Property is brought within the municipal boundaries of the Village.
Legislative History 9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

15-0458
(This item was deferred on September 8, 2015)
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Forest Preserve District Commissioner
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to Willow Building, Inc., Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a license

to utilize up to 30 parking spaces for overflow parking for an office building located at 1622
Willow Road, Suite 200, Northfield, IL 60093. Permission is now sought, upon satisfactory
completion of all due diligence and negotiation of any and all relevant provisions as determined
by the Preserves' legal department, to enter into and execute the License. The request is to utilize
spaces in #1 parking lot in Erickson Woods Grove, Northfield, IL. The requested spaces will be
utilized on an intermittent basis from 8:30 am until 6:30 pm, Monday through Friday for the term
of the lease. The Grantee is seeking use of the spaces to comply with Ordinance Number
03-1173 of the Village of Northfield requiring the Grantee to obtain a Special Use Permit from
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for the use of up to 30 parking spaces in Erickson
Woods’ parking lot.
Term: 10/1/2015 - 9/30/2025
License Fee:

$18,000. Total one-time upfront for the term of the License.

License Application Fee: $1,000 (paid by Grantee in November of 2014)
YELAR Fee: N/A
Page 2 of 4

 Total one-time upfront fee of $0 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: up to 30 parking spaces
Concurrence(s):
District(s): 13
Legislative History 7/21/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
9/8/15 Real Estate Committee deferred
9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners deferred

15-0466
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE TO VACATE A PORTION OF LONGWOOD AVENUE
WHEREAS, under the authority granted pursuant to 70 ILCS 810/8, the Board of Commissioners for the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois, after due investigation and consideration has determined
that the nature and extent of the public use and the public interest to be subserved is such as to warrant the
vacation of the street described in the following ordinance, which street is located within the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County, Illinois, and is not a part of any state of county highway.
THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners for the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County, Illinois, as follows:
1. That all that part of Longwood Avenue described as follows:
ALL THAT PART OF LONGWOOD AVENUE LYING SOUTH OF THE SOUTH RIGHT OF
WAY LINE OF 87TH STREET AND NORTH OF A LINE BEGINNING AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF LOT 1 IN BLOCK 3 IN NEW BEVERLY HILLS SUBDIVISION AND RUNNING
THENCE NORTHEASTERLY, PERPENDICULAR TO THE CENTERLINE OF LONGWOOD
AVENUE, TO THE NORTHEASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF LONGWOOD AVENUE,
ALL IN THE EAST HALF OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP
37 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY,
ILLINOIS.
As shown as shaded and indicated by the words "hereby vacated" on the plat hereto attached, which plat,
for greater certainty, is hereby made a part of this ordinance, be and the same is hereby vacated and
closed in as much as the same is no longer required for public use and the public interest will be subserved
by such vacation.
2. In case a municipality or public service corporation has installed any public utility in or under the part
Page 3 of 4

 of Longwood Avenue hereby vacated, an easement is hereby reserved for the continued use, repair and
maintenance of such utility by the respective municipality or public service corporation, including but
not limited to:
A. An easement of 33 feet on each side of the existing 18-inch sewer and the existing 8-inch
watermain is hereby reserved for the City of Chicago Department of Water Management for
ingress and egress for access to said sewer and watermain facilities and appurtenances for the
purpose of maintenance, relocation, replacement and repair.
B. An Easement of 15 feet each side of the existing 18-inch sewer is hereby reserved for the City of
Chicago Department of Water Management for the purpose of maintaining, relocating, replacing,
and repairing said sewer facilities and appurtenances.
C. An easement of 15 feet each side of the existing 8-inch watermain is reserved for the City of
Chicago Department of Water Management for the purpose of maintaining, relocating, replacing,
and repairing said watermain facilities and appurtenances.
D. No additional permanent structures shall be erected over said easements with the exception of
surface improvements such as trails, roads, and parking.
E. Existing surface sewer and water structures such as manhole lids and frames shall not be
covered, paved over, or otherwise blocked from access for maintenance, relocation, repair, and
investigation.
F. The Forest Preserve District of Cook County assumes any additional costs beyond normal
restoration for any physical improvements within said easements that might be damaged as a
result of sewer or water facilities maintenance, relocation, replacement and repair.
3. The Secretary of the Board, under corporate seal of the District, shall duly certify to a copy of this
ordinance and cause the same to be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County,
Illinois, within sixty days after its passage and approval.
District: 11
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History 9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

_____________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Murphy
Vice Chairman: Vacant
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 