Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
10:30 AM
Wednesday, July 19, 2017

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:
Absent:

Suffredin, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (15)
Fritchey and Butler (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Ray Reiss
Chicago Bed & Breakfast Assoc.
Dave Samber
The Polo Inn Bridgeport
Virginia Carstarphen Old Chicago Inn B&B
Thomas Zipprich
Stone Terrace Bed & Breakfast
Bruce Boyd
Lang House Bed & Breakfast
Cathy Hartmann
Chicago Bed & Breakfast Assoc.

17-4403
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/7/2017
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, to approve
17-4403. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Absent:

Suffredin, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (15)
Fritchey and Butler (2)

Page 1 of 7

 17-3303
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT CLASSES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter Chapter
74 - Taxation,
Article II - Real Property Taxation, Division 2 - Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-63 Assessment Classes of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
(1)

Class 1. Unimproved real estate.

(2)

Class 2. Real estate:
a. Used as a farm;

b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, a licensed bed and breakfast (as established under 50 ILCS
820/1 et.seq., the Illinois Bed and Breakfast Act) with six apartment units or less, or
residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a government subsidized housing project, if
required by statute to be assessed in the lowest assessment category;
c. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the entity is situated, and registered as a Bed & Breakfast with the
State of Illinois, shall be assessed as residential 2-12 or in the current assessment
classification if lower.
c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units
where the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or
d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division,
provided that:
1. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than
80 percent of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for
Single Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter "FMR schedule");
2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the current FMR
schedule;
3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the building shall
Page 2 of 7

 not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and
4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety
and health codes and requirements.
In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2
classification shall be revoked.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to accept as
substituted 17-3303. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Absent:

Suffredin, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (15)
Fritchey and Butler (2)

17-3303
PROPOSED SECOND SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT CLASSES
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
(1) Class 1. Unimproved real estate.
(2) Class 2. Real estate:
a. Used as a farm;
b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a
government subsidized housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest
assessment category;
c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where
the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or
d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division,
provided that:
1. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80
percent of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single
Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (hereinafter "FMR schedule");
Page 3 of 7

 2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the
current FMR schedule;
3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the
building shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and
4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and
health codes and requirements.
e. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the property is situated, or registered as a Bed & Breakfast with
the State of Illinois under the statute as established under 50 ILCS 820 /1 et. seq.,
the Illinois Bed and Breakfast Act, with six rentable units or less and with all said
units contained in one improvement where one of the units is owner occupied and
where the owner occupant is entitled to a Homeowner’s Exemption pursuant to the
(16) Class 10. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the property is situated, or registered as a Bed & Breakfast with the State of
Illinois under the statute as established under 50 ILCS 820 /1 et. seq., the Illinois Bed and Breakfast
Act, with six rentable units or less and with all said units contained in one improvement where none of
the units are owner occupied and a Homeowner’s Exemption pursuant to the Illinois Property Tax
Code, Chapter 35, Title 4, Article 15 shall be available if allowed by law.
Sec. 74-64. - Market value percentages.
The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Review shall review, assessments on real estate in the
various classes at the following percentages of market value:
(1) Class 1: Ten percent.
(2) Class 2: Ten percent.
(3) Class 3: Sixteen percent in tax year 2009, 13 percent in tax year 2010, ten percent in tax year
2011, and subsequent years.
(4) Class 4: Twenty-five Twenty percent.
(5) Class 5a: Twenty-five percent.
(6) Class 5b: Twenty-five percent.
(7) Class 6b: Ten percent for first ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the
incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.
(8) Class C: Industrial properties: Ten percent for first ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20
percent in year 12; commercial properties: ten percent for first ten) years, 15 percent in year
11 and 20 percent in year 12.
(9) Class 7a: Ten percent for first ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.
(10) Class 7b: Ten percent for first ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.
(11) Class 7c: Ten percent for first three years, 15 percent in year four and 20 percent in year five.
(12) Class 8: Ten percent for first ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the
incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.
Page 4 of 7

 (13) Class 9: Ten percent for an initial ten-year period, renewable upon application for additional
ten-year periods.
(14) Class S: Ten percent for the term of the Section 8 contract renewal under the mark up to market
option, as defined herein, and for any additional terms of renewal of the Section 8 contract
under the mark up to market option.
(15) Class L, renewable properties: Ten percent for first ten years and for any subsequent ten-year
renewal periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year
12; commercial properties: Ten percent for first ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent
in year 12.
(16) Class 10: Ten percent.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to recommend
for approval as substituted and amended 17-3303. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Absent:

Suffredin, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (15)
Fritchey and Butler (2)
17-3674

Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LUIS ARROYO JR, GREGG GOSLIN and DEBORAH
SIMS,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING LIMITATION OF UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM USAGE ON COUNTY
PROPERTY
WHEREAS, use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), including drones, has exponentially increased
and is becoming more common in both commercial and private contexts; and
WHEREAS, increased UAS use has given rise to emerging conflicts and challenges requiring
additional
guidance as to responsible and lawful operation thereof; and
WHEREAS, given their ability to carry and smuggle drugs, weapons or other contraband, UAS usage
is increasingly presenting safety concerns for the operations of jails and prisons nationally, including
Cook County Jail; and
WHEREAS, UAS can also be used to surreptitiously take photographs and video footage, which can
create a privacy, safety or security threat at other county property such as county courthouses and
health
system facilities;
Page 5 of 7

 NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter
58, Offenses and Miscellaneous Offenses, Article II, Offenses Involving Property Rights Sec. 58-48 of
the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 58-48. Limitation of Unmanned Aerial System Usage on County Property.
(a) The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agency shall mean any County agency that is the authorized custodian of County property.
Unmanned Aerial System or UAS shall mean an unmanned aerial vehicle or drone that is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within the aircraft.
Property shall mean any land, building or facility owned or leased by Cook County.
(a) No person shall, at any time, fly any form of UAS on County property unless expressly
authorized by the Agency that is the custodian of said property. Any person violating the provisions of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of $2,500.00 for each offense and shall be adjudicated pursuant to
Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
(b) Confiscation; seizure. Whenever an Agency or any of its duly authorized representatives shall
discover any UAS used in violation of this section on County property, they are hereby authorized and
empowered forthwith to confiscate; seize and take possession of such UAS and it shall thereupon be
deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.
(c) Destruction; redemption. If it is determined at an administrative hearing, by a preponderance
of evidence, that the seized UAS was not operated in violation of this section, such UAS may be
claimed by its owner without charge within 7 days of such determination. In the event that the UAS
remains unclaimed after such period, the Agency shall cause the seized UAS to be destroyed.
(d) Operations Authorized by the State of Illinois - Exception. Notwithstanding the prohibitions
set forth in this section, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of an unmanned
aerial system (UAS) by a law enforcement agency in accordance with Section 15 of the Freedom from
Drone Surveillance Act, codified at 725 ILCS 167/1, et seq., or its successor provision.
(e) If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, subdivision or other part of this ordinance or its
applications shall be adjudged by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional,
such order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or otherwise invalidate the remainder of this ordinance
which shall remain in full force and effect except as limited by such order or judgment.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Recommend for deferral

Page 6 of 7

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Absent:

Suffredin, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Tobolski (15)
Fritchey and Butler (2)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 7 of 7

 