NOVEMBER 6, 2006
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
There will be a public hearing meeting of the Law Enforcement and Corrections Committee of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, November 9, 2006, at the hour of 2:30 P.M. in
the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the
following:
276232

A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE COOK COUNTY SHERIFF IMPLEMENT AN
OFFENDER WATCH SYSTEM WITH AN AUTOMATIC E-MAIL ALERT CAPABILITY
(PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
Joseph Mario Moreno, John H. Stroger, Jr., President, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool,
Earlean Collins, John P. Daley, Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Carl R.
Hansen, Roberto Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy, Anthony J. Peraica, Mike
Quigley, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Bobbie L. Steele and Larry Suffredin,
County Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, 80-95% of sexual assault victims know their attacker; and
WHEREAS, 50% of sex offenders re-offend; and
WHEREAS, 45% of sexual assault victims are under 12 years of age; and
WHEREAS, at least half of convicted child molesters report that they also have
sexually assaulted an adult; and
WHEREAS, more than half of rape/sexual assaults happen within one mile of the
victim’s home; and
WHEREAS, 80% of all addresses have at least one offender within a mile; and
WHEREAS, sex offenders cross socio-economic boundaries, living in both the richest
and poorest of neighborhoods; and
WHEREAS, Illinois State statute sets a provision for a Sheriff’s office to register
offenders and notify the public; and
WHEREAS, offenders are very mobile, with 25% moving each year; and

 LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIONS COMMITTEE NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING
NOVEMBER 6, 2006
PAGE 2
WHEREAS, the new offender population increases by a rate of 10% annually; and
WHEREAS, online alert systems are available, which not only allow a citizen to look
up registered offenders in their area, but to receive an email alert, followed by a
postcard and/or automated telephone alert when a registered sex offender moves to
within one mile of sensitive addresses, such as a home, school, park, etc.; and
WHEREAS, a web-based offender watch alert system will also permit one to conduct
address searches that will create a map showing all offenders within one mile of the
address, as well as a geographic risk assessment of the offenders; and
WHEREAS, this program will also allow for city and name searches, as well as
provide detailed descriptions on offenders including: name, aliases, physical
description, photograph, nature of conviction and a map of the offender’s address; and
WHEREAS, this program is an important tool that will enable one to attain this
necessary knowledge to help keep our children and families safe and at a relatively
low cost; and
WHEREAS, it is in the interest of everyone to help protect our children from this
seemingly ever increasing danger.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby request that the Cook County Sheriff’s web site
implement an Offender Watch Alert system with an automatic email alert capability as
well as an automated telephone alert capability, which will assist in informing our
residents where sexual offenders reside and thereby giving them, in a timely manner,
the information they need to protect their families and reduce the chance of future
victimization.
*Referred to the Committee on Law Enforcement and Corrections on 03/01/06.
Approved as Amended on 09/14/06.
Note: The Committee Report appeared on the Board Agenda of 09/19/06.
Following a letter read into the record, the Committee Report was withdrawn.
The public may testify at this meeting. Persons wishing to testify should give their name and the name
of any organization they are representing to the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room
567, County Building, Telephone: (312) 603-6127. Also you can register at the above location, at the
time of the meeting. Each organization will be limited to one speaker. Each speaker will be limited to 3
minutes. Speakers are requested to submit 30 copies of any written statement to the committee.

____________________________
Michelle Harris, Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Maldonado
Silvestri
Butler, Gorman, Moreno, Peraica, Quigley

 