JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY
NOVEMBER 3, 2010

TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS
JERRY BUTLER
FORREST CLAYPOOL
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
BRIDGET GAINER
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
ANTHONY J. PERAICA
EDWIN REYES
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY
Meeting of Wednesday, November 3, 2010
10:00 A.M.
Daylight Savings Time
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING
____________________
Board met pursuant to law and pursuant to Resolution 10-R-20.

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Stroger in the Chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 10:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin - 17.

Absent:

None.
_________________________

President Stroger moved that the meeting do now recess for the purpose of holding the various committee
meetings.

1

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
BOARD RECONVENED
President Stroger in the Chair.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin - 17.

Absent:

None.

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
PRESIDENT
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VI, Sections 38-110 through 38-140 of the Cook County Code are hereby enacted as
follows:
ARTICLE VI. MEDICAL EXAMINER
Sec. 38-110.

Office of coroner eliminated.

The Office of Coroner of Cook County is hereby eliminated.
Sec. 38-111.

Office created.

There is hereby created the Office of the Medical Examiner.
Sec. 38-112.

Qualifications and appointment.

(a)
The Medical Examiner must be a physician licensed by the State of Illinois to practice
medicine in all its branches and must hold a certificate from the American Board of Pathology in both
Forensic Pathology and Anatomic Pathology.
(b)
The Medical Examiner shall be appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners for a term of office which

2

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
shall continue until the Medical Examiner resigns or is removed for cause following notice and an
opportunity to be heard.
Sec. 38-113.

Duties.

The Medical Examiner has and shall exercise the powers, duties, responsibilities, functions and
authority provided by ordinance for those purposes and functions.
Any abuse by the Medical Examiner of the authority contained in this ordinance shall be deemed
cause for removal.
Sec. 38-114.

Academic appointments.

Upon the approval of the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Medical
Examiner and various personnel of his/her staff may accept academic appointments consistent with their
primary responsibilities to the office of the Medical Examiner.
Sec. 38-115.

Employees.

All employees of the Office of the Medical Examiner shall be County employees and subject to
the rules and regulations established by the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 38-116.

Yearly budget.

The Medical Examiner of Cook County shall submit to the President of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners a yearly budget requesting funds to operate and maintain the Office of the Medical
Examiner.
Sec. 38-117.

Cooperative agreements.

The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to negotiate cooperative agreements with other
agencies having laboratory facilities subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County.
Sec. 38-118.

Deaths subject to investigation.

The Medical Examiner shall investigate any human death that falls within any of the following
categories:
(a)

Criminal violence.

(b)

Suicide.

(c)

Accident.

(d)

Suddenly when in apparent good health.

(e)

Unattended by a practicing, licensed physician.

(f)

Suspicious or unusual circumstances.

3

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
(g)

Criminal abortion.

(h)

Poisoning or attributable to an adverse reaction to drugs and/or alcohol.

(i)

Diseases constituting a threat to public health.

(j)

Disease, injury or toxic agent resulting from employment.

(k)

During medical diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.

(l)

In any prison or penal institution.

(m)
custody.

When involuntarily confined in jail, prison, hospitals or other institutions or in Police

(n)

When any human body is to be cremated, dissected or buried at sea.

(o)

Unclaimed bodies.

(p)
When a dead body is brought into a new medico-legal jurisdiction without proper
medical certification.
Sec. 38-119.

Establishing manner and cause of death.

Where a death has occurred under any of the circumstances enumerated in Sec. 38-118, then an
investigation, including autopsy if necessary, shall be conducted sufficient to establish manner and cause
of death, and the Medical Examiner shall discover and retain any and all evidence for use in the
investigation. He/she shall also have the authority to retain such parts of the body as he/she deems
necessary in the public interest.
Sec. 38-120.

Death certificate.

The Medical Examiner, upon completion of his/her investigation and examination, shall cause a
death certificate to be issued specifically setting forth the cause, circumstances and manner of death, if
determinable, or if undeterminable, so state.
Sec. 38-121.

Death from criminal conduct – procedure.

(a)
If it is the Medical Examiner's opinion that any death may have resulted from the
criminal conduct of persons other than the deceased, he/she shall immediately notify the Office of the
State's Attorney.
(b)
The Medical Examiner shall notify the proper governmental agency where, in his/her
opinion, a death resulted from an industrial hazard, from an infectious disease process, poison or toxin
potentially hazardous to the general public, from a traffic hazard or from a common public practice which
carries hazards to life or health.
Sec. 38-122.

Death subject to investigation, duty to notify.

(a)
Any person, including but not limited to any law enforcement officer, physician, nurse,
ambulance attendant, hospital director or administrator, or funeral director who shall become aware of a

4

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
death subject to investigation under Sec. 38-118 shall immediately report such death to the Office of the
Medical Examiner or to any law enforcement officer; any such report to a law enforcement officer shall
be immediately transmitted to the Medical Examiner.
(b)
Upon receipt of such report, the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed representative
may go to the location of the body and take charge of same, and may begin his/her investigation with an
examination of the scene.
(c)
No person shall disturb the scene of such death, nor shall any person handle, move,
disturb, undress, embalm, or remove the body from the position in which it is found, until authorized by
the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed representative, except for the purpose of preserving such body
from damage or destruction, or in such cases as may be authorized by the Medical Examiner. Whenever
the Medical Examiner shall lawfully assume jurisdiction of a body, it shall not be removed or released
from his/her jurisdiction except upon his/her direction and consent.
Sec. 38-123.

Order to disinter.

The Medical Examiner may petition the Circuit Court for an order to disinter for the purpose of
investigation or autopsy or both.
Sec. 38-124.

Permission required for removal.

No dead human body whose death may be subject to investigation under Sec. 38-118, or the
personal property of such a deceased person, shall be handled, removed, disturbed, embalmed or removed
from the place of death by any person except with the permission of the Medical Examiner, unless the
same shall be necessary to protect life, safety, or health.
Sec. 38-125.

Decedent's Personal Property.

(a)
The Medical Examiner shall cause an inventory to be taken whenever any valuable
personal property, money or papers are found upon or near a dead human body whose death may be
subject to investigation under Sec. 38-118.
(b)
The Medical Examiner or his/her properly authorized subordinate shall take charge of the
same and deliver the same to those entitled to its care and possession, or otherwise properly dispose of the
same; but if not claimed, the Medical Examiner after retention of said personal property for one year and
after giving ten days’ notice of the time and place of sale, shall sell such property, and after deducting
Medical Examiner’s expenses, deposit the proceeds thereof, and the money and papers so found, with the
County Treasurer, taking his/her receipt therefore, there to remain subject to the order of the legal
representatives of the deceased, if claimed within five years thereafter, or if not claimed within that time,
to be used to offset the costs for indigent burials.
Sec. 38-126.

Procedures and powers in investigation into cause of death.

(a)
The Medical Examiner shall have the power to establish and supervise the procedures to
be utilized in the conduct of investigations necessary to establish the cause and manner of death. The
Medical Examiner, at his/her option, shall have the power to call and conduct public hearings in cases of
public interest.
(b)
The Medical Examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas requiring persons to give
information under oath and to produce books, records, papers or such other documents or objects the

5

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Medical Examiner shall deem necessary to establish the cause or manner of death. The Medical Examiner
or a hearing officer acting in his/her behalf shall have the power to administer the necessary oath or
affirmation to such witness. Any witness appearing at an investigation or public hearing shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
Sec. 38-127.

Decedent under spiritual treatment

The Medical Examiner shall not be precluded, in making his/her investigation, from consulting
with the decedent's next of kin, personal representative, friends, or the person designated in writing by the
decedent, where the decedent was under treatment by prayer or spiritual means alone in accordance with
the tenets and practices of a well-recognized church or religious denomination, nor shall this ordinance be
construed to require an autopsy solely by reason of the fact that the decedent was under treatment by
prayer or spiritual means alone.
Sec. 38-128.

Permit required for disposition of body; fee.

No person shall cause the remains of any dead human body within Cook County to be cremated,
dissected or buried at sea without first obtaining a permit from the Medical Examiner. The cost of the
permit shall be $50.00 when obtained at the Office of the Medical Examiner, obtained by facsimile or
electronic filing.
Sec. 38-129.

Permit to cremate.

Where the remains of any dead human body are to be cremated, dissected or buried at sea, thus
becoming unavailable for later examination; it shall be the duty of the funeral director or person having
custody of the dead human body to obtain from the Medical Examiner a permit. The Medical Examiner’s
Permit shall be presented to the local registrar in applying for the permit for disposition of a dead human
body provided for in Section 410 ILCS 535/21 of the “Vital Records Act,” as heretofore or hereafter
amended, and the local registrar shall attach the Medical Examiner’s permit to cremate to the permit for
disposition of a dead human body which is issued. No crematory shall cremate a dead human body unless
a permit for disposition of a dead human body with an attached Medical Examiner’s Permit has been
furnished to authorize the cremation
Sec. 38-130.

Release of the body.

Upon completion of the Medical Examiner’s investigation and examination, the Medical
Examiner shall release the body of the decedent to the decedent’s next of kin, personal representative,
friends, or to the person designated in writing by the decedent or to the funeral director selected by such
persons, as the case may be, for proper disposition and none of the duties or powers of the Medical
Examiner enumerated in this ordinance shall be construed to interfere with or control the right of such
persons to the custody and proper disposition of the decedent upon completion of the Medical Examiner’s
investigation. If there are no such persons, The Medical Examiner shall cause the proper disposition of
the decedent, if sufficient, if not, by an appropriate government agency. The Medical Examiner shall
have the power to dispose of any body in accordance with the “Cadaver Act,” 410 ILCS 510 et seq.
Sec. 38-131.

Records to be kept.

(a)
The Medical Examiner shall keep full and complete records properly indexed, giving the
name, if known, of every person whose death is investigated, the place where and the date when the body
was found and the date of death, if known. In case the name of the decedent is not known, the Medical
Examiner shall prepare a description of the person and enter the same upon his/her records, together with

6

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
all facts and circumstances of the death which may be known, and which may later lead to the
identification of the dead person.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the Medical Examiner to keep on file in his/her office full and
complete records of all deaths coming under his/her jurisdiction, together with his/her conclusions
therein.
(c)
Upon completion of investigation and any related criminal proceeding, the official report
of the Medical Examiner's investigation shall be made available for inspection to any person with
substantial or important interest upon written request. A copy of the official report may be obtained upon
payment of the duplication fee. This shall not foreclose access to other records where appropriate.
Sec. 38-132.

Advisory committee.

There shall be created a Medical Examiner's Advisory Committee appointed by the President of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners.
Members shall include but not be limited to persons representing the medical profession, funeral
directors, State’s Attorney, police and the public. The members of this committee shall serve without
pay, but shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Such
expenses shall be paid from the Medical Examiner’s budget.
Sec. 38-133.

Death caused by wrongful act; liability for expenses incurred.

Any person, individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company, trust, estate, political
subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity who causes the death of a decedent by a wrongful act,
carelessness, or negligence which shall be subject to a Medical Examiner’s investigation shall be liable to
pay any and all expenses incurred by such investigation and the associated burial expenses. The same
shall be recoverable by the county.
Sec. 38-134.

Transportation costs.

All transportation costs of the body incident to the Medical Examiner's investigation shall be
recoverable from the estate of the deceased.
Sec. 38-135.

Fees.

The Medical Examiner shall charge the following fees with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of
this Code.
(1)

Autopsy report.

(2)

Toxicology report.

(3)

Miscellaneous Reports, including artist's drawings, but not including police reports.

(4)

Permit to cremate a dead human body obtained from the Office of the Medical Examiner,
by facsimile or electronic filing.

(5)

Return fee. The Return Fee is charged to funeral homes that pick up bodies from the
Medical Examiner's Office and then request to return them to the Office after determining

7

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
that the family has no funds for burial. This cost would include the cost of the burial
shell and the burial cost.
(6)

Death certificate amendment fee. Fee is charged if the amendment is made later than 1
year of the person's death (due to a return by Funeral Home). The Office of the Medical
Examiner is charged by the Illinois Department of Vital Records for amendments made
to a death certificate after 1 year of the death.

(7)

Storage fee. This fee covers the bodies returned (by the Funeral Homes) to the Office of
the Medical Examiner for storage while families secure funds for burial services. This
"storage fee" would replace the "return fee" if a funeral home returns a body and picks it
up again within 10 days. If the body is not picked up within 10 days, the body will be
held and buried by the County according to the standard operating procedures of the
Medical Examiner. This "storage fee" discourages the use of the Office of the Medical
Examiner as a storage location by funeral homes and also encourages the funeral
directors to verify that families have funds for burial prior to removing a body from the
Office of the Medical Examiner.

(8)

Photographs, radiographs, and histology slides.

Sec. 38-136.

Debt due County.

All fees and expense reimbursements shall constitute a debt due the County of Cook and be paid
to the Medical Examiner who shall deposit the same with the County Treasurer on the last day of every
month.
Sec. 38-137.

Impersonation unlawful.

It shall be unlawful for any individual to impersonate the Medical Examiner and/or any Medical
Examiner investigator.
Sec. 38-138.

Penalty for violation.

Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this ordinance shall be fined not more than
$1,000 and imprisoned not more than six months.
Sec. 38-139.

Annual report.

The Medical Examiner shall prepare and submit to the Cook County Board of Commissioners an
annual report of the activities of his/her office.
Sec. 38-140.

Special accounts in the County treasury.

Monies received by the Medical Examiner’s Office and placed in the special accounts shall be
used solely for the purchase of electronic and forensic identification equipment or other related supplies
and the operating expenses of the Medical Examiner’s Office.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule.

8

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:

Code Section

Fees, Rates,
Charges
(in dollars)

Description

CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
38-135(a)(1)

Autopsy report

50.00

38-135(a)(2)

Toxicology report

25.00

38-135(a)(3)

Miscellaneous Reports, including artist's drawings,
25.00
but not including police reports

38-135(a)(4)

Permit to cremate a dead human body

50.00

38-135(a)(5)

Return fee

300.00

38-135(a)(6)

Death certificate amendment fee

15.00

38-135(a)(7)

Storage fee

50.00/day
(not
exceed $500.00)

38-135(a)(8)

Photographs, radiographs, histology slides

actual cost or $3.00
which ever is greater

to

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1) Prior
notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be referred
to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 309540). The motion carried unanimously.
RESOLUTION
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called one of the most deeply influential spiritual
leaders in the United States, Bishop Arthur M. Brazier, from our midst; and

9

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier was born on July 22, 1921 in Chicago, Illinois, the son of Robert and
Geneva Scott Brazier; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier attended Stephen A. Douglas elementary school and matriculated at
Wendell Phillips High School, leaving after one year to join the work force; and
WHEREAS, drafted into a segregated United States Army in 1942, Bishop Brazier became a staff
sergeant and served in India and Burma at the height of World War II; and
WHEREAS, honorably discharged from the Army in 1945, Bishop Brazier met his future wife, Esther
Isabelle Holmes, in July of 1947 and they were married on February 21, 1948; and
WHEREAS, in 1955, while working for the U.S. Postal Service as a letter carrier, Bishop Brazier
enrolled in evening classes at Moody Bible Institute, where he undertook six years of formal, systematic
biblical training, and received a graduating certificate in 1961; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier became the pastor of Universal Church of Christ on Chicago’s South Side in
1952; in 1960 he merged his congregation with that of the Apostolic Church of God in the Woodlawn
neighborhood of Chicago; Bishop Brazier served as pastor of the Apostolic Church of God from 1960
until 2008 when he became Pastor Emeritus; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier also served as diocesan of the Sixth Episcopal District of the Pentecostal
Assemblies of the World for 31 years; and
WHEREAS, over the course of almost six decades, Bishop Brazier, through his spiritual dispensations,
aided countless many on their personal faith journeys; and
WHEREAS, in addition to his spiritual leadership, Bishop Brazier was a pioneer in community
organizing in the United States; in 1961 he became the founding president of The Woodlawn
Organization, one of the most successful community organizations in the nation; through The Woodlawn
Organization, Bishop Brazier fought against gangs and crime, and agitated for affordable housing and
better schools; Bishop Brazier was a stalwart presence of opposition when the University of Chicago
sought to expand into the Woodlawn neighborhood; this would have displaced residents and used land
that Bishop Brazier had hoped to utilize for low-income housing; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier and Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. became acquainted in 1966, when
Bishop Brazier invited Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to the Apostolic Church of God for its annual
Bible Conference; Bishop Brazier supported Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during the 1960s in
Chicago, marching in the struggle against segregation in housing and schools despite bomb threats on his
church and threats to his life; and
WHEREAS, in 1969, Bishop Brazier accepted a staff position with the Citizens Crusade Against Poverty
and, in 1970, he resigned as President of The Woodlawn Organization. Bishop Brazier also joined the
staff of The Center for Community Change, a Washington-based institution that provided technical
assistance to community organizations across the country; after several years with The Center, Bishop
Brazier was promoted to the office of Vice President in charge of Major Projects, and remained in this
position until 1986 when he resigned to spend more time with his Church; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier was the founding chairman of the Board of the Woodlawn Preservation and
Investment Corporation, a community-based group organized for the improvement of the Woodlawn
community, and was the founding chairman of the Fund for Community Redevelopment and

10

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Revitalization; this group of community and institutional leaders came together to undertake efforts over
the next five-to-ten years to rebuild two communities, namely East Woodlawn and North KenwoodOakland; and
WHEREAS, the Apostolic Church of God continues to be an obligatory stop on the campaign trail of
those individuals seeking higher office; when President Barack Obama visited the Apostolic Church of
God during his presidential campaign in June of 2008, he paid homage to Bishop Brazier’s moral
rectitude when he called him “one of our nation’s leading moral lights”; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier influenced several generations of young pastors, teaching them–not in the
least by example–how to navigate the junctures of the political and the spiritual, and how to master the
melding of the two; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier was a sought-after speaker and teacher, and he authored a number of articles
for various publications as well as three books, Black Self-Determination, Saved By Grace and Grace
Alone, and From Milk to Meat; and
WHEREAS, despite his full life and many obligations, Bishop Brazier devoted time selflessly to
numerous charitable and civic organizations; as an appointee of Mayor Daley’s, Bishop Brazier served on
the Public Building Commission of Chicago for 20 years, resigning last year; and he chaired both the
Executive Committee of the New Communities Program/Woodlawn, an affiliate of the Local Initiative
Support Corporation, as well as the Woodlawn Children’s Promise Community; and
WHEREAS, in 2008, Bishop Brazier stepped down from the pulpit of the Apostolic Church of God and
became Bishop Emeritus, and his son, Rev. Dr. Byron Brazier, donned the Church’s leadership mantle;
what started out as a 100-member congregation in 1960 had mushroomed, by 2009, into a vital and
vibrant congregation 20,000-members-strong; and
WHEREAS, in a testament to the high esteem in which Bishop Brazier was held, the following are just a
few words that have been used to denote his character and complexity as a human being: dignity, grace,
gentleness, intellect, sophistication, dedication, and integrity; and
WHEREAS, in losing Bishop Brazier we have lost a man who spiritually galvanized and economically
uplifted a multitude of people, and whose profound legacy shall live on for many, many years to come;
and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier leaves to mourn his loving wife, Esther Isabelle Brazier, four children, Lola
Hillman, Janice Dortch, Rosalyn Shepherd, and Dr. Byron T. Brazier, seven grandchildren, and eleven
great-grandchildren, as well as a host of extended family and friends.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Bishop Arthur M. Brazier will be remembered in the
hearts of all the people he touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, President Todd H. Stroger, along with the Cook County Board
of Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby express
our deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and
loved ones of Bishop Arthur M. Brazier, and may a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the
family of Bishop Arthur M. Brazier so that his rich legacy may be so honored and ever cherished.
_________________________

11

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the mission of the Cook County Department of Budget and Management Services is to
provide a medium for which County Executives can determine the use of resources for the provision of
services to the citizens of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Budget and Management Services is the service agency
responsible for preparation and publication of the Executive Budget Recommendation and the Annual
Appropriation Bill; and
WHEREAS, since 1906 the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) has served as the
professional association of local finance officers throughout the United States and Canada; and
WHEREAS, in 1984 GFOA established their Distinguished Budget Presentation Awards Program to
recognize units of governments that create budget documents reflecting GFOA best practices and the
National Advisory Council on State and Local Budgeting guidelines; and
WHEREAS, GFOA evaluates budget documents submitted by units of government and bestows the
Distinguished Budget Presentation Award upon those rated outstanding as a policy document, a financial
plan, an operations guide and as a communications device; and
WHEREAS, the Government Finance Officers Association Distinguished Budget Presentation Award is
the highest form of recognition in governmental budgeting in North America; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has been a recipient of the Government Finance Officers Association
Distinguished Budget Presentation Award for 17 years; and
WHEREAS, the GFOA recently presented the Cook County Department of Budget and Management
Services with the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award for Fiscal Year 2010; and
WHEREAS, the Government Finance Officers Association Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
reflects the commitment of Cook County and the Department of Budget and Management Services to
meet the highest principles in government budgeting, to improve the quality of the budgeting process and
to provide an excellent example for other units of local governments throughout North America.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, that the
President and Board do hereby congratulate Takashi Reinbold, Department Director and the entire staff of
the Department of Budget and Management Services for receipt of this notable award; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body in appreciation of the outstanding work performed by the Department of Budget and Management

12

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Services in the course of performing their important duties in preparing Cook County’s Annual Executive
Budget Recommendation and the Annual Appropriation Bill.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
COMMISSIONERS
PURCHASE ORDER ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 28, 2010 from
JERRY BUTLER, County Commissioner
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $22,400.00 and extend for six (6)
months, Purchase Order No. 171815-000-0P with Vanessa D. Meyer, for contractual services.
Original Purchase Order amount approved 02-23-10:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$12,000.00
24,000.00 22,400.00
$36,000.00 34,400.00

This extension will allow for the continuation of professional services to be rendered through
the anticipated duration of sick leave for a full time employee. There are sufficient funds
available in the 083-133 Account to cover this increase. The expiration date of the current
contract is November 30, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $24,000.00 22,400.00. Purchase order extension: December 1, 2010 through
May 31, 2011. (083-133 Account).
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1) Prior
notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to amend the requested Purchase Order
Addendum. The motion to amend carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the request of the Commissioner
be approved, as amended and that the County Purchasing Agent be authorized to increase and extend the
requested Purchase Order. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 28, 2010 from
JERRY BUTLER, County Commissioner
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $17,920.00 and extend for six (6)
months, Purchase Order No. 171814-000-0P with Wilbur Rainey, for contractual services.
Original Purchase Order amount approved 02-23-10:
13

$24,000.00

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

17,920.00
$41,000.00

This extension will allow for the continuation of professional services to be rendered through
the anticipated duration of sick leave for a full time employee. There are sufficient funds
available in the 083-133 Account to cover this increase. The expiration date of the current
contract is November 30, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $17,920.00. Purchase order extension: December 1, 2010 through May 31,
2011. (083-133 Account).
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1) Prior
notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to amend the requested Purchase Order
Addendum. The motion to amend carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the request of the Commissioner
be approved, as amended and that the County Purchasing Agent be authorized to increase and extend the
requested Purchase Order. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED REPORT
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 27, 2010 from
ROBERT B. STEELE and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
request to place the Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) Summary Report No. IIG-080122 (M/WBE Survey and Audit) on the Board agenda for referral to the Contract Compliance
Committee for review.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Contract Compliance (Comm. No. 309520). The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EDWIN REYES, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34 Finance, Section 34282, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

14

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Sec. 34-282.

Reporting and review.

The County Board directs the Contract Compliance Administrator to report to the County Board
on an annual a quarterly basis with respect to the following:
(1)

The level of Protected Class Enterprise participation achieved in each year quarter in
County contracts subject to this division, including monthly payment status reports for
prime contractors for said contracts;

(2)

The then current estimated availability of Protected Class Enterprises to perform County
contracts;

(3)

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the article in ensuring full and equitable
participation by Protected Class Enterprises in County contracts and in mitigating the
competitive disadvantage suffered by Minority Business Enterprises and Women's
Business Enterprises due to the present effects of discrimination in the local economy and
award public contracts;

(4)

An assessment of the continuing need for utilization goals for specific types of goods and
services used in County contracts;

(5)

Identification of any enforcement problems; and

(6)

Any recommendations with respect to improving the County's effectiveness in remedying
the effects of discrimination against Minority Business Enterprises and Women's
Business Enterprises and/or discontinuing or modifying any affirmative action
requirements in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises and Women's Business
Enterprises no longer are disadvantaged by the effects of discrimination in their
participation in County contracts.
_________________________

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Contract Compliance. (Comm. No. 309521). The motion
carried unanimously.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EDWIN REYES, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REQUESTING AN INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF THE
COUNTY’S CONTRACT COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

15

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

WHEREAS, Chapter 34, Division 6, Cook County Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise
Ordinance states as its purpose that it is the public policy of the County to ensure the full and equitable
participation of minority and female owned businesses in the County's procurement process as both prime
and subcontractor; and
WHEREAS, Section 34-272 further states that the County is committed to a policy of preventing
discrimination in the award of or participation in County contracts and eliminating arbitrary barriers to
full participation in such contracts by all persons, regardless of race, sex, or ethnicity; and
WHEREAS, in fulfillment of its policy to promote equal opportunity in its procurement process, the
County established the goal that Protected Class Enterprises shall participate in not less then 35 percent of
the annual aggregate value of all contracts awarded by the County; and
WHEREAS, to achieve the goals stated in the ordinance, the Purchasing Agent shall include in the bid
specifications a requirement that each contractor commit that Minority Business Enterprise and Women's
Business Enterprise participation in the contract will equal at least 25 percent (30 percent in the case of
construction contracts) and 10 percent, respectively, of the total dollar value of the contract; and
WHEREAS, the impetus for the establishment of the County’s MBE/WBE Ordinance was the result of
an investigation directed by the County Board, which found that minority and women's businesses
continued to be awarded prime contracts and subcontracts in dollar amounts that were disproportionately
lower than the availability of such businesses willing and able to perform County contracts; the County's
procurement practices in the past had contributed to the above identified under-utilization of minority and
women's businesses on County contracts; minority and women's businesses continued to be
disadvantaged by discriminatory practices in the local construction industry and economy when
competing for County contracts and in seeking subcontracting opportunities on such contracts; the County
was a passive participant in the discriminatory practices of businesses, which discriminate against
minority and women's businesses by entering into contracts with such businesses; and
WHEREAS, just recently, members of this Honorable Body have received complaints from local
MBE/WBE vendors that they are not being allowed to participate in the majority of contracts awarded by
the Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS), which led to the passage of two resolutions,
namely resolution 10-R-163 and 10-R-228 seeking to shed light on their compliance with the County’s
MBE/WBE ordinance; and
WHEREAS, this body has also received similar complaints for contracts awarded by the County, which
has ultimately led to the audit/survey conducted by the Independent Inspector General’s office; and
WHEREAS, the Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) Report No. IIG-08-0122 (M/WBE
Survey and Audit) of October 21, 2010, which includes a random sampling of M/WBE vendors and
concludes that substantial deviations from the program goals as well as potentially fraudulent conduct
exists, such as but not limited to prime contractors not allowing M/WBEs to participate in awarded
contracts according to the County’s program goals or not paying them for said participation, and requests
for M/WBEs to serve as “Pass Through” enterprises for Prime Contractors to win County contracts; and
WHEREAS, the report further concludes that these violations could have been discovered or prevented
with the existence of an effective internal control framework in place to monitor M/WBE contract
participation and in several of the cases the Contract Compliance Department failed to successfully
monitor contract performance and that currently there is an almost complete lack on the part of said
department to enforce contractor’s reporting obligations and review of contract activity from the

16

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Purchasing Agent, enabling prime contractors to circumvent program goals and raising major concerns
about the integrity of the County’s M/WBE program; and
WHEREAS, the examples and findings contained in the Inspector General’s report make a mockery of
the meritorious goal and will of this Honorable Body to prevent discrimination in the award of or
participation in County contracts and to ensure that minority and women's businesses are provided full
and equal opportunity to participate in said contracts; and
WHEREAS, the egregious conduct revealed in the OIIG report cannot be tolerated or allowed to persist.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, does
hereby request that an independent audit, under the direction of the OIIG, of the County’s Contract
Compliance program be immediately initiated in order to verify and document adherence with the
County’s Minority and Women’s Enterprise Ordinance for contracts subject to the ordinance entered into
by Cook County including the CCHHS and all departments and elected officials over the last three years
to include all current contracts, as well as to verify that the department’s organizational structure and
procedures are optimal for the proper implementation of the ordinance; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that in advance of said audit, that all of the recommendations
contained in the Inspector General’s report be immediately implemented by the Department of Contract
Compliance; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all cases of possible fraudulent activity as found in the report be
investigated to the fullest extent of the law and that any subsequent fraudulent activity found as a result of
the above requested audit also be similarly investigated; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Honorable Body requests to be informed about the progress of
the implementation of the OIIG recommendations and any further recommendations that result from the
independent audit as well as the results of any investigations regarding fraudulent activity.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Finance (Comm. No. 309522). The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
RESOLUTION
The following item was previously approved by poll on October 26, 2010:
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN,

17

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION REQUESTING THAT ILLINOIS GOVERNOR PAT QUINN
APPEAL THE DETERMINATION MADE BY THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY THAT COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS DOES NOT QUALIFY FOR FEDERAL
DISASTER ASSISTANCE UNDER THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR THE
FLOODING DISASTER OF JULY 23 AND 24, 2010
WHEREAS, on July 23 and 24, 2010, numerous communities in Cook County experienced major
flooding caused by more than seven (7) inches of rain water in certain areas (the “Flooding Disaster”),
resulting in devastating damage to property and the displacement of residents from their homes; and
WHEREAS, the many municipalities and local governmental bodies submitted to the Cook County
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (“DHSEM”) an assessment of the
overwhelming damage sustained by those entities during the Flooding Disaster; and
WHEREAS, the DHSEM, on behalf of all of the communities in Cook County, Illinois affected by the
Flooding Disaster, compiled a total of all of the assessed damage in Cook County, Illinois incurred during
the Flooding Disaster, which amounted to Twenty-Six Million Six Hundred Fourteen Thousand Seven
Hundred Five Dollars and Ninety-Five Cents ($26,614,705.95) and forwarded that total to the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency (“IEMA”); and
WHEREAS, IEMA, based upon the information received from the DHSEM, completed an application
for public assistance and filed the application with the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(“FEMA”); and
WHEREAS, based upon the cost-share regulations governing FEMA (44 C.F.R. §206.47), the Per Capita
Impact Indicator Threshold for Public Assistance in Cook County is Seventeen Million Three Hundred
Sixty-Six Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy-Three Dollars and Forty-Three Cents ($17,366,873.43); and
WHEREAS, after reviewing the application filed by IEMA, FEMA determined that only Fourteen
Million Six Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand and Ten Dollars ($14,655,010.00) in assessed damages
sustained in Cook County, Illinois were eligible for disaster assistance; and
WHEREAS, because FEMA has determined that only Fourteen Million Six Hundred Fifty-Five
Thousand and Ten Dollars ($14,655,010.00) in assessed damages sustained in Cook County, Illinois are
eligible for disaster assistance, FEMA has denied the allocation of disaster assistance funds to Cook
County, Illinois and to the various local governmental bodies; and
WHEREAS, each of the local governmental bodies requires disaster assistance to restore its
infrastructure and generally to protect the public health, safety and welfare of its residents; and
WHEREAS, based upon these substantial governmental concerns, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners request that, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5189a and 44 C.F.R. §206.440, Illinois Governor Pat
Quinn appeal the determination made by FEMA to deny the allocation of disaster assistance funds to
Cook County, Illinois and to the local governmental bodies.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that the
facts and statements contained in the Preamble to this Resolution are found to be true and correct and are
hereby incorporated as part of this Resolution; and

18

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby requests that,
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5189a and 44 C.F.R. §206.440, Illinois Governor Pat Quinn appeal the
determination made by FEMA to deny the allocation of disaster assistance funds to Cook County, Illinois
and to the local governmental bodies; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Cook County’s elected and appointed officials and employees are
hereby authorized to take such actions as are necessary to aid Illinois Governor Pat Quinn in filing an
appeal with FEMA; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby directs the
Secretary of the Board to send a suitable copy of this Resolution to Governor Pat Quinn; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution shall be in full force and effect upon its passage
and approval in accordance with law.
_________________________

Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by

JOHN P. DALEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and ROBERT B. STEELE,
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION CONCERNING DENIAL OF UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
FOR CARLA OGELSBY
WHEREAS, On October 4, 2010, Carla Oglesby, former Deputy Chief of Staff to President Todd H.
Stroger, was arrested and charged by way of criminal complaint with a class X felony offense of Theft of
Government Property over $100,000.00; the class 1 felony offense of Money Laundering over
$100,000.00; and the class 3 felony offense of Official Misconduct; and
WHEREAS, in light of Ms. Oglesby arrest for these criminal charges, President Todd H. Stroger
requested and received a letter of resignation from Carla Oglesby on October 5, 2010; and
WHEREAS, Carla Oglesby recently submitted paperwork to the Illinois Department of Employment
Security (“IDES”) in order to receive unemployment insurance benefits and compensation; and
WHEREAS, under Illinois law, an individual may be disqualified from receiving unemployment benefits
if, among other reasons, one voluntarily terminates one’s employment (resigns), was discharged for
misconduct in connection with one’s work; or was discharged for a felony or theft in connection with
one’s work; and

19

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

WHEREAS, given the nature of the charges pending against Ms. Oglesby, regardless of whether her
resignation was voluntary or not, Ms. Oglesby should be disqualified from receiving unemployment
benefits from the IDES.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby request that President Todd H. Stroger and his administration object and contest Ms. Oglesby’s
claim for unemployment insurance benefits and compensation.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS,
JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Gloria Alitto Majewski, mother of Joy and Kimberly, was first elected to the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District (MWRD) as Commissioner in 1984, a position her husband Chester
Majewski held until his death; and
WHEREAS, one of her first acts as Commissioner was to develop a public education program to educate
school children, community groups, and civic and social organizations regarding the MWRD’s
importance in protecting the environment and health of residents; and
WHEREAS, Gloria Majewski was instrumental in the MWRD’s adoption of engineering technology that
saves taxpayers more than $3 million per year; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Majewski was the first woman in MWRD’s 100-year history to be elected by fellow
board members as finance chairman; and
WHEREAS, as finance chairman Mrs. Majewski pioneered a 5% or less tax cap on MWRD’s tax levy
five years before it became law; and
WHEREAS, since 1987, Mrs. Majewski has served on the Board of Trustees of the MWRD Retirement
Board and has made recommendations and monitored investments that have brought the market value of
the district’s pension from $300 million in 1986 to more than $1 billion in 2003; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Majewski served on the Board of Directors for New Horizon Center for the

20

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Developmentally Disabled and on the Board of Governors of Governors State University; and
WHEREAS, Gloria Majewski has received awards too numerous to mention from a variety of charitable
and professional organizations.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, commemorate the
retirement of Gloria Majewski and thank her for her 26 years of service at the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
IN MEMORY OF CATHERINE NYBERG
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg passed away on October 10, 2010; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg was a loving wife, daughter and aunt, and a consummate professional
who profoundly impacted everyone who she met; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg was born on April 17, 1972, in Chicago, Illinois to Latifah Rahim and
Jerome Johnson; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg graduated with Honors from Hyde Park Magnet High School and earned
her Bachelor of Arts degree from DePaul University; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg then began a legal career that spanned approximately fifteen years
divided between being a litigation assistant for Charles Gale and a bankruptcy assistant at Shefsky &
Froelich; and
WHEREAS, while at Shefsky & Froelich, Catherine Nyberg met her loving husband, David Nyberg; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg was a very spiritual person whose compassion extended to everyone she
met; and

21

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg is survived by her husband, David; her mother, Latifah Rahim; her father,
Jerome Johnson; her stepfather, Wayne Vines; her sisters, Katrina, Wanda Barnett and Danielle; her
godfathers, Michael Ewing and Walter Diggs; her nephews, James, Emmanuel, Edward and Davion; her
nieces, Shauntia, Tatianna, Little Latifah and Jessica; and a host of aunts, uncles, cousins and friends; and
WHEREAS, Catherine Nyberg will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew her.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences to the family and friends of Catherine Nyberg and joins them in
sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of
Catherine Nyberg so she may be forever honored and cherished.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6 (a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, on July 23, 2010 the Cook County Department of Homeland Security & Emergency
Management (DHSEM) prepared for and responded to Cook County Villages and Municipalities who
required County assistance for the severe storms and flooding that occurred; and
WHEREAS, DHSEM opened its Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at the Cook County Command
Communications Center (C-5) to coordinate County resources under the direction of Executive director
David R. Ramos, Sr. with the operations of the Cook County Highway department, the Bureau of
Information Technology, the Forest Preserves, Forest Preserve Police department, Public Health, and the
Sheriff office; and
WHEREAS, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System, the
Community Liaison for the American Red Cross, and the Director of Emergency Disaster Services from
the Salvation Army of Greater Chicago supplied their expertise to support the Cook County DHSEM and
the family members who were affected and had to relocate due to the severe storms; and
WHEREAS, DHSEM coordinated outside agencies to provide operational assistance and professional
counseling services to assist the many residents with food and sheltering through the American Red
Cross, and the Salvation Army; and

22

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
WHEREAS, Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger declared Cook County a disaster area on
July 27, 2010 after receiving 24 declarations from suburban municipalities through DHSEM declaring
themselves a state of emergency; and
WHEREAS, the role of the Department of Homeland Security & Emergency Management played in
assisting the operations process was positively acknowledged by Illinois Senator Richard Durbin, Illinois
Governor Patrick Quinn, Congressman Danny K. Davis, and over 20 Municipal Mayors, Village
Presidents, and Managers; and
WHEREAS, the Executive Director and the entire DHSEM staff helped secure over $260 million dollars
of Federal Assistance back to Cook County residents for individual assistance in getting back to their
normal living conditions.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE ITS RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners do hereby recognize and congratulate Executive Director David R. Ramos, Sr. the Cook
County department heads, outside partners, and all Cook County employees involved with the operations
for the July 23, 24, 2010 severe flooding for a Job Well Done!
_________________________
This item was WITHDRAWN at the request of the sponsor.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS AND BRIDGES
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger, Chairman Moreno, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Beavers,
Butler, Claypool, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele
and Suffredin (15)

Absent:

Commissioners Collins and Murphy (2)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Roads and Bridges, having had under consideration the matters hereinafter
mentioned, respectfully reports and recommends as follows:
SECTION 1
Your Committee has considered the following communications from Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E.,
Superintendent of Highways, recommending for approval change in plans and extra work in the
construction of certain highway improvements.
309213

COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, by Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E., Superintendent of
Highways, submitting recommendation for change in plans and extra work on Section: 05B6422-03-FP. Federal Project No.: M-8003 (167). Federal Job No.: C-91-066-02. 183rd
Street, LaGrange Road to 80th Avenue in the Village of Tinley Park in County Board

23

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
District #17. Adjustment of quantities. $53,735.90 (Addition).
309214

COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, by Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E., Superintendent of
Highways, submitting recommendation for change in plans and extra work on Section: 07B7731-03-FP. 136th Street, Dixie Highway to Wood Street in the City of Blue Island and
the Village of Dixmoor in County Board District #5. Final adjustment of quantities and
new items. $26,701.20 (Addition).
_________________________

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Report of the Roads &
Bridges be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
OCTOBER 12, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Commissioners Gainer, Vice Chairman Goslin, Reyes and
Schneider (5)
Ex-Officio Members: Laura A. Burman – Cook County Auditor; and Jaye Morgan
Williams – Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance (2)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler and Gorman (2)

Also Present:

Commissioners Peraica and Suffredin (2); Constance Kravitz – Cook County
Comptroller; and Tracey Guidry – Audit Director, Deloitte & Touche, LLP

Court Reporter:

Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on
Tuesday, October 12, 2010 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Daley called the meeting to order, and entered into the record a copy of a letter from his office
to the Chief Financial Officer. (Attachment A).
Jaye Morgan Williams, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance, addressed the Committee regarding
remedial measures planned in response to repeated audit findings.
Constance Kravitz, Cook County Comptroller, addressed the Committee regarding Cook County’s
Financial Statements for Fiscal Year 2009.

24

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Tracey Guidry, Audit Director, Deloitte & Touche, LLP delivered a required communication to the
Committee. Ms. Guidry presented the audit team, outlined its scope of work, and highlighted key
findings. (Attachment B).
Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance
with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
307923

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT - TREASURER’S OFFICE. Transmitting a
Communication, dated July 6, 2010 from Maria Pappas, County Treasurer:
submitting herewith a copy of the Independent Auditor’s Report of the financial statements
of the Cook County Treasurer’s Office as of November 30, 2009 and 2008 and a copy of
the Independent Auditor’s Report to Management of the Cook County Treasurer’s Office
for the year ended November 30, 2009.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 07-27-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 307923. The motion carried.
308442

FISCAL YEAR 2009 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR REPORT – OFFICE OF THE
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT. Transmitting a Communication from Dorothy A.
Brown, Clerk of the Circuit Court:
submitting the FY 2009 Independent Auditor’s Report which includes the Report of
Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting and on Compliance and Other Matters Based
on an Audit of Financial Statements Performed in Accordance with Government Auditing
Standards for the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Please accept this report and refer it to the Audit Committee for review.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 09-01-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308442. The motion carried.
308599

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT (CAFR) FOR THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER 30, 2009. Transmitting a Communication, dated
September 3, 2010 from Jaye M. Williams, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance:
submitting herewith a copy of Cook County’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report
(CAFR) for the fiscal year ending November 30, 2009, prepared by the Cook County
Comptroller and audited by Deloitte & Touche, LLP. Respectfully request that the report
be referred to the Cook County Board’s Audit Committee for further consideration.

25

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 09-15-10.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308599. The motion carried.
308600

COOK COUNTY AUDIT MANAGEMENT LETTER.
Transmitting a
Communication, dated September 3, 2010 from Jaye M. Williams, Chief Financial Officer,
Bureau of Finance:
submitting herewith a copy of Cook County’s Audit Management Letter for the fiscal year
ending November 30, 2009, prepared by Deloitte & Touche, LLP. Respectfully request
that the report be referred to the Cook County Board’s Audit Committee for further
consideration.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 09-15-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308600. The motion carried.
308996

COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM (CCHHS) FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2009.
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 28, 2010 from William T. Foley, Chief
Executive Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System:
submitting herewith a copy of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System Financial
Statements for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009. Respectfully request that the
report be referred to the Cook County Board's Audit Committee for further consideration.
This item was received and filed by the Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board at
their September 30, 2010 meeting.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 10-05-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308996. The motion carried.
308997

COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM (CCHHS) REPORT TO
MANAGEMENT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2009.
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 28, 2010 from William T. Foley, Chief
Executive Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System:
submitting herewith a copy of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System Report to
Management for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009. Respectfully request that the
report be referred to the Cook County Board's Audit Committee for further consideration.
This item was received and filed by the Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board at
their September 30, 2010 meeting.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 10-05-10.

26

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308997. The motion carried.
308998

COOK COUNTY’S FEDERAL SINGLE AUDIT A-133 CIRCULAR FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2009. Transmitting a Communication, dated
September 27, 2010 from Jaye M. Williams, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance:
submitting herewith a copy of Cook County’s Federal Single Audit A-133 Circular for the
fiscal year ended November 30, 2009, prepared by the Cook County Comptroller and
audited by Deloitte & Touche, LLP. Respectfully request that the report be referred to
Audit Committee for further consideration.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 10-05-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 308998. The motion carried.
309000

COOK COUNTY ACTUARIAL ANALYSIS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
NOVEMBER 30, 2009. Transmitting a Communication, dated September 14, 2010 from
Jaye M. Williams, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance:
submitting herewith is a copy of Cook County's Actuarial Analysis for the fiscal year
ended November 30, 2009, prepared by ARM Tech, a subsidiary of AON Risk Services. I
respectfully request that the report be referred to the Audit Committee for further
consideration.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 10-05-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 309000. The motion carried.
309033

COOK COUNTY’S BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2009. Transmitting a Communication, dated October 1, 2010
from Jaye M. Williams, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance:
submitting herewith a copy of Cook County’s Basic Financial Statements for the fiscal
year ended November 30, 2009, prepared by the Cook County Comptroller and audited by
Deloitte & Touche, LLP. Respectfully request that the report be referred to the Audit
Committee for further consideration.
* Referred to the Audit Committee on 10-05-10.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 309033. The motion carried.
Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, moved to adjourn the meeting. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

27

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Communication Number 307923
Communication Number 308442
Communication Number 308599
Communication Number 308600
Communication Number 308996
Communication Number 308997
Communication Number 308998
Communication Number 309000
Communication Number 309033

Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file
Receive and file

_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Report of the Audit be
approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers,
Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (17)

Absent:

None (0)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
SECTION 1
Your Committee has considered the following court orders submitted by attorneys for payment of fees
earned by said attorneys for defending indigent defendants.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by
the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks to said attorneys in the amounts
recommended.
NON-CAPITAL CASES
309236

LAW OFFICES OF ROTUNNO & GIRALAMO, P.C., Westchester, Illinois, presented by
Donna A. Rotunno, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $3,509.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Paul King. Indictment No. 08-CR14097 (Non-Capital Case).

309281

RAVITZ & PALLES, P.C., Chicago, Illinois, presented by Eric S. Palles and Gary J.
Ravitz, Attorneys, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $7,387.50 attorney fees for

28

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
the defense of an indigent defendant, Darryl Sutton. Indictment No. 98-CR-15711 (NonCapital Case).
309306

MCNAMARA & AUSTIN, P.C., Chicago, Illinois, presented by Edward J. Austin,
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $4,500.00 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, Hughest Gibson. Indictment No. 09-CR-18207 (NonCapital Case).

309361

KIRK WITHERSPOON, Ph.D., Moline, Illinois, presented by Pradeep Roy-Singh,
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,856.00 expert witness fees
(psychological examination) for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alex Robinson.
Indictment No. 99-CR-80012 (Non-Capital Case).

309362

STEPHEN F. POTTS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $5,083.83
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Melvin Boyd. Indictment No. 07CR-80014 (Non-Capital Case).

309363

MCNAMARA & AUSTIN, P.C. presented by Edward J. Austin, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $2,400.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Hughest Gibson. Indictment No. 09-CR-18207 (Non-Capital Case).

309394

KIRK WITHERSPOON, Ph.D., Moline, Illinois, presented by Eric J. Bell, Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,338.75 expert witness fees (psychological
examination) for the defense of an indigent defendant, Daniel R. Salgado. Indictment No.
08-CR-80002 (Non-Capital Case).

309395

JOHN F. WILK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $4,844.40
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Terrell Jackson. Indictment No. 09CR-6288 (Non-Capital Case).

309443

LINDA S. GROSSMAN, Ph.D., Northbrook, Illinois, presented by Neil A. Spector,
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $7,250.00 expert witness fees
(psychiatric/psychological evaluation) for the defense of an indigent defendant, Benjamin
Johnson. Indictment No. 06-CR-11543 (Non-Capital Case).

309444

NEIL A. SPECTOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $14,781.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Benjamin Johnson. Indictment No.
06-CR-11543 (Non-Capital Case).

309487

BRIAN B. DOSCH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $22,900.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gino Wilson. Indictment No. 06CR-540 (Non-Capital Case).

309505

TOMMY BREWER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $10,817.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Leon Shields. Indictment No. 07CR-06585-03 (Non-Capital Case).

309507

THOMAS A. MOORE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $15,230.85
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ronald Walker. Indictment No. 03CR-80001 (Non-Capital Case).

29

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
NON-CAPITAL CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
NON-CAPITAL CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$1,258,075.75
$103,899.08

DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASE
309298

GERALD P. NORDGREN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
attorney fees totaling $650.00 for the defense of an indigent defendant, Boubker Rehich.
Domestic Relations Civil Contempt Case No. 07-D-05509.

DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010
TO PRESENT:
DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASE TO BE APPROVED:

$35,652.14
$650.00

JUVENILE CASES
309237

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,075.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ayele Amos-Mandela,
Mother, re: D. Amos-Mandela, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-466 (Juvenile Case).

309238

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,106.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jessica Rivera, Mother,
re: J. Rivera and J. Russo, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-595 and 10-JA-76 (Juvenile
Cases).

309239

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$600.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alfred Powell, Sr., Father,
re: A. Powell, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-00148 (Juvenile Case).

309240

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$687.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Roderick Blake, Father, re:
the Blake children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-500 and 09-JA-589 (Juvenile Cases).

309241

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $256.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Hurst, Father, re: T. Hurst, a
minor. Indictment No. 99-JA-01771 (Juvenile Case).

309242

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $300.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Marcus Newton, Father, re: M.
Newton, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01104 (Juvenile Case).

309243

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $437.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Janice Robinson, Mother, re: D.
Trotter, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-00263 (Juvenile Case).

309244

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $337.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Perfecto Ortega, Father, re: E.
Ortega, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00677 (Juvenile Case).

30

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309245

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $537.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Whirl, Jr., Father, re: J.
Whirl, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-220 (Juvenile Case).

309246

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $737.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cassandra Barker, Mother, re: the
Basemore children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-00716, 06-JA-00717, 06-JA-00718
and 07-JA-00306 (Juvenile Cases).

309247

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $287.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, T. Jones, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00861 (Juvenile Case).

309248

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$731.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Darren Leonard, Father, re:
the Leonard children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-282 and 10-JA-283 (Juvenile
Cases).

309249

MICHAEL J. VITALE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $750.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Bridges, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-102 (Juvenile Case).

309250

COLLEEN R. DALY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $565.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nolan Adams, Sr., Father, re: the
Adams children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-410 and 10-JA-411 (Juvenile Cases).

309251

COLLEEN R. DALY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $647.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Crockett, Father, re: the
Crockett children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-430, 10-JA-431, 10-JA-432, 10-JA-433
and 10-JA-434 (Juvenile Cases).

309252

COLLEEN R. DALY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $607.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Edward Butler, Father, re: C. King,
a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-32 (Juvenile Case).

309253

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,152.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Deanna Bryce, Guardian,
re: C. Saavedra, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JD-137 and 10-JD-0344 (Juvenile Case).

309254

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $268.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jose Burgos, Father, re: the Burgos
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-00087 and 08-JA-00657 (Juvenile Cases).

309255

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,288.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ira Saposnik, Father, re: S.
Saposnik, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-736 (Juvenile Case).

309256

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $937.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Lowe, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00799 (Juvenile Case).

31

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309257

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $212.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Derrick Williams, Father, re: D.
Jones, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1532 (Juvenile Case).

309258

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $350.00 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, N. Sutton-Wilson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00011
(Juvenile Case).

309259

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $892.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jamal Burnett, Father, re: the
Burnett children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-299 and 10-JA-300 (Juvenile Cases).

309260

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $750.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Darion Fitts, Father, re: D. Fitts and
A. Jackson, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00591 and 09-JA-00592 (Juvenile Cases).

309261

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $293.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, I. Hobbs, a
minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1242 (Juvenile Case).

309262

MARCIE CLAUS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $618.75 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Elias Lopez, Father, re: A. Lopez, a minor.
Indictment No. 94-JA-3250 (Juvenile Case).

309263

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,075.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Larry Basemore, Father, re: the
Barker and Basemore children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-716, 06-JA-717, 06-JA-718,
07-JA-306 and 08-JA-765 (Juvenile Cases).

309264

CHRISTINE S. MARSHALL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$487.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carmello Munoz, Father, re:
the Munoz children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00321 and 08-JA-00322 (Juvenile
Cases).

309265

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $75.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cherida Reynolds, Mother,
Contemnor. Indictment No. 10-MC1-600618 (Juvenile Case).

309266

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$732.23 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Otis Culpepper, Father, re:
O. Culpepper, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-201 (Juvenile Case).

309267

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,571.03 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Felicia Kimber, Mother,
re: the Adams children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1067 and 04-JA-1068 (Juvenile
Cases).

309269

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,242.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Manuel Willis, Father, re: the Willis
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-674 and 09-JA-675 (Juvenile Cases).

32

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309270

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $631.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Floyd Tillis, Father, re: L. Hopkins, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-64 (Juvenile Case).

309271

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,436.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Brenda Wright, Guardian,
re: S. Shaw, a minor. Indictment No. 95-JA-05319 (Juvenile Case).

309272

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,225.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Joyce, Father, re: the Joyce
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-239, 10-JA-240 and 10-JA-241 (Juvenile Cases).

309273

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,237.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Bland
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-1562, 05-JA-869 and 05-JA-870 (Juvenile
Cases).

309274

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $275.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ahmad McIntosh, Father, re: J.
Littleton, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-708 (Juvenile Case).

309275

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $262.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Bridgewater, Father, re: V.
Bourne, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-235 (Juvenile Case).

309276

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $750.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, David Seaborg, Father, re: W.
Hollatz, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-906 (Juvenile Case).

309277

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,100.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carolyn Suttle Ernest, Mother, re:
J. Morrow, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00371 (Juvenile Case).

309278

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $387.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sullie Boston, Father, re: S. Boston,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-934 (Juvenile Case).

309282

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $357.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, M. WilsonSmith, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1554 (Juvenile Case).

309283

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $435.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michelle Steward, Mother, re: D.
Steward, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-767 (Juvenile Case).

309284

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $532.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kevin Madison, Sr., Father, re: K.
Madison, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-162 (Juvenile Case).

33

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309285

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $607.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Alexander, Father, re: K.
Peppers, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-747 (Juvenile Case).

309286

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $975.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Hill, a minor. Indictment No.
09-JD-02195 (Juvenile Case).

309287

MARI-ROSE MCMANUS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$400.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Bridgett Boyd, Mother, re:
L. Wilson, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-408 (Juvenile Case).

309288

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $331.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Araceli Lopez, Mother, re: D. Morales, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-1014
(Juvenile Case).

309289

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $443.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kristin Oborski, Mother, re: K.
Gutierrez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-303 (Juvenile Case).

309290

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $412.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lucero Diaz, Mother, re: L. Diaz
and A. Scales, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-578 and 07-JA-579 (Juvenile Cases).

309291

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $350.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Payton Tisby, Father, re: C. Larkin,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-653 (Juvenile Case).

309292

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,937.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, P. Capote, a minor.
Indictment No. 10-JD-30014 (Juvenile Case).

309293

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,016.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Barbara and Sandy Hall,
Parents, re: S. Hall, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JD-4699 (Juvenile Case).

309294

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $431.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Shantiel Thomas, Mother, re: D. Thomas, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA1038 (Juvenile Case).

309295

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $562.50 attorney fees for the
defense of indigent defendants, H. House and D. Luckett, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA381 and 09-JA-1004 (Juvenile Cases).

309296

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $356.25 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Dampier,
Townes and Wilson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-00501, 05-JA-00502 and
05-JA-00503 (Juvenile Cases).

34

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309297

STUART JOSHUA HOLT, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$562.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, John Armstead, Father, re:
J. Tisley, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-00461 (Juvenile Case).

309299

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $500.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Tanika Humphries, Mother, re: the Patterson children, minors. Indictment
Nos. 09-JA-1035, 09-JA-1036, 09-JA-1037, 09-JA-1038, 09-JA-1039, 09-JA-1040 and
10-JA-256 (Juvenile Cases).

309305

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $612.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Mathis, Father, re: A.
Mathis, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-390 (Juvenile Case).

309307

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $406.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Howard Junious, Father, re: the
Junious children, minors. Indictment Nos. 99-JA-967 and 99-JA-2530 (Juvenile Cases).

309308

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $725.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Stewart
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 96-JA-2255, 96-JA-2256, 96-JA-2257, 96-JA-2259 and
96-JA-2260 (Juvenile Cases).

309309

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $437.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Wright
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-01120 and 09-JA-01121 (Juvenile Cases).

309310

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $512.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Dina Kuper, Mother, re: N. Kuper,
a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-01109 (Juvenile Case).

309311

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $456.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Janey Espronceda, Mother, re: J.
Espronceda, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-990 (Juvenile Case).

309312

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $387.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Roseanne Murphy, Mother, re: C.
Hymond, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00075 (Juvenile Case).

309313

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$512.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Luz Pina, Mother, re: M.
Favela, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-850 (Juvenile Case).

309314

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$462.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Franklin Hackman, Sr.,
Father, re: F. Hackman, a minor. Indictment No. 02-JA-1086 (Juvenile Case).

309315

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $312.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S. Hardy, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00780 (Juvenile Case).

35

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309316

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,675.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Juan Melendez, Father,
re: B. Melendez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-449 (Juvenile Case).

309317

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,437.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Eliazar Recendiz, Father,
re: the Recendiz children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-150, 10-JA-151 and 10-JA-152
(Juvenile Cases).

309318

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $718.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Pierre Martin, Father, re: the Martin
and Williams children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-506, 09-JA-507, 09-JA-508, 09JA-509 and 09-JA-510 (Juvenile Cases).

309319

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $525.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Peeples,
a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00324 (Juvenile Case).

309320

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $481.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Miguel Zambrano, Father, re: M.
Zambrano, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00671 (Juvenile Case).

309321

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $885.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Caprise Manney, Mother, re: N.
Manney, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-2077 (Juvenile Case).

309322

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $393.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cesar Becerra, Father, re: the
Becerra children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00074 and 08-JA-00075 (Juvenile
Cases).

309323

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $568.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Polk, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-554 (Juvenile Case).

309324

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $487.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Laveda Dennis, Mother, re: Z.
Dennis, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00171 (Juvenile Case).

309325

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $462.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Laveda Dennis, Mother, re: T.
Dennis, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-707 (Juvenile Case).

309326

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $547.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nathaniel Boyce, Sr., Father, re: N.
Boyce, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-644 (Juvenile Case).

309327

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $540.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Arthetta Mayfield, Mother, re: A.
Mayfield, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0424 (Juvenile Case).

36

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309328

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $489.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Demarco Ashford, Father, re: D.
Ashford, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-154 (Juvenile Case).

309329

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,872.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charles Hollins, Father, re: M.
Hollins, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-716 (Juvenile Case).

309331

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,056.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Timothy Taylor, Father,
re: T. Taylor, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01052 (Juvenile Case).

309332

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $700.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kenny Clifton, Father, re: K.
Clifton, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00192 (Juvenile Case).

309333

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $725.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. Young, a
minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-02477 (Juvenile Case).

309334

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $381.25 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Patrick Bland, Father, re: K. Bland, a minor.
Indictment No. 97-JA-03778 (Juvenile Case).

309335

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $481.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, DeShawna Bellamy, Mother, re: the
Bellamy children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-451 and 07-JA-452 (Juvenile Cases).

309336

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $706.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nickie Moore, Mother, re: the
Hopkins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-1349 and 02-JA-1350 (Juvenile Cases).

309338

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Keith McKinney, Father, re: the
McKinney children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-487, 08-JA-488 and 08-JA-490
(Juvenile Cases).

309339

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $462.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jessica Watkins, Mother, re: A.
Simmons and J. Watkins, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-533 and 10-JA-60 (Juvenile
Cases).

309340

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,200.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Barbara Hulsart-Parker,
Mother, re: the Parker children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-523, 05-JA-524, 05-JA525, 05-JA-927 and 05-JA-928 (Juvenile Cases).

309341

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $812.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the

37

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
King and Phillips children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-531, 06-JA-532 and 06-JA-533
(Juvenile Cases).
309342

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$493.79 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Vivian Sandifer,
Grandmother, re: D. Carter, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-37 (Juvenile Case).

309343

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$925.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Kidd, Father, re:
M. Ryan, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-602 (Juvenile Case).

309344

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$725.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Yvonne Kemp, Mother, re:
B. Peeples, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-324 (Juvenile Case).

309345

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$462.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Chevas Schaffer, Father, re:
K. Sutton, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-121 (Juvenile Case).

309349

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $1,012.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Juliette Brown, Mother, re: J. Brown, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-807
(Juvenile Case).

309350

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $2,027.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Patricia Paige, Mother, re: L. Paige, a minor. Indictment No. 00-JA-1633
(Juvenile Case).

309351

CHRISTINE S. MARSHALL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$370.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ray Yarbrough, Father, re:
R. Yarbrough, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-547 (Juvenile Case).

309352

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $443.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Shelly Collins, Mother, re: S.
Collins, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-958 (Juvenile Case).

309353

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,987.50
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, William Delay and Charles Moore,
Fathers, re: R. Caige and G. Moore, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-553 and 10-JA-554
(Juvenile Cases).

309354

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $152.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jose Juarez, Father, re: the West
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-1726 and 02-JA-1727 (Juvenile Cases).

309355

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $870.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Reimundo Dominguez, Father, re:
the Dominguez and Garcia children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-610, 10-JA-611, 10JA-612, 10-JA-613 and 10-JA-614 (Juvenile Cases).

38

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309356

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $287.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Donna Chamorro, Mother, re: R.
Chamorro, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JD-3992 (Juvenile Case).

309357

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $687.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Bell and
Perteet children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-425, 05-JA-426 and 05-JA-427 (Juvenile
Cases).

309358

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $668.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, David Konrath, Father, re: the
Konrath children, minors. Indictment Nos. 99-JA-1733, 99-JA-1734 and 99-JA-1736
(Juvenile Cases).

309359

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $398.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Shawn Brown, Father, re: L.
Brown, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-580 (Juvenile Case).

309360

STUART J. HOLT, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,075.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Derrick Faulkner, Father, re: D.
Faulkner, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00189 (Juvenile Case).

309364

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $490.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gregory Robinson, Father, re: the
Robinson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-00217 and 02-JA-00218 (Juvenile
Cases).

309365

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $200.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jearlene Hall, Mother, re: S. Hall, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-896 (Juvenile Case).

309366

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jerome Atwood, Father, re: the
Atwood children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-36, 10-JA-37 and 10-JA-38 (Juvenile
Cases).

309367

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $762.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, DeAngelo Bridges, Father, re: A.
Bridges, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00102 (Juvenile Case).

309368

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $437.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Laura Cerza, Mother, re: D. Cerza
and A. Davila, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-278 and 10-JA-571 (Juvenile Cases).

309369

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $406.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Frederick Pettis, Father, re: R.
Pettis, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-1006 (Juvenile Case).

309370

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $400.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Carradine, a minor. Indictment
No. 10-JD-02331 (Juvenile Case).

39

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309371

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $300.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, N. Binion, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-374 (Juvenile Case).

309376

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,381.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Maria Joseph, Mother, re:
E. Calixte and H. Joseph, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-788 and 10-JA-249 (Juvenile
Cases).

309378

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Billops, Father, re: A.
Ford, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-306 (Juvenile Case).

309379

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,029.84
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Matthew E. Horton, Father, re: the
Horton children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-354, 07-JA-355 and 08-JA-809 (Juvenile
Cases).

309381

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $530.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jaime Feria, Father, re: G. Feria, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-664 (Juvenile Case).

309382

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $392.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tenisha Offord, Mother, re: R.
Blackman, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-654 (Juvenile Case).

309383

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $397.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, C. Jones, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-601 (Juvenile Case).

309384

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $817.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Albert Smith, Father, re: the Smith
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-1248 and 07-JA-33 (Juvenile Cases).

309385

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $573.04
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tiffany Neealy, Mother, re: the
Neealy children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1084 and 04-JA-1085 (Juvenile Cases).

309387

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $550.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, David Ward, Father, re: V.
Compos, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-463 (Juvenile Case).

309388

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $556.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carlo Martinez, Father, re: M.
Martinez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-918 (Juvenile Case).

309389

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,518.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Andre Redmond, Father, re: D.
Redmond, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-527 (Juvenile Case).

40

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309390

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $725.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Rosie Guider, Mother, re: M.
Guider, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00515 (Juvenile Case).

309392

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $812.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jacqueline Kaminski, Mother, re: E.
Elem, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00121 (Juvenile Case).

309393

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,775.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Houston
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00044 and 09-JA-00553 (Juvenile Cases).

309396

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $587.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D.
Montgomery, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00350 (Juvenile Case).

309402

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $745.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, LaVince McDowell, II, Father, re:
L. McDowell, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0065 (Juvenile Case).

309404

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $537.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Direll Baker, Father, re: J. Baker, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-358 (Juvenile Case).

309406

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $212.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, M. Griffin, a
minor. Indictment No. 02-JA-1084 (Juvenile Case).

309408

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $225.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Wherry
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1247 and 06-JA-523 (Juvenile Cases).

309409

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tomeka Williams, Mother, re: the
Green children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-322 and 07-JA-323 (Juvenile Cases).

309411

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Teosha Ford, Mother, re: T. Hardin,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-115 (Juvenile Case).

309412

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $323.48
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Pamela Rivera Jones, Mother, re:
M. Rivera, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-211 (Juvenile Case).

309413

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $900.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Howell Petty, Father, re: N.
Brunson, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-911 (Juvenile Case).

309414

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $323.04
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Herbert Johnson, Father, re: the
Johnson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-1106 and 07-JA-1108 (Juvenile Cases).

41

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309415

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,072.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, August Fryer, Mother, re: the Fryer
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-1223 and 05-JA-1225 (Juvenile Cases).

309416

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $630.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Y. Guy, a
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-279 (Juvenile Case).

309417

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $668.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ashna Hopkins, Father, re: A.
Hopkins, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-999 (Juvenile Case).

309418

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $624.90
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alvin Lashley, Father, re: the
Lashley children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-17 and 09-JA-20 (Juvenile Cases).

309419

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $825.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. Thompson, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00743 (Juvenile Case).

309420

RAYMOND A. MORRISSEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$612.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jacque McGraw, Father, re:
J. McGraw, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-112 (Juvenile Case).

309421

RAYMOND A. MORRISSEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$737.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Givens, Father, re:
S. Givens, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-699 (Juvenile Case).

309422

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $400.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Dianna Meeks, Mother, re: L. Jordan and P. Kruger, minors. Indictment Nos.
97-JA-2076 and 97-JA-2078 (Juvenile Cases).

309423

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $462.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Rashad Green, Father, re: K. Green,
a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-577 (Juvenile Case).

309424

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $425.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gregory Lawson, Father, re: J.
Lawford, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-01243 (Juvenile Case).

309425

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $412.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, E. McGee, a minor. Indictment No.
10-JD-02265 (Juvenile Case).

309426

RAYMOND A. MORRISSEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$987.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Renee Roman, Mother, re:
A. Mejias, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-740 (Juvenile Case).

42

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309427

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $512.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tony Smith, Father, re: L. Mason, a
minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-2423 (Juvenile Case).

309428

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $225.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Deondre Bullock, Father, re: D.
Bullock, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-769 (Juvenile Case).

309429

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $832.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christine Fisher, Mother, re: K.
Fisher, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-510 (Juvenile Case).

309430

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $237.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Parker, Sr., Father, re: A.
Parker, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-1044 (Juvenile Case).

309431

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $487.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, William Harris, Father, re: the
Harris children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-31 and 08-JA-32 (Juvenile Cases).

309432

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $287.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Reginald Young, Father, re: J.
Young, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-81 (Juvenile Case).

309433

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $875.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tondra Kornegay, Guardian, re: S.
Kornegay, a minor. Indictment No. 99-JA-897 (Juvenile Case).

309445

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $600.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S. Nava, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-242 (Juvenile Case).

309446

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $493.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, George Pinkston, Father, re: K.
Pinkston, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-959 (Juvenile Case).

309447

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $850.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, L. Strong, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-1069 (Juvenile Case).

309448

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $662.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Derrick Harris, Father, re: the
Wesley children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-887 and 08-JA-888 (Juvenile Cases).

309449

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,125.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Yunus Muhammed, Father, re: A.
Muhammed, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-919 (Juvenile Case).

309450

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $758.68 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Raymond Hopgood, Sr., Father, re: the

43

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Hopgood children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00016 and 08-JA-00017 (Juvenile
Cases).
309451

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $735.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Leonard Jenkins, Sr., Father, re: L.
Jenkins-Eaton, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JD-279 (Juvenile Case).

309452

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,155.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S. Trunnel, a minor.
Indictment Nos. 10-JD-953, 10-JD-1261 and 10-JD-1264 (Juvenile Cases).

309453

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $868.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kathy Dukes, Guardian, re: J.
Dukes, a minor. Indictment No. 02-JA-00855 (Juvenile Case).

309454

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $918.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Horace Knight, Father, re: A.
Garnett and M. Knight, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-657 and 07-JA-660 (Juvenile
Cases).

309455

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $462.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Hopkins,
a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-782 (Juvenile Case).

309461

PETER J. WOODS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,087.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kristopher Wickert, Father, re: G.
Belcastro, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00652 (Juvenile Case).

309462

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $238.38
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Elizabeth Morales, Mother, re: D.
Diaz, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-192 (Juvenile Case).

309463

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $187.94
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antoine Rogers, Father, re: the
Rogers children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-1136 and 08-JA-1137 (Juvenile Cases).

309464

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $318.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kenneth Barnes, Father, re: T.
Barnes, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-971 (Juvenile Case).

309465

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,106.25 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Adams
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1067 and 04-JA-1068 (Juvenile Cases).

309466

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $243.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cobin Sykes, Father, re: C. Sykes
and C. Vinson, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-476 and 09-JA-477 (Juvenile Cases).

309467

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,375.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Cornelius Ross and

44

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Anthony Troupe, Fathers, re: the Wright children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1120
and 09-JA-1121 (Juvenile Cases).
309468

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $250.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Clesi, Father, re: A. Clesi, a
minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-773 (Juvenile Case).

309469

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $650.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Henry
Turner, Father and a Disabled Person, re: J. Turner, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-02177
(Juvenile Case).

309470

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,081.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Brian Johnson, Father, re:
J. Nejad, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-589 (Juvenile Case).

309471

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $215.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lance Wrightsell, Father, re: L.
Wrightsell, a minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-02401 (Juvenile Case).

309472

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $250.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ardie Taylor, Father, re: A. Taylor,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-436 (Juvenile Case).

309473

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $640.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Denise Guy, Mother, re: the Guy
children, minors. Indictment No. 94-JA-01233 and 94-JA-06418 (Juvenile Cases).

309474

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $362.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nour Hadid, Mother, re: the Hadid
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-295 and 09-JA-296 (Juvenile Cases).

309475

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $445.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Traziel Jones, Father, re: R. Jones, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-0701 (Juvenile Case).

309476

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $336.96
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Wilbertina Thomas, Mother, re: A.
Cherry, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-1356 (Juvenile Case).

309477

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $493.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, K. Harris, a
minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1264 (Juvenile Case).

309478

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $345.00
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Theotis Hopkins and Dexter Johnson,
Fathers, re: the Watkins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-00301, 05-JA-00302
and 05-JA-01299 (Juvenile Cases).

45

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309479

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $937.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, R. Jackson,
a minor. Indictment No. 96-JA-4442 (Juvenile Case).

309480

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,185.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. Gilkey, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0878 (Juvenile Case).

309481

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $520.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Mary Lawrence, Mother, re: A.
Lawrence, a minor. Indictment No. 94-JA-09939 (Juvenile Case).

309482

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,310.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, M. Madkins and
M. White, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0603 and 09-JA-0604 (Juvenile Cases).

309483

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $460.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, John Gates, Father, re: S. Gates, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00789 (Juvenile Case).

309484

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $437.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christine Kozlowski, Mother, re:
the Henderson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-00503 and 02-JA-00504 (Juvenile
Cases).

309489

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $665.00 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, M. Weeks, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-362 (Juvenile
Case).

309490

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,387.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Reginald Courtland, Father, re: the
Courtland children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-387, 10-JA-389 and 10-JA-392
(Juvenile Cases).

309491

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $347.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sharon White, Guardian, re: the
White and Wordlaw children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-587, 02-JA-588, 02-JA-589
and 02-JA-590 (Juvenile Cases).

309492

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $631.25 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Eric Plunkett, Father, re: the Plunkett
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-406 and 08-JA-407 (Juvenile Cases).

309493

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $593.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jacob Tolbert, Sr., Father, re: J.
Tolbert, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00282 (Juvenile Case).

309494

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,262.05 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nicole Mahone, Mother,

46

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
re: the Taylor children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00442, 09-JA-00443, 09-JA-00444
and 10-JA-00603 (Juvenile Cases).
309495

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $562.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Elaine Rice, Mother, re: the Rice
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-666 and 08-JA-667 (Juvenile Cases).

309496

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $187.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gwendolyn McAbee, Adoptive
Mother, re: the McAbee children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-550 and 06-JA-551
(Juvenile Cases).

309497

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,112.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Trina Stanil, Mother, re: the
Alpuche, Davis and Moore children, minors. Indictment Nos. 01-JA-1277, 07-JA-333, 07JA-334 and 10-JA-436 (Juvenile Cases).

309498

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $300.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Doris Johnson, Mother, re: the Bills,
Clerk and Washington children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-686, 06-JA-687, 06-JA-688
and 06-JA-859 (Juvenile Cases).

309499

LAROMA WHITE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $581.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alfredo Amadeo, Father, re: M.
Ward, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-121 (Juvenile Case).

309500

LAROMA WHITE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $635.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Darnell Davis, Father, re: D. Davis, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-456 (Juvenile Case).

309501

LAROMA WHITE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,812.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Thomas Collins, Sr., Father, re: the
Collins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-902 and 02-JA-903 (Juvenile Cases).

309502

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,037.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Hudson, a
minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-01139 (Juvenile Case).

309503

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Robert and Ronena Davis, Parents, re:
the Davis children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-00251 and 05-JA-00630 (Juvenile
Cases).

309504

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $612.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S. Bates, a
minor. Indictment No. 95-JA-01079 (Juvenile Case).

309506

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $650.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nancy Ruiz, Mother, re: A. Johnson,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-952 (Juvenile Case).

47

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309508

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $312.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Pedro Castro, Father, re: D. Flores,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-27 (Juvenile Case).

309509

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $200.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Evon McCallister, Mother, re: J.
McCallister, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1528 (Juvenile Case).

309510

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,405.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charity Young, Mother, re: K.
Young, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-325 (Juvenile Case).

309511

MARIE J. TARASKA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $502.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Raymond Scott, Father, re: J. ScottHendrix, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-736 (Juvenile Case).

309512

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $775.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Pedro Donaldson, Father, re: A.
Donaldson, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00850 (Juvenile Case).

309513

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,205.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jarmarie Arrington,
Father, re: T. Hoover, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-571 (Juvenile Case).

JUVENILE CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
JUVENILE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$2,834,562.78
$149,035.86

SPECIAL COURT CASES
309374

ROCK FUSCO, LLC, John J. Rock, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of
the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $25,219.86 attorney fees
and expenses regarding Lambert v. Jamison, et al., Case No. 08-C-3613 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 09-CH-526), for the month of August
2010. To date $239,261.67 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation
Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T.
Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

309375

DONOHUE, BROWN, MATHEWSON & SMYTH, LLC, Richard H. Donohue, Timothy
L. Hogan and Cortney S. Closey, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the
State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $18,479.18 attorney fees
and expenses for the representation of Larry Rogers, Jr. and Scott Guetzow regarding
Victor Santana v. Cook County Board of Review, et al., Case No. 09-C-5027 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 09-CH-39547), for the period of
October 14, 2009 through April 16, 2010. To date zero dollars have been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meetings of September 2,
2010 and October 6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

309397

HINSHAW & CULBERTSON, LLP, Matthew P. Walsh, II, James M. Lydon, Steven L.
Klaczynski, Frank J. Marsico and Bernard E. Jude Quinn, Special State's Attorneys,

48

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $24,841.08 attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case
No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH13088), for the period of June 1 through September 25, 2010 (attorney fees), and June 30
through September 13, 2010 (expenses). To date $1,454,276.60 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
309398

309399

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State’s Attorney, presented by the Office of the State’s
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $780.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Daniel P. Duffy’s fee
petition, for the period of July 7-23, 2010. To date $22,185.00 has been paid. This invoice
was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010. Please
forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,744.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Hinshaw &
Culbertson’s fee petition, for the period of July 25 through August 12, 2010. To date
$59,216.00 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at
its meeting of October 6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.,
Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309400

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $687.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Alastar S. McGrath’s fee
petition, for the period of July 12 through August 23, 2010. To date $24,185.00 has been
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October
6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney,
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309401

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,113.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Alastar S.
McGrath’s fee petition, for the period of August 2-20, 2010. To date $24,185.00 has been
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October
6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

49

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
309403

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $854.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of K & L Gates’ fee petition,
for the period of June 29 through July 15, 2010. To date $114,204.00 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309405

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $836.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of K & L Gates’ fee petition,
for the period of June 29 through July 15, 2010. To date $114,204.00 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309407

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $815.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of K & L Gates’ fee petition,
for the period of June 29 through July 16, 2010. To date $114,204.00 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309410

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,186.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of K & L Gates’
fee petition, for the period of June 29 through July 21, 2010. To date $114,204.00 has been
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October
6, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309434

LOCKE, LORD, BISSELL & LIDDELL, LLP, Plaintiffs’ Class Counsel, presented by the
Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $186,299.42
fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds, USDC No.
69-C-2145. This lawsuit was filed in 1969 against the County of Cook, the Cook County
Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds among other defendants,
and rises out of Plaintiffs’ class action lawsuit asserting violations of the First Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution. On September 14, 2010, the Cook County Recorder of Deeds and

50

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Plaintiffs entered into a Supplemental Relief Order (SRO), which is designed to improve the
hiring practices of the Recorder’s Office and resolve all pending civil matters involving any
alleged violation of the Shakman Consent Decrees. On October 11, 2010, Plaintiffs filed an
Unopposed Motion to Award Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and costs with respect to the SRO
for the Recorder of Deeds. On October 13, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier
entered an order approving fees and expenses in the amount of $154,029.30 for attorney
fees and $32,270.12 in costs payable by Cook County and Plaintiffs’ counsel, Locke, Lord,
Bissell & Liddell, LLP for allocation among the Plaintiffs’ counsel law firms. To date,
Locke, Lord, Bissell & Liddell, LLP has been paid zero dollars. Locke, Lord, Bissell &
Liddell, LLP has accumulated total fees and expenses of $186,299.42 as of today’s date.
Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
309435

CARDELLE SPANGLER, Compliance Administrator for the Recorder of Deeds, presented
by the Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$12,340.00 fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds,
USDC No. 69-C-2145. On July 30, 2010, the United States District Court entered a
Supplemental Relief Order (SRO) for the Recorder of Deeds in this matter requiring the
appointment of a Compliance Administrator. As part of the SRO, Cook County is required
to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Compliance Administrator for the
Recorder of Deeds. Settlement of this matter was approved by the Finance Committee's
Subcommittee on Litigation at its meeting of July 21, 2010. On October 18, 2010,
Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses for the
3rd Unopposed Petition in the amount of $12,340.00 made payable to Cardelle Spangler,
Compliance Administrator for the Cook County Recorder of Deeds. To date, Ms. Spangler
has been paid $33,306.55. Ms. Spangler has accumulated total fees and expenses of
$45,646.55 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador, Assistant
State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309436

LOCKE, LORD, BISSELL & LIDDELL, LLP, Plaintiffs’ Class Counsel, presented by the
Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $274,463.95
fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Sheriff of Cook County, USDC No. 69-C2145. This lawsuit was filed in 1969 against the County of Cook, the Cook County Board
of Commissioners and the Sheriff of Cook County among other defendants, and arises out
of Plaintiffs’ class action lawsuit asserting violations of the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution. On October 30, 2008, the Sheriff of Cook County and Plaintiffs’ entered into
a Supplemental Relief Order (SRO), which is designed to improve the hiring practices of the
Sheriff’s Office and resolve all pending civil matters involving any alleged violation of the
Shakman Consent Decrees. On October 11, 2010, plaintiffs filed an Unopposed Motion to
award Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and costs with respect to the SRO for the Sheriff of Cook
County. On October 13, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order
awarding attorneys fees and expenses in the amount of $272,945.40 for attorney fees and
$1,518.55 in costs payable by Cook County to Plaintiffs’ counsel, Locke, Lord, Bissell &
Liddell, LLP. To date, Locke, Lord, Bissell & Liddell, LLP has been paid $509,963.68 in
fees and expenses. Plaintiffs’ counsel has accumulated total fees and expenses of
$784,427.63 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador, Assistant
State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

51

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
309437

MARK J. VOGEL, Complaint Administrator, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $35,379.00 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. On February 12, 2009,
the United States District Court entered an Order appointing Mark J. Vogel the Post
Supplemental Relief Order Complaint Administrator for Cook County. As part of this
Order, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the
Complaint Administrator for Cook County. On October 15, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney
I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses for the 37th Unopposed Petition
in the amount of $35,379.00 made payable to Mark J. Vogel, Complaint Administrator. To
date, Mark J. Vogel has been paid $653,541.11. Mr. Vogel has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $690,282.11 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State's Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309438

MARK J. VOGEL, Complaint Administrator, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,362.00 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. On February 12, 2009,
the United States District Court entered an Order appointing Mark J. Vogel the Post
Supplemental Relief Order Complaint Administrator for Cook County. As part of this
Order, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the
Complaint Administrator for Cook County. On October 13, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney
I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses for the 38th Unopposed Petition
in the amount of $1,362.00 made payable to Mark J. Vogel, Complaint Administrator. To
date, Mark J. Vogel has been paid $653,541.11. Mr. Vogel has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $654,903.11 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State's Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309439

MARY T. ROBINSON, Compliance Administrator, presented by the Office of the State’s
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $67,321.65 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. The Board of
Commissioners approved a Supplemental Relief Order (SRO) on November 29, 2006. On
November 30, 2006, the United States District Court entered a SRO in this matter requiring
the appointment of a Compliance Administrator. As part of the SRO, Cook County is
required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Compliance Administrator.
On October 18, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees
and expenses for the 61st Unopposed Petition in the amount of $67,321.65 made payable to
Mary T. Robinson, Compliance Administrator. To date, the Compliance Administrator has
been paid $3,958,237.61. The Compliance Administrator has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $4,025,559.26 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

52

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

309440

CLIFFORD L. MEACHAM, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County,
presented by the Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$25,015.00 fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C2145. On October 30, 2008, the United States District Court entered a Supplemental Relief
Order (SRO) for the Sheriff of Cook County in this matter requiring the appointment of a
Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. As part of the SRO for the
Sheriff of Cook County, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses
incurred by the Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. On October 14,
2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses
for the 46th Unopposed Petition in the amount of $25,015.00 made payable to Clifford L.
Meacham, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. To date, Mr.
Meacham has been paid $2,381,822.32. Mr. Meacham has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $2,406,837.32 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309441

HINSHAW & CULBERTSON, LLP, James M. Lydon, Special State's Attorney, presented
by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$36,239.68 attorney fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Sheriff of Cook County,
et al., USDC No. 69-C-2145 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case
No. 06-CH-25576), for the period of August 19 through September 27, 2010 (attorney fees),
July 7 through September 21, 2010 (expenses), and $5,545.00 for HR Consultant Expert
services fees for Lori K. Pedelty of Pedelty Enterprises, LLC for the period of September
17-28, 2010. To date $1,129,122.27 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the
Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of October 6, 2010. Please forward the check to
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for
transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY, STEELE AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

SPECIAL COURT CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
SPECIAL COURT CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$7,761,913.28
$714,975.82

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE COURT ORDERS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 2
Your Committee has considered the following numbered and described bills and recommends that they
be, and upon the adoption of this report, approved and that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer
are authorized and directed to issue checks to said claimants in the amounts recommended.
309235

HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $153,718.15, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-277, for short term housing and
living assistance for minors charged with delinquency petitions in juvenile court for the

53

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County, for the
month of August 2010 (326-298 Account). (See Comm. No. 308627). Purchase Order No.
171829, approved by County Board July 21, 2009.
309268

PAPER SOLUTIONS, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, submitting invoice totaling $105,000.00, full
payment for Contract No. 09-84-101 Rebid, for printing of personal issue tickets for the
City of Chicago for the Clerk of the Circuit Court (335-240 Account). Purchase Order No.
168865, approved by County Board September 1, 2009.
CHAIRMAN DALEY VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309279

CIBER, INC., Dallas, Texas, submitting invoice totaling $226,760.00, part payment for
Contract No. 06-43-575, for Phase Three of the implementation of a countywide enterprise
Web portal system using Plumtree Enterprise Web Suite software for the Bureau of
Technology, for the months of February through April 2010 (717/009-579 Account). (See
Comm. No. 309172). Purchase Order No. 170336, approved by County Board December 6,
2005, July 22, 2008 and July 21, 2009.

309280

KANKAKEE COUNTY SHERIFF'S POLICE DEPARTMENT, Kankakee, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $229,200.00, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-335, to
provide boarding, lodging and medical expenses of male detainees for the Department of
Corrections, for the month of August 2010 (239-231 Account). (See Comm. No. 308728).
Purchase Order No. 171273, approved by County Board November 4, 2009.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309300

GATEWAY FOUNDATION, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$246,414.24, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-118, to provide substance abuse
treatment services for the Pre-Release and Day Reporting Centers for the Sheriff’s
Department of Community Supervision and Intervention (D.C.S.I.), for the month of
September 2010 (236-298 Account). (See Comm. No. 308799). Purchase Order No.
172015, approved by County Board April 1, 2009 recessed and reconvened on April 2, 2009
and March 16, 2010.

309347

APPRISS, INC., Louisville, Kentucky, submitting invoice totaling $262,000.00, full
payment for Contract No. 08-41-377, for maintenance and support services of the
Automated Victim Information and Notification system (VINE) for the Bureau of
Technology, Office of the Chief Information Officer, for the period of August 1, 2010
through July 31, 2011 (009-260 Account). Purchase Order No. 173106, approved by
County Board September 17, 2008.

309485

ISAAC RAY CENTER, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting two (2) invoices totaling
$256,112.83, part payment for Contract No. 10-41-68, for mental health services for
residents of the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, for the periods of July 16-31, 2010,
and August 16-31, 2010 (440-272 Account). (See Comm. No. 308699). Purchase Order
No. 173342, approved by County Board December 15, 2009.

309488

PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO, Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $1,100,340.00, part payment for operating expenses for the Richard J. Daley
Center, for the month of October 2010 (499-470 Account). Approved by County Board
November 19, 2009.

54

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

COMMISSIONER GOSLIN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE, MOVED
APPROVAL OF THE BILLS AND CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 3
Your Committee has considered the following communications from State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez with
reference to the workers' compensation claims hereinafter mentioned.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by
the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks to the Workers' Compensation
Commission to be paid from the Workmen's Compensation Fund.
309301

REUNETTA L. ROSS, in the course of her employment as a Record Center Clerk for the
Clerk of the Circuit Court sustained accidental injuries on January 9, 2009. The Petitioner
was moving a ladder when the ladder fell on her foot, and as a result she injured her toe
(fractured fifth toe of the left foot). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita
Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order
No. 09-WC-18464 in the amount of $1,000.00 and recommends its payment. This
settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Donna Zadeikis, Law Firm of
Kenneth B. Gore, Ltd.

309302

DAVID KUSTABORDER, in the course of his employment as a Civil Process Server for
the Sheriff’s Court Services Division sustained accidental injuries on July 3, 2006. While
serving a summons at a residence, the Petitioner slipped on stairs and fell, and as a result he
injured his head and knee (post concussion syndrome causing vision problems and
headaches; left knee internal derangement and a tear to the medial meniscus). Prior/pending
claims: 06/06/06 case settled for $7,915.95, and 08/14/07 case is pending. State's Attorney,
Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and
Order No. 07-WC-20751 in the amount of $39,492.08 and recommends its payment.
(Finance Subcommittee September 1, 2010). Attorney: James E. Tyrrell, Law Firm of Ross
Tyrrell, Ltd.
COMMISSIONER SCHNEIDER VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309303

FELICIA DOUGLAS, in the course of her employment as a Correctional Officer for the
Department of Corrections sustained accidental injuries on December 23, 2009. The
Petitioner injured her shoulder while attempting to open a malfunctioning cell door (partial
thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon; left shoulder rotator cuff tendonitis).
Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers'
Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 10-WC-01059 in the
amount of $16,817.42 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within the grant of
authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's
Office. Attorney: Brian P. Mack, Mack Law Group, P.C.

309304

JOHN FRAZIER, in the course of his employment as a Correctional Officer for the
Department of Corrections sustained accidental injuries on March 15, 2008. The Petitioner
was restraining a combative detainee, and as a result he injured his arm (right arm radial
fracture and right Galeazzi fracture). Prior/pending claims: 01/20/00 cases settled for

55

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
$4,000.00, and 09/08/04 case settled for $9,350.00. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is
submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08WC-13175 in the amount of $40,236.49 and recommends its payment. (Finance
Subcommittee September 1, 2010). Attorney: Brian P. Mack, Mack Law Group, P.C.
309330

FELICIA BLANKS, in the course of her employment as a Counselor for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center sustained accidental injuries on October 31, 2006. The
Petitioner intervened in an altercation between two residents, and as a result she injured
her neck and knee (cervical strain with degenerative disc disease with mild cervical
foraminal stenosis at the level C4-C5, bilateral foraminal stenosis at C5-C6 and a right
knee sprain with residual patellar pain). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney,
Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and
Order No. 07-WC-08113 in the amount of $8,000.00 and recommends its payment. This
settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Gary P. Stone, Law Firm of
Karchmar & Stone.

309337

JAMES COLEMAN, in the course of his employment as a Counselor for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center sustained accidental injuries on January 28, 2008. The
Petitioner intervened in an altercation between two residents, and as a result he injured his
elbow (left elbow trauma resulting in traumatic olecranon bursitis). Prior/pending claims:
07/31/07 case settled for $20,859.89. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting
Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08-WC-33681 in
the amount of $1,000.00 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within the grant
of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's
Attorney's Office. Attorney: James B. Hardy, Law Firm of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo,
Ltd.

309346

JAMES G. COLLINS, in the course of his employment as an Electrical Technician for the
Department of Facilities Management sustained accidental injuries on May 18, 2009. The
Petitioner injured his shoulder while lifting a television (left shoulder rotator cuff tear).
Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers'
Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 09-WC-43207 in the
amount of $42,043.54 and recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee September
1, 2010). Attorney: Joel J. Block, Law Firm of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

309348

ANN L. FULTON, in the course of her employment as a Clerk for the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge sustained accidental injuries on October 1, 2001.
The Petitioner experienced numbness and tingling in her hands due to repetitive activities
at work, and as a result she injured both of her hands (bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome).
Prior/pending claims: 12/03/96 case settled for $17,850.36. Following a series of trials
regarding TTD and permanency (07/25/07 and 04/20/09), the Arbitrator found that the
Petitioner’s injury arose out of and in the course of her employment. The Arbitrator
awarded the Petitioner $15,541.46, which represents a 10% loss of use of each hand. The
Petitioner was also awarded $8,275.46 in medical expenses, penalties and attorney’s fees,
which the Respondent appealed. As a result, on March 8, 2010, the Commission affirmed
and adopted the Arbitrator’s decision. Following trial, the parties agreed to settle this
matter for $5,192.00, which represents an additional 2.5% loss of use of each hand.
State’s Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers’ Compensation Commission

56

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Decision of Arbitrator, Award No. 02-WC-37556 in the amount of $5,192.00 and
recommends its payment. This decision is within the grant of authority conveyed by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Louis
G. Atsaves, Law Firm of Chase & Werner, Ltd.
COMMISSIONER SCHNEIDER VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

$4,522,287.86
$153,781.53

COMMISSIONER GORMAN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MORENO,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS. THE
MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 4
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting the County Board to authorize subrogation recoveries.
Your Committee, concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management
recommends the authorization of subrogation recoveries be granted.
309459

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $1,729.00. Claim No. 20050458, Sheriff’s Court Services Division.
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

309460

Atlas Van Lines, Inc. (Owner), Trinity O. Provin (Driver), 1212
St. George Street, Evansville, Indiana 47703
Sheriff’s Court Services Division vehicle
Keith Morrison, Unit #2965
August 31, 2010
2104 South Marshall Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois
(211-444 Account).

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $6,471.07. Claim No. 20050407, Department of Telecommunication
Operations.
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Galen Green (Owner), Antonio Lampley (Driver), 11351 South
Parnell Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60628
Department of Telecommunication Operations vehicle
Ralph E. Maiorano, Jr., Plate #M130681
September 10, 2009
I-94 Southbound near 138th Street, Chicago, Illinois
(016-444 Account).

Subrogation Recoveries Approved Fiscal Year 2010 To Present:
Subrogation Recoveries To Be Approved:

$69,299.22
$8,200.07

57

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE SUBROGATION RECOVERIES. THE MOTION
CARRIED.

Section 5
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting that the County Board authorize payment of said claims.
Your Committee, concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management,
recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by the adoption of this report,
authorized and directed to issue checks to claimants in the amounts recommended.
309456

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Self-Insurance
Program Settlement Claim payment of $1,968.52. Claim No. 97008307, Highway
Department.
Claimant:
Claimant's Vehicle:
Date of Accident:
Location:

American Family Insurance, as Subrogee of James Duhr, 302
North Walbridge, Madison, Wisconsin 53714
2003 Ford Expedition XLT
February 10, 2010
515 Schaumburg Road, Streamwood, Illinois

Highway Department snowplow crew was removing snow and ice near 515 Schaumburg Road in
Streamwood. A piece of concrete from the roadway struck Claimant’s unoccupied, legally parked vehicle
causing damage to the interior and the right rear quarter panel window (542-846 Account). Investigated
by Cambridge Integrated Services Group. We concur and recommend payment of the above charge.
309457

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Self-Insurance
Program Settlement Claim payment of $4,003.46. Claim No. 97008441, Highway
Department.
Claimant:
Property Damage:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Crown Packaging Technology, Inc., 11535 South Central Avenue,
Alsip, Illinois 60803
Electric entrance gate
April 21, 2010
11535 South Central Avenue, Alsip, Illinois

Highway Department maintenance crew was repairing a sunken sewer at 11535 South Central Avenue in
Alsip. A heavy equipment operator moved equipment off the roadway onto a private driveway, and
struck Claimant’s electric entrance gate (542-846 Account). Investigated by Cambridge Integrated
Services Group. We concur and recommend payment of the above charge.
309458

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Self-Insurance
Program Settlement Claim payment of $4,172.52. Claim No. 97008255, Highway
Department.
Claimant:
Claimant's Vehicle:

Esurance Insurance Company, as Subrogee of Ernesto Sandoval,
P.O. Box 2890, Rocklin, California 95677
2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse

58

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Our Driver:
Prior Accidents:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Frank Teutonico, Plate #M08745
0
January 7, 2010
151st Street near 82nd Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois

The Claimant was traveling westbound on 151st Street near 82nd Avenue in Orland Park. The Highway
Department snowplow crossed into Claimant’s lane, and struck the vehicle causing damage to the right
front fender and tire (542-846 Account). Investigated by Cambridge Integrated Services Group. We
concur and recommend payment of the above charge.
Self-Insurance Claims Approved Fiscal Year 2010 To Present:

$50,363.74

Self-Insurance Claims To Be Approved:

$10,144.50

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA, MOVED APPROVAL
OF THE SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAM SETTLEMENT CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA, MOVED APPROVAL
OF THE SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAM SETTLEMENT CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Section 6
Your Committee has considered the following communications from State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez.
Your Committee, concurring in the recommendations of the State's Attorney, recommends that the
County Comptroller and County Treasurer prepare checks in the amounts recommended in order that the
payments may be set in accordance with the request of the State's Attorney upon proper release from the
Office of the State's Attorney.
309372

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $750.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding Paul
Long v. CCDOC, Case No. 10-M1-16484. This matter involves an allegation of lost
property at the Jail. The matter has been settled for the sum of $750.00, which is within the
grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's
Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of $750.00, made payable to Paul
Long. Please forward the check to Ronald Weidhuner, Assistant State’s Attorney, for
transmittal.

309373

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $6,250,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit
regarding Maria Rodriguez v. County of Cook, Case No. 07-L-13386. We have settled this
alleged medical negligence case for the sum of $6,250,000.00, which is within the authority
granted to this office by the Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Litigation at its meeting
of July 21, 2010. State's Attorney recommends payment of $6,250,000.00, made payable in
five (5) separate checks as follows:
1. the first check in the amount of $1,391,028.65, payable to Mitchell Hoffman & Wolf,
L.L.C.;
2. the second check in the amount of $852,000.00 made payable to the Illinois Department
of Healthcare and Family Services;

59

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

3. the third check in the amount of $3,006,971.35 made payable to Harris N.A., Trustee of
the Angel Gutierrez OBRA ’93 Trust;
4. the fourth check in the amount of $841,500.00 made payable to PASSCorp; and
5. the fifth check in the amount of $158,500.00 made payable to Pacific Life and Annuity
Services, Inc.
Please forward the checks to Thomas A. Rieck, Assistant State’s Attorney, Medical Litigation Section, for
transmittal.
Commissioner Peraica voted No on the above item.
309377

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County
to accept Proposed Settlement of $1,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit
regarding Stanley Norris v. Godinez, Case No. 09-C-6048. This matter involves an
alleged civil rights violation at the Jail. The matter has been settled for the sum of
$1,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of
$1,000.00, made payable to Stanley Norris. Please forward the check to Maureen O.
Hannon, Assistant State’s Attorney, Conflicts Counsel Unit, for transmittal.

309380

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County
to accept Proposed Settlement of $9,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit
regarding Goree v. Cappello, Case No. 09-C-5031. This matter involves an alleged civil
rights violation involving the Sheriff’s Police Department that occurred at the Plaintiff’s
home. A settlement conference was held and Plaintiff, through her counsel, agreed to
settle this case for the sum of $9,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's
Attorney recommends payment of $9,000.00, made payable to Jessica Goree and
Kenneth Flaxman, P.C., her attorney. Please forward the check to Anthony E. Zecchin,
Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

309386

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County
to accept Proposed Settlement of $24,500.00 for the release and settlement of suit
regarding Olu Akindele v. Officer Hendrix, et al., Case No. 09-C-3600. This matter
involves a civil rights lawsuit regarding allegations of a failure to protect and failure to
intervene which Plaintiff claimed occurred while he was a pretrial detainee at the
Department of Corrections. The matter has been settled for the sum of $24,500.00, which
is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to
the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of $24,500.00, made
payable to Olu Akindele and Elliot R. Zinger and Associates, his attorney. Please
forward the check to Aaron R. Bond, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

309391

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County
to accept Proposed Settlement of $11,500.00 for the release and settlement of suit
regarding Jose Franklin v. Dart, et al., Case No. 09-C-809. This matter involves
allegations regarding deliberate medical indifference resulting in an alleged violation of
Plaintiff’s civil rights while Plaintiff was a pretrial detainee at the Department of
Corrections. The matter has been settled for the sum of $11,500.00, which is within the

60

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's
Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of $11,500.00, made payable to
Jose Franklin and DePaul University Legal Clinic, his attorney. Please forward the check
to Aaron R. Bond, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
Proposed Settlements Approved Fiscal Year 2010 To Present:
Proposed Settlements To Be Approved:

$22,940,019.49
$6,296,750.00

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA, MOVED
APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Section 7
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting that the County Board authorize payment of said claims.
Your Committee concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management,
recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by the adoption of this report,
authorized and directed to issue checks to claimants in the amounts recommended.
309486

PATIENT/ARRESTEE SETTLEMENT PROGRAM CLAIMS. The Department of Risk
Management is submitting invoices totaling $119,774.92, for payment of medical bills for
services rendered to patients while in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff's Office.
Their services were rendered under the Patient/Arrestee Settlement Program (542-274
Account). Bills were approved for payment after an audit by Cambridge Integrated
Services Group, and by the Department of Risk Management, who recommends payment
based on Cook County State's Attorney's Legal Opinion No. 1879, dated July 14, 1987.
Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller in accordance with the attached report
prepared by the Department of Risk Management.

Total Billed
Undocumented
Unrelated
Discount
Amount Payable

Year to Date
$10,036,782.25
$0.00
$3,668,004.88
$1,160,905.59
$5,207,871.78

To Be Approved
$187,408.75
$0.00
$35,741.77
$31,892.06
$119,774.92

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA, MOVED
APPROVAL OF THE PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Section 8
Your Committee has considered the following communications received from the Employees' Injury
Compensation Committee requesting that the County Board authorize payment of expenses regarding
claims of Cook County employees injured while in the line of duty.

61

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Your Committee, concurring in said requests, recommends that the County Comptroller and County
Treasurer be, and upon the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks in the amounts
recommended to the claimants.
309442

THE EMPLOYEE'S INJURY COMPENSATION COMMITTEE, submitting invoice
totaling $84,948.59, for payment of medical bills for Workers' Compensation cases
incurred by employees injured on duty. Individual checks will be issued by the
Comptroller in accordance with the attached report prepared by the Department of Risk
Management, Workers' Compensation Unit. This request covers bills received and
processed from October 20 through November 3, 2010.

Employees' Injury Compensation Claims Approved Fiscal Year 2010
To Present:

$7,108,521.58

Employees' Injury Compensation Claims To Be Approved:

$84,948.59

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER PERAICA, MOVED APPROVAL
OF THE EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Section 9
Your Committee was presented with the Revenue Report for the period ended September 30, 2010 for the
Corporate, Public Safety and Health Funds, as presented by the Bureau of Finance.
COMMISSIONER GOSLIN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER GORMAN, MOVED TO RECEIVE
AND FILE THE REVENUE REPORT. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Section 10
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
308437

SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONTRACT INCREASE AND EXTENSION
(PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM). Transmitting a Communication, dated July 20,
2010 from R. Steve Edmonson, Chief Information Officer:
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $1,200,000.00 and extend
for seven (7) months, Contract No. 08-41-247 with Sentinel Technologies, Inc., Downers
Grove, Illinois, for the countywide computer hardware maintenance agreement. (See
related Communication No. 308438).
Board approved amount 04-09-08:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$ 9,342,312.00
1,200,000.00
$10,542,312.00

The Bureau of Technology requests the contract extension and increase to
provide additional time and resources while preparing a Request for Proposal

62

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
(RFP) of the countywide computer hardware maintenance. The expiration date
of the current contract is January 31, 2011.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,200,000.00. Contract extension: February 1, 2011 through
August 31, 2011. (009-441 Account).
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 9/1/10.
COMMISSIONER BEAVERS, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE, MOVED TO
DEFER CONSIDERATION OF COMMUNICATION NO. 308437. THE MOTION TO DEFER
CARRIED.
308438

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY, OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER –
TRANSFER OF FUNDS. Transmitting a Communication, dated July 21, 2010 from R.
Steve Edmonson, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology:
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling
$1,200,000.00 from Account 009-260, Professional and Managerial Services to Account
009-441, Maintenance and Repair of Data Processing Equipment and Software for the
extension of Contract No. 08-41-247. (See related Communication No. 308437).
Reason:

Due to insufficient funds for the first year of the contract, a shortage has
occurred for the remaining months of the contract period. The Bureau of
Technology requires additional funds to extend Contract No. 08-41-247 for
seven (7) months while preparing a Request for Proposal (RFP) for these
services.
From Account 009-260
Services
To Account 009-441
Data Processing Equipment
and Software

1.

Total

Professional and Managerial
$1,200,000.00
Maintenance and Repair of

Total

$1,200,000.00

On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion
of funds in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that
date, and what was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
The Bureau of Technology became aware of the shortage of funds in the week of July 5-9,
2010. The balance in the account on that date was $18,858.00. The balance 30 days prior
was $18,858.00.

2.

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other
accounts that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The Bureau of Technology identified the Account 260 for this transfer on request.

3.

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be
deferred, delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority

63

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
that will result in the account that funds are transferred from 009-260 (Professional
Services).
The 260 Account is used for professional services. It was the Bureau of Technology
intention to use the $1.2 million for project management services related to the Broadband
Stimulus Grant Program. Funding for this Grant was not awarded during the first two
cycles. It is anticipated that funding for this grant will not occur during FY2010. The
Bureau of Technology seeks to reallocate these funds to the Sentinel Hardware
maintenance extension period, while an RFP is developed.
4.

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was
originally budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point
in the fiscal year.
The 260 Account is used for professional services. It was the Bureau of Technology’s
intention to use the $1.2 million for project management services related to the Broadband
Stimulus Grant Program. Funding for this Grant was not awarded during the first two
cycles. It is anticipated that funding for this grant will not occur during FY2010. The
Bureau of Technology seeks to reallocate these funds to the Sentinel Hardware
maintenance extension period, while an RFP is developed.

* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 9/1/10.
COMMISSIONER BEAVERS, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE, MOVED
TO DEFER CONSIDERATION OF COMMUNICATION NO. 308438. THE MOTION TO DEFER
CARRIED.

Section 11
Your Committee has considered the highway bills submitted by the Superintendent of Highways for
approval and payment.
Your Committee, after considering said bills, recommends that they be, and by the adoption of this report,
approved.
COMMISSIONER MORENO, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE, MOVED APPROVAL
OF THE HIGHWAY BILLS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Section 12
Your Committee has considered the following pending litigation at the request of the Chairman of the
Litigation Subcommittee.
Pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, specifically, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11): “Litigation, when an
action against, affecting, or on behalf of the particular public body has been filed and is pending in a court
or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that such an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,”
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Committee on Finance enter

64

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing Young v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 06-CV552. The motion carried and the Committee on Finance convened in Executive Session.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved to adjourn the Executive Session
and reconvene in Open Session. The motion carried and the Committee on Finance reconvened in Open
Session.
Chairman Daley announced that no action was taken; the discussion was for informational purposes only.
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE, MOVED TO
ADJOURN. THE MOTION CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Report of the Finance be
approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ZONING AND BUILDING
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Silvestri , Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Peraica, Reyes,
Schneider, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

President Stroger and Commissioner Murphy (1)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Zoning and Building, having had under consideration the matter hereinafter
mentioned, respectfully reports and recommends as follows
SECTION 1
Your Committee has considered the following numbered and described applications requesting a public
hearing before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on a request for a Special Use, Unique Use on
certain properties described therein:
307185

DOCKET NO. #8642 – WILLIE GILLESPIE, Owner, 587 East 219th Street, Chicago
Heights, Illinois 60411, Application (No. SU-10-07; Z10034). Submitted by Same.
Seeking a SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the I-3 Industrial District for continued use of
two story single family residence as previously amortized under SU-82-21 in Section 27 of
Bloom Township. Property consists of approximately .88 acre located on the north side of
East 219th Street approximately 1200 feet west of Cottage Grove Avenue in Bloom

65

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Township, County Board District #6. Intended use: For continued use of the two (2) story
single family residence previously amortized under SU-82-21. Recommendation: That
the application be granted.
The Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals to whom said applications was referred, submitted a
Communication setting forth its findings and recommendations following public hearings held thereon,
and recommended that said application be granted subject to conditions as stated in the findings.
Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Moreno moved the approval of Communication
No. 307185. The motion carried.
SECTION 2
Your Committee has considered the following numbered and described applications requesting a public
hearing before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on a request for a Special Use, Unique Use on
certain properties described therein:
307668

DOCKET NOS. #8648/8649 - ELIZABETH RICH, Owner, 9222 North Greenwood,
DesPlaines, Illinois 60616, Application (No. SU-10-09 & V-10-33; Z10041). Submitted
by Joseph Ash, 77 West Washington, Suite #1211, Chicago, Illinois 60602. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for the
operation of a spiritual reader and religious advisor in a single family residence with an on
premise identification sign and a Variation to reduce front yard setback from 30’ to 7.45’
(exist) for on premise identification sign for a spiritual reader and religious advisor in a
single family residence (If granted under companion Su-10-09). Property consists of
approximately 0.25 of an acre located on the west side of Greenwood Avenue,
approximately 182 feet north of Church Street in Maine Township, County Board District
#9. Intended use: Home occupation as a Spiritual reader and Religious Advisor.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.

The Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals to whom said applications was referred, submitted a
Communication setting forth its findings and recommendations following public hearings held thereon,
and recommended that said application be granted subject to conditions as stated in the findings.
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Goslin moved the approval of Communication
No. 307668. The motion carried.
SECTION 3
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendation is as follows:
309514

DOCKET #8684– M. LOWISZ, Owner, Application (No. V-10-57): Variation to reduce
right yard setback from 10 feet to 5 feet (existing); reduce left side yard setback from 10
feet to 4 feet; and reduce lot width from 60 feet to 50 feet (existing); and reduce lot area
from 10,000 square feet to 6,285 square feet (existing) for a detached garage in the R-5
Single Family Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.14 of
an acre, located on the east side of Lotus Avenue, approximately 247 feet south of 49th
Street in Stickney Township, County Board District #11. Recommendation: That the
application be granted.
Conditions:

None

66

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Objectors:
309515

None

DOCKET #8687– G. YEAGER, Owner, Application (No. V-10-58): Variation to reduce
left side yard setback from 10 feet to 2 feet; and reduce rear yard setback from 5 feet to 2
feet for a proposed shed in the R-5 Single Family Residence District. The subject property
consists of approximately 0.23 of an acre, located on the south side of 128th Street,
approximately 325 feet east of Mobile Avenue in Worth Township, County Board District
#6. Recommendation: That the application be granted, subject to conditions.
Conditions:

That the applicant provides adequate drainage and flowage as the shed is
located on the drainage easement.

Objectors:

None

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Steele moved, the approval of Communication
Nos. 309514 and 309515. The motion carried.
SECTION 4
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendation is as follows:
309516

CHICAGO TITLE & TRUST COMPANY AS TRUSTEE UNDER TRUST #1086079,
Owner, 171 North Clark Street, Suite #575, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Application (No. SU10-22; Z10079). Submitted by Lucas Fuksa, Attorney, on behalf of Wilkins Brothers
Family Limited Partnership, 70 West Erie Street, 2nd floor, Chicago, Illinois 60654.
Seeking a SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the I-1 Restricted Industrial District for motor
freight terminal (storage, service, dispatch of semi-tractor trailer trucks) in Section 26 of
Elk Grove Township. Property consists of approximately 1 acre located on the northeast
corner of Hamilton Road and Weiler Road in Elk Grove Township, Cook County Board
District #17. Intended use: Storage, service, dispatch of semi-tractor trailer trucks no
physical improvements proposed.

309517

KRZYSZTOF LUPA, Owner, 4824 South Lotus Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60638,
Application (No. SU-10-23; Z10080). Submitted by Same. Seeking a SPECIAL USE,
UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for continued used of an
existing two (2) dwelling unit building in Section 9 of Stickney Township. Property
consists of approximately 0.14 of an acre located on the west side of Lotus Avenue
approximately 347 feet south of 48th Street in Stickney Township, Cook County Board
District #11. Intended use: Existing two (2) dwelling unit Single Family Residence and
detached one brick garage.

309518

EDWIN M. AND MARY SUSAN KOZOYED, Owners, 7848 West 39th Street, Riverside,
Illinois 60546, Application (No. SU-10-24; Z10082). Submitted by Same. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for continued
used of an existing one bedroom rental cottage (as previously amortized under SU-80-34)
in Section 36 of Riverside Township. Property consists of approximately 1/3 of an acre
parcel located on the north side of 39th Street approximately 80 feet west of Gladstone
Avenue in Riverside Township, Cook County Board District #16. Intended use: Use of
existing one (1) bedroom rental cottage.

67

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
309519

JMS DEVELOPMENT, LLC, Owner, 4868 West Dempster Street, Skokie, Illinois 60077,
Application (No. SU-10-25; Z10085). Submitted by Conrad O. Duncker, Attorney, 258
West 31st Street, Chicago, Illinois 60616. Seeking a SPECIAL USE in the C-4 General
Commercial District for the operation of a pawn shop in an existing shopping center in
Section 15 of Maine Township. Property consists of approximately 1.4837 acres located on
the north side of Ballard Road approximately 170 feet east of Potter Road in Maine
Township, Cook County Board District #17. Intended use: Operation of a pawn shop in a
preexisting shopping center.

Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Steele, referred the New Application
Communication Nos. 309517, 309518 and 309519 to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The motion
carried.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the Report of the Zoning
& Building be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE TAX DELINQUENCY SUBCOMMITTEE
October 26, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Sims, Commissioners Butler, Murphy and Peraica (4)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Beavers and Moreno (3)

Also Present:

Stephanie Milito – Planner, Department of Planning and Economic Development;
Randy Kemmer – Assistant State’s Attorney; William Moore, Cook County Bureau of
Community Development; Charles Collins – Assistant Economic Development
Director, City of Markham; Rev. Ellis Franklin – Acting Director, Ford Heights
Community Development; Dirk Van Beek – Attorney, Village of Ford Heights

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Tax Delinquency Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to
notice on Tuesday, October 26, 2010 at the hour of 11:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County
Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Subcommittee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
307898

VILLAGE OF BRIDGEVIEW (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Steven M. Landek, Village President, Village of Bridgeview.

68

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Bridgeview.
Please consider this letter as the Village of Bridgeview’s request for Cook County to submit a “No Cash
Bid” for the following parcel:
VILLAGE OF BRIDGEVIEW
VOLUME
239

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
24-06-300-010-0000

The subject property is a vacant parcel located near 7155 West 91st Street, Bridgeview, Illinois, adjacent
to Harlem Avenue, and the Village seeks to acquire the property for street right-of-way purposes. Such
use will directly benefit the public. We have submitted a certified copy of Resolution No. 10-R-14, a
copy of the Sidwell map page of the area that includes the parcel, a current title name and judgment
search for the parcel, Title Company Certificate of Registration and photographs of the parcel. Also
submitted is a compact disc containing a copy of this letter and a spreadsheet of the volume number and
property index number for the requested parcel.
In the event this request is granted, the Village agrees to report annually to the Cook County Department
of Economic Development, informing and updating the County as to the status of the above parcel for
five (5) years, or until the intended use is complete. Additionally, the Village acknowledges that it must
retain legal counsel and will bear all legal expenses and costs to obtain the tax deed for the above parcel
and will file all appropriate documents to obtain tax exempt status for the subject property. As there are
no third party requestors involved, no information has been submitted on them.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
307898
VOLUME
239

VILLAGE OF BRIDGEVIEW
PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
24-06-300-010-0000

The subject property is a vacant parcel located near 7155 West 91st Street, Bridgeview, Illinois, adjacent
to Harlem Avenue, and the Village seeks to acquire the property for street right-of-way purposes. Such
use will directly benefit the public. We have submitted a certified copy of Resolution No. 10-R-14, a
copy of the Sidwell map page of the area that includes the parcel, a current title name and judgment
search for the parcel, Title Company Certificate of Registration and photographs of the parcel. Also
submitted is a compact disc containing a copy of this letter and a spreadsheet of the volume number and
property index number for the requested parcel.
In the event this request is granted, the Village agrees to report annually to the Cook County Department
of Economic Development, informing and updating the County as to the status of the above parcel for
five (5) years, or until the intended use is complete. Additionally, the Village acknowledges that it must
retain legal counsel and will bear all legal expenses and costs to obtain the tax deed for the above parcel
and will file all appropriate documents to obtain tax exempt status for the subject property. As there are
no third party requestors involved, no information has been submitted on them.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.

69

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307898. The motion carried.
307899

VILLAGE OF BURNHAM (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Robert E. Polk, Mayor, Village of Burnham.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Burnham.
The Village of Burnham, Cook County, Illinois, respectfully requests that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve a no cash bid for commercial vacant parcels of real estate. This Request Package
contains eight (8) Property Index Numbers (PINs):
VILLAGE OF BURNHAM
VOLUME
193
193
193
193
193
193
193
193

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
29-01-213-015-0000
29-01-213-016-0000
29-01-213-017-0000
29-01-213-018-0000
29-01-213-019-0000
29-01-213-020-0000
29-01-213-021-0000
29-01-213-022-0000

The Village of Burnham intends to use the above parcels as a parking lot for a multi-use
resource/recreational center to be developed by the Village of Burnham on the adjacent five (5) parcels of
real estate improved with an abandoned commercial building. Each of the above eight (8) PINs is each a
vacant lot continuous to each other and previously used for parking for an abandoned commercial
building previously used as a banquet hall. Each vacant lot is currently zoned commercial.
The Village of Burnham will file for tax exempt status because the Village of Burnham will retain such
eight (8) PINs for municipal use. Therefore, there is no Third Party Requestor in this Request Package.
The Village of Burnham will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs
associated with the acquisition of such eight (8) parcels.
The Village of Burnham agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No
Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is complete,
whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.

Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307899. The motion carried.
307900

VILLAGE OF Burnham (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a Communication
from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee, submitting a request
from Robert E. Polk, Mayor, Village of Burnham.

70

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Burnham.
The Village of Burnham, Cook County, Illinois respectfully requests that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve a no cash bid for an abandoned commercial building on five (5) parcels of real
estate. This Request Package contains five (5) Property Index Numbers (PINs):
VILLAGE OF BURNHAM
VOLUME
193
193
193
193
193

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
29-01-213-023-0000
29-01-213-024-0000
29-01-213-025-0000
29-01-213-026-0000
29-01-213-027-0000

The Village of Burnham intends to use the above parcels as a municipal multi-use resource/recreational
center by redeveloping an abandoned commercial building located thereon. Each of the above five (5)
parcels is improved with a portion of an abandoned commercial building previously used as a banquet
hall. The current zoning is commercial.
The Village of Burnham will file for tax exempt status because the Village of Burnham will retain such
five (5) PINs for municipal use. Therefore, there is no Third Party Requestor in this Request Package.
The Village of Burnham will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs
associated with the acquisition of such five (5) parcels.
The Village of Burnham agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No
Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is complete,
whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307900. The motion carried.
307901

VILLAGE OF BURNHAM (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Robert E. Polk, Mayor, Village of Burnham.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Burnham.
The Village of Burnham, Cook County, Illinois, respectfully requests that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve a no cash bid for a vacant parcel of real estate. This Request Package contains
one (1) Property Index Number (PIN):
VILLAGE OF BURNHAM
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

220

30-06-309-003-0000

71

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

The Village of Burnham intends to use the above parcel as landscaping for its Village hall. The parcel is
a vacant residential lot having a few pieces of toddler playground equipment on a portion of the parcel
and vacant as to the remainder of such lot. The parcel is currently zoned Residential.
The Village of Burnham will file for tax exempt status because the Village of Burnham will retain such
one (1) PIN for municipal use. Therefore, there is no Third Party Requestor in this Request Package.
The Village of Burnham will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs
associated with the acquisition of such one (1) parcel.
The Village of Burnham agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No
Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is complete,
whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307901. The motion carried.
307902

VILLAGE OF EAST HAZEL CREST (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Patricia Lazuka, Village Administrator, Village of East
Hazel Crest.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of East Hazel Crest.
I respectfully submit for your approval the Village of East Hazel Crest's request to acquire the following
three (3) vacant commercial properties in an effort to increase tax revenues and development within
Village limits. This No Cash Bid Request Package contains three (3) Property Index Numbers (PINs) as
follows:
VILLAGE OF EAST HAZEL CREST
VOLUME
216
216
216

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
29-29-300-007-0000
29-29-300-008-0000
29-29-300-011-0000

The Village of East Hazel Crest has identified that this commercial building and parking area has been
abandoned for more than a year and is currently blighted. With the recent road work improvements in
this area this property has been reduced and is deteriorating at a rate that makes it difficult to encourage
new development. The Village of East Hazel Crest would like to secure this property, make the necessary
improvements and remarket it in an effort to add to its business tax income. East Hazel Crest is a small
land locked community with a small business base. This particular property would benefit by the addition
of adjoining property (requested in a second No Cash Bid application) if it were combined to make a
more marketable site. It would assist the Village in maximizing the sales tax potential.
The Village of East Hazel Crest will file for and maintain tax exempt status for the requested property
until that time a developer is located.
There is no Third Party Request, proposal or agreement by a developer, organization or other private
party for this no-cash bid request.

72

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

The Village of East Hazel Crest will retain the legal services of Hiskes, Dillner, O'Donnell, Marovich &
Lapp, Ltd, attorneys for the Village, to obtain the tax deed and the Village will bear all legal and other
costs associated with acquisition of the parcel.
The Village of East Hazel Crest will also annually report to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development informing and updating the County as to the status of the parcel of property for five (5)
years or until the intended development is completed, whichever comes last.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307902. The motion carried.
307903

VILLAGE OF EAST HAZEL CREST (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Patricia Lazuka, Village Administrator, Village of East
Hazel Crest.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of East Hazel Crest.
I respectfully submit for your approval the Village of East Hazel Crest's request to acquire the following
two (2) land parcels in an effort to increase tax revenues and development within Village limits. This No
Cash Bid Request Package contains two (2) Property Index Numbers (PINs) as follows:
VILLAGE OF EAST HAZEL CREST
VOLUME
216
216

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER
29-29-300-012-0000
29-29-300-014-0000

The Village of East Hazel Crest has identified these lots as a potential site that would expand the size of
an existing commercial area. With the recent road work improvements in this area this property and its
adjacent commercial building, requested in a separate No Cash Bid Request Package, have been reduced
and are deteriorating at a rate that makes it difficult to encourage new development. The Village of East
Hazel Crest would like to secure this property, make the necessary improvements and remarket it in an
effort to add to its business tax income. East Hazel Crest is a small land locked community with a small
business base. These particular properties would add dimension to the commercial property that abuts
this parcel. It would assist the Village in maximizing the sales tax potential.
The Village of East Hazel Crest will file for and maintain tax exempt status for the requested property
until that time a developer is located.
There is no Third Party Request, proposal or agreement by a developer, organization or other private
party for this no-cash bid request. The Village of East Hazel Crest will retain the legal services of Hiskes,
Dillner, O'Donnell, Marovich & Lapp, Ltd, attorneys for the Village, to obtain the tax deed and the
Village will bear all legal and other costs associated with acquisition of the parcel.

73

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The Village of East Hazel Crest will also annually report to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development informing and updating the County as to the status of the parcel of property for five (5)
years or until the intended development is completed, whichever comes last.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307903. The motion carried.
307904

VILLAGE OF FORD HEIGHTS (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Charles R. Griffin, Mayor, Village of Ford Heights.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Ford Heights.
The Village of Ford Heights requests the listed parcels of land in the Cook County Board of
Commissioners No Cash Bid Program.
VILLAGE OF FORD HEIGHTS
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016
016

32-23-303-048-0000
32-23-303-049-0000
32-23-303-050-0000
32-23-414-036-0000
32-23-414-040-0000
32-23-414-041-0000
32-23-414-046-0000
32-23-415-012-0000
32-23-415-013-0000
32-23-416-036-0000
32-23-417-018-0000
32-23-418-024-0000
32-23-418-025-0000
32-23-418-026-0000
32-23-418-033-0000
32-23-418-034-0000

This request package contains 16 Property Index Numbers (PINs). The requested parcels of land will be
used to build affordable housing in a blighted section of the community. The Village of Ford Heights will
immediately file for tax exempt status on these parcels of land. Attorney Dirk Van Beek, our village
attorney, will obtain the tax deed and the Village will bear all legal and other costs associated with the
acquisition of the parcels.
The Village of Ford Heights agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development,
No Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel within the five (5) year time frame allotted to develop
this property.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.

74

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307904 as Amended, except for the following PIN Numbers, which have been Withdrawn: 3223-415-012-0000, 32-23-418-024-0000, 32-23-418-025-0000, 32-23-418-026-0000.
The motion
carried.
307905

CITY OF MARKHAM (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a Communication
from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee, submitting a request
from David Webb, Jr., Mayor, City of Markham.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the City of Markham.
The City of Markham, Illinois would like to take advantage of the no-cash-bid process of the Cook
County Board in acquiring various contiguous tax delinquent parcels from 161st Street to 162nd Street
between Dixie Highway and Leavitt Avenue.
I therefore respectfully request that the Cook County Board consider and approve the City of Markham’s
request for participation of the following seven (7) parcels sought to be acquired. The parcels are listed
by Volume and Property Index Numbers (PINs) as follows:
CITY OF MARKHAM
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

211
211
211
211
211
211
211

29-19-125-021-0000
29-19-126-016-0000
29-19-126-017-0000
29-19-126-018-0000
29-19-126-022-0000
29-19-126-023-0000
29-19-127-025-0000

In further support to this request, please find submitted herewith a certified copy of Resolution No. 10-R429 passed by the City Council formally requesting participation in the No-Cash-Bid Program.
The City intends to offer the seven (7) properties acquired to a developer for commercial/industrial use.
Such development will serve to restore these properties as viable tax revenue-producing sources,
contribute to an increase of the tax base of the City and contribute to an increased flow of State sales tax
with its concomitant benefit to the City.
The City does not have a third party developer to transfer title at this time. The City will file for tax
exempt status on all properties because it will retain the PINs until the tax deeds are conveyed to a
developer.
Additionally, the City will benefit through the elimination of eyesores scattered around the requested
parcels and a hope for revitalization of the quality of life in the community. The proposed development
will also generate employment opportunities for City residents.
The developer (to be determined) will be responsible for all legal activity and expense necessary to obtain
tax deeds to the property and will bear all legal and other costs associated with the acquisition.

75

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The City will submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development annual reports on the
status of acquired property for five (5) years after acquisition or until development of those properties is
complete.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307905. The motion carried.
307906

CITY OF MARKHAM (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a Communication
from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee, submitting a request
from David Webb, Jr., Mayor, City of Markham.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the City of Markham.
Please accept this letter as an official request from the City of Markham expressing interest in
participating in the Cook County No Cash Bid Program. The Property Index Numbers PIN(s) being
requested are:
CITY OF MARKHAM
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

032
032

28-22-407-035-0000
28-22-407-036-0000

This request package contains two (2) PINs. The intended use of each PIN is as follows:
28-22-407-035-0000 (Industrial Quonset Hut) the City will benefit from acquiring this parcel by having
the ability to remove the old dilapidated structure on the parcel. The City plans to clear and prepare the
site for development within six (6) months of deed acquisition.
28-22-407-036-0000 (Industrial Quonset Hut) the City will benefit from acquiring this parcel by having
the ability to remove the old dilapidated structure on the parcel. The City plans to clear and prepare the
site for development within six (6) months of deed acquisition.
Please note that the City of Markham will file for tax exempt status on all above parcels PINs. The above
PINs will be used for municipal use or maintained until the tax deed(s) are conveyed to a developer.
The City of Markham is requesting the previously mentioned PINs, and has no third party request for the
current No Cash Bid Program.
The City of Markham will retain legal counsel in order to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other
costs assisted with acquisition of the parcels.
The City of Markham agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No
Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is complete, or
whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.

76

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Stephanie Milito, Planner, Department of Planning and Economic Development, noted that the
Department of Planning and Economic Development does not recommend PIN Number 28-22-407-0350000.
Commissioner Peraica requested that the Property Index Numbers for the City of Markham be considered
individually.
On a voice vote, the motion to Approve PIN Number 28-22-407-035-0000 carried. Commissioner
Peraica voted no.
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved the Approval of PIN Number
28-22-407-036-0000. The motion carried.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 307906. The motion carried.
307907

CITY OF MARKHAM (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a Communication
from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee, submitting a request
from David Webb, Jr., Mayor, City of Markham.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the City of Markham.
Please accept this letter as an official request from the City of Markham expressing interest in
participating in the Cook County No Cash Bid Program. The Property Index Numbers PIN(s) being
requested are:
CITY OF MARKHAM
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

029
032
032
032
032
032
033
033
033
033
033
033
033
033
033
033
033
211
211

28-13-401-015-0000
28-23-128-002-0000
28-23-128-004-0000
28-23-301-034-0000
28-23-302-008-0000
28-23-304-013-0000
28-24-411-033-0000
28-24-411-034-0000
28-24-413-035-0000
28-24-413-036-0000
28-24-413-037-0000
28-24-413-038-0000
28-24-413-040-0000
28-24-413-041-0000
28-24-413-042-0000
28-24-413-043-0000
28-24-413-044-0000
29-19-127-025-0000
29-19-402-003-0000

This request package contains 19 PINs.

77

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Please note that the City of Markham will file for tax exempt status on all above parcels PINs. The above
PINs will be used for municipal use or maintained until the tax deed(s) are conveyed to a developer.
The City of Markham is requesting the previously mentioned PINs, and has no third party request for the
current No Cash Bid Program.
The City of Markham will retain legal counsel in order to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other
costs assisted with the acquisition of the parcels.
The City of Markham agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No
Cash Bid reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is complete, or
whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 307907 as Amended, except for the following PIN Number, which has been
Withdrawn: 29-19-127-025-0000. The motion carried.
307908

VILLAGE OF MAYWOOD (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Jason Ervin, CPA, Village Manager, Village of Maywood.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Maywood.
The Village of Maywood is respectfully submitting the two (2) Property Index Numbers (PINs) for No
Cash Bid purchase by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
These parcels have been evaluated and found to be viable, marketable properties to be acquired through
the Cook County No Cash Bid process. The aforementioned properties are all located in key areas for
redevelopment as outlined in the 2008 Comprehensive plan. These properties will greatly impact
economic development opportunities within the Village of Maywood.
VILLAGE OF MAYWOOD
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

161
165

15-10-231-008-0000
15-14-327-012-0000

Please find below the intended use for each PIN(s).
Vol. 161 PIN 15-10-231-008-0000 - This parcel is currently a vacant garage in Maywood’s Business
Industrial Park. The building has been abandon for over five (5) years. The 2008 Comprehensive plan
calls for this building to be redeveloped to attract a small warehousing or auto repair facility, these
intended uses would bring investment to this otherwise blighted building.
Vol. 165
PIN
15-14-327-012-0000 - This parcel is classified 5-97 with special commercial
improvements that are prorated with one or more parcels. This PIN contains a small part of an abandon
storage shed. The intended use is retail/restaurant use that compliments the adjacent Medical district.

78

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The Village of Maywood will file for tax exempt status for the properties and will retain the properties for
municipal use until such time as the Properties are reconveyed for redevelopment. The Village does not
currently have any third party request on any of the PIN(s) submitted for No Cash Bid processing.
The Village upon approval by the County Board will direct the Village Attorney to obtain the tax deeds to
the properties and shall bear all legal and other cost associated with acquisition of the properties.
The Village of Maywood agrees to comply with all reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years
or until development is complete, whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid
Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307908. The motion carried.
307909

Peraica, moved the Approval of

VILLAGE OF MAYWOOD (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Jason Ervin, CPA, Village Manager, Village of Maywood.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Maywood.
The Village of Maywood is respectfully submitting the following three (3) Property Index Numbers
(PINs) for No Cash Bid purchase and approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
These parcels have been evaluated and found to be viable, marketable properties to be acquired through
the Cook County No Cash Bid process. The aforementioned properties are all located in key areas for
redevelopment as outlined in the 2008 Comprehensive plan. These properties will greatly impact
economic development opportunities within the Village of Maywood.
VILLAGE OF MAYWOOD
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

164
165
165

15-14-107-001-0000
15-15-100-027-0000
15-15-100-028-0000

Please find below the intended use for each PIN.
Vol. 164 PIN 15-14-107-001-0000 - The current use of this property is vacant land. The parcel is
located in a prime retail district that the comprehensive plan calls for retail/commercial development. The
Village intends to redevelop this site into a retail use that would promote further development with in this
district.
Vol. 165 PIN 15-15-100-027-0000 - current use is vacant land. Proposed use is a retail development the
compliments the adjacent Illinois Prairie Bike Path.
Vol. 165 PIN 15-15-100-028-0000 - current use is vacant land. Proposed use is a retail development the
compliments the adjacent Illinois Prairie Bike Path.

79

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The Village of Maywood will file for tax exempt status for the properties and will retain the properties for
municipal use until such time as the Properties are reconveyed for redevelopment. The Village does not
currently have any third party request on any of the PINs submitted for No Cash Bid processing.
The Village upon approval by the County Board will direct the Village Attorney to obtain the tax deeds to
the properties and shall bear all legal and other cost associated with acquisition of the properties.
The Village of Maywood agrees to comply with all reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years
or until development is complete, whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid
Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307909. The motion carried.
307910

Peraica, moved the Approval of

VILLAGE OF PALOS PARK (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from John F. Mahoney, Mayor, Village of Palos Park.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Palos Park.
The Village of Palos Park is interested in receiving a No Cash Bid for property located in our municipality.
This Request Package contains one (1) Property Index Number (PIN).
VILLAGE OF PALOS PARK
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

152

23-23-302-002-0000

The parcel is currently vacant land. The Village of Palos Park will use the property as a park or associated
recreational use.
The Village of Palos Park will file for tax exempt status as the parcel will be for municipal use.
The Village of Palos Park will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs
associated with acquisition of the parcel.
The Village of Palos Park will agree to submit, to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development, No Cash Bid Reports on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until development is
complete, whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307910. The motion carried.
307911

Peraica, moved the Approval of

VILLAGE OF PHOENIX (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Terry R. Wells, Village President, Village of Phoenix.

80

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Phoenix.
The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the Village of Phoenix’s desire to participate in the Cook
County No Cash Bid program. The Village is interested in acquiring certain properties located within
Phoenix that are delinquent in real estate taxes or special assessments for two (2) or more years, pursuant
to 35 ILCS 200/21-90.
Please accept this request to obtain the following 24 vacant unimproved residential properties:
VILLAGE OF PHOENIX
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208
208

29-16-104-002-0000
29-16-104-016-0000
29-16-105-051-0000
29-16-106-020-0000
29-16-106-021-0000
29-16-106-034-0000
29-16-106-035-0000
29-16-106-036-0000
29-16-106-037-0000
29-16-106-055-0000
29-16-110-008-0000
29-16-110-009-0000
29-16-110-010-0000
29-16-110-011-0000
29-16-114-030-0000
29-16-114-032-0000
29-16-114-033-0000
29-16-119-011-0000
29-16-119-052-0000
29-16-120-026-0000
29-16-120-033-0000
29-16-127-045-0000
29-16-203-017-0000
29-16-203-018-0000

The Village intends to use each of these 24 vacant unimproved residential properties for residential
redevelopment in order to expand tax revenues by building residential dwellings on the parcels.
Currently, there is no third-party-applicant for any of the parcels.
The Village agrees to report the status of each parcel to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development annually for five (5) consecutive years or until the intended use is complete, whichever is
last. Also, the Village will apply for tax exempt status on each parcel once a tax deed is obtained until a
developer is designated.
The Village has retained Hiskes, Dillner, O’Donnell, Marovich & Lapp, and will bear all costs to proceed
to tax deed and perform all other legal and other activities associated with this program.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
81

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved the approval of
Communication No. 307911 as Amended, except for the following PIN Numbers, which have been
Withdrawn: 29-16-105-051-0000, 29-16-106-0937-0000, 29-16-203-017-0000 and 29-16-203-18-0000.
The motion carried.
307912

CITY OF ROLLING MEADOWS (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Sarah Phillips, City Manager, City of Rolling Meadows.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the City of Rolling Meadows.
I am writing to state the City of Rolling Meadows’ interest in receiving a No Cash Bid for the following
one (1) Property Index Numbers (PIN) for No Cash Bid purchase and approval by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners.
CITY OF ROLLING MEADOWS
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

150

02-36-100-010-0000

This request package contains one (1) PIN.
The property is a swath of green space that is situated in the heart of the City of Rolling Meadows’
downtown area. The property is sandwiched between the Rolling Meadows Shopping Center and Salt
Creek and leads directly into Kimball Hill Park to the north. The property was originally platted and
designated for storm water detention for the development of the shopping center. A large majority of this
parcel is located within the 100 year floodplain with much of that floodplain in designated floodway.
Consequently, this parcel is land-locked, inaccessible and undevelopable and will remain green, open
space. It is anticipated that the parcel will remain City property whether it be retained by the City of
Rolling Meadows or be conveyed to the Rolling Meadows Park District. The parcel itself will remain and
be maintained as green space and added to the Salt Creek green belt that traverses through the heart of the
City of Rolling Meadows.
The City of Rolling Meadows will file for tax exempt status for this property while the City retains the
property or the Park District when and if it is conveyed the property.
The City of Rolling Meadows will use its legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other
costs associated with acquisition of the parcel.
The City of Rolling Meadows agrees to submit, to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development, No Cash Bid Reports on the status of the parcel for five (5) years as required by the Cook
County No Cash Bid Ordinance.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307912. The motion carried.

82

Peraica, moved the Approval of

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
307913

VILLAGE OF SCHILLER PARK (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Anna Montana, Mayor, Village of Schiller Park.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Schiller Park.
This letter is to express the Village of Schiller Park’s interest in receiving a No Cash Bid for one (1)
parcel located in Schiller Park. The Property Index Number (PIN) of the parcel requested is:
VILLAGE OF SCHILLER PARK
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

064

12-16-400-010-0000

This Request Package contains one (1) PIN (the “Subject Property”). The PIN requested is currently a
vacant parcel in the Village of Schiller Park. It is the intent of the Village of Schiller Park, as part of its
overall economic development strategy to acquire the Subject Property and return it to a beneficial use for
the citizens of the Village. The Subject Property is in the floodplain and shall be used for flood
management.
The Village of Schiller Park has retained legal counsel in order to obtain the tax deed and will bear all
costs associated with the acquisition of the parcel. In accordance with the requirements of the Cook
County No Cash Bid Ordinance, the Village of Schiller Park will submit to the Cook County Department
of Economic Development a No Cash Bid Report on the status of each parcel for five (5) years or until
development is complete, whichever comes last.
In accordance with the requirements of the Cook County No Cash Bid Program, the Village of Schiller
Park hereby certifies that it does not have an identified third party requestor associated with the filing of
this application and will accordingly take the necessary steps to have the Subject Property declared tax
exempt for municipal use and will submit to the Cook County Board of Review a Real Estate Exemption
Complaint for tax exempt status.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307913. The motion carried.
307914

Peraica, moved the Approval of

VILLAGE OF SKOKIE (NO CASH BID REQUEST). Transmitting a Communication
from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee, submitting a request
from George Van Dusen, Mayor, Village of Skokie.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Skokie.
The Village of Skokie is interested in participating in receiving a No Cash Bid for the following Property
Index Number (PIN) parcel:
VILLAGE OF SKOKIE
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

83

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
a.

10-23-127-001-0000

This request package contains one (1) PIN. The Village of Skokie intends to retain ownership of this PIN
and dedicate it as right-of-way.
PIN 10-23-127-001-0000 is a 4.60-foot-wide by 116.03-foot-long parcel of land that lies along the south
side of the 3930 block of Lee Street. The northern 61.40 feet of Lee Street is dedicated as Village-owned
and Village-maintained right-of-way. The parcel is presently used as parkway and driveway access to a
single-family residence at 3951 Lee Street. The Village of Skokie would like to acquire this parcel in
order to dedicate it as public-right-of-way.
The Village of Skokie intends to file tax exempt status the above mentioned PIN upon its acquisition
because this parcel will be incorporated into the Village’s street network. The Village has no intent of
conveying this PIN to a third party. This parcel will be dedicated by the Village as public right-of-way.
The Village of Skokie will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs
associated with acquisition of the aforementioned parcel. The Village agrees to submit, to the Cook
County Department of Economic Development, a No Cash Bid Report on the status of the parcel for five
(5) years.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307914. The motion carried.
307915

Peraica, moved the Approval of

VILLAGE OF THORNTON (NO CASH BID REQUEST).
Transmitting a
Communication from Deborah Sims, Chairman, Tax Delinquency Subcommittee,
submitting a request from Jason Wicha, Administrator, Village of Thornton.

Re: No Cash Bid Request Package for the Village of Thornton.
The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the Village of Thornton’s desire to participate in the Cook
County No Cash Bid program. The Village is interested in acquiring certain property located within
Thornton that is delinquent in real estate taxes or special assessments for two (2) or more years, pursuant
to 35 ILCS 200/21-90.
Please accept this request to obtain the following one (1) Property Index Numbers (PIN) for vacant,
abandoned and improved commercial property.
VILLAGE OF THORNTON
VOLUME

PROPERTY INDEX NUMBER

219

29-34-107-032-0000

The property contains a municipal utility facility. Currently, there is no third party applicant for any of
the parcels.
The Village agrees to report the status of the parcel to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development annually for five (5) consecutive years or until the intended use is complete, whichever is
last. Also, the Village will apply for tax exempt status on the parcel once a tax deed is obtained.

84

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
The Village has retained Hiskes, Dillner, O'Donnell, Marovich & Lapp, and will bear all costs to proceed
to tax deed and perform all other legal and other activities associated with this program.
*Referred to the Committee on Tax Delinquency Subcommittee on July 27, 2010.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 307915. The motion carried.

Peraica, moved the Approval of

Commissioner Peraica moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Murphy. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 307898
Communication Number 307899
Communication Number 307900
Communication Number 307901
Communication Number 307902
Communication Number 307903
Communication Number 307904

Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve as Amended Except for the
following PIN Numbers which have
been Withdrawn: 32-23-415-012-0000;
32-23-418-024-0000; 32-23-418-0250000; 32-23-418-026-0000
Approve
Approve
Approve as Amended Except for the
following PIN Number which has been
Withdrawn: 29-19-127-025-0000

Communication Number 307905
Communication Number 307906
Communication Number 307907

Communication Number 307908
Communication Number 307909
Communication Number 307910
Communication Number 307911

Communication Number 307912
Communication Number 307913
Communication Number 307914
Communication Number 307915

Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve as Amended Except for the
following PIN Numbers which have
been Withdrawn: 29-16-105-051-0000,
29-16-106-037-0000, 29-16-203-0170000 and 29-16-203-018-0000
Approve
Approve
Approve
Approve
_________________________

Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Report of the Finance
Subcommittee on Tax Delinquency be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES

85

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
PURCHASE ORDER ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 29, 2010 from
TAKASHI REINBOLD, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $2,350.00, Purchase Order No. 173478
with DMG-Maximus, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois, for ten (10) additional hours of consulting for the County
Cost Allocation Plan.
Original Purchase Order amount approved 07-23-10:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$3,525.00
2,350.00
$5,875.00

The request for additional hours is needed for the consultant to review the plan and create
templates for constructing the reimbursement rates. The expiration date of the current
purchase order is November 30, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,350.00. (014-186 Account).
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to increase the purchase order. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 28, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to
relocate HVAC unit 4 at One Aloha Lane, Westchester, Illinois, in Proviso Township, County Board
District #16.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

101546
$465.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $465.00.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.

86

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
DONALD WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Chicago Botanic Garden for a temporary
tent for the Harvest Ball at 1000 Lake-Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois, in Northfield Township, County
Board District #13.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

101463
$1,094.26

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,094.26.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for the Evans Scholarship Foundation,
2010 BMW Championship for tents, sky boxes, bleachers and scoreboards at 12294 Archer Avenue,
Lemont, Illinois, in Lemont Township, County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101018
$16,982.63
$15,284.37
$1,698.26

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $15,284.37.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

87

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for the Evans Scholarship Foundation,
2010 BMW Championship for shotlink-television towers, tents, scoreboards and bleachers at 12294
Archer Avenue, Lemont, Illinois, in Lemont Township, County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101017
$36,887.63
$33,198.87
$3,688.76

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $33,198.87.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for the Little City Foundation for
temporary tents, banners and porta-toilets for the 5K Walk at 1760 West Algonquin Road, Palatine,
Illinois, in Palatine Township, County Board District #14.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101468
$2,040.00
$1,836.00
$204.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,836.00.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

88

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for the Little City Foundation for building
of a playlot area at 1760 West Algonquin Road, Palatine, Illinois, in Palatine Township, County Board
District #14.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101458
$112.00
$100.80
$11.20

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent [10%] of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $100.80.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$100.80
$31,726.82

_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 5, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for St. Mary's Friary Fathers for parking
lot repair and addition at 14246 Main Street, Lemont, Illinois, in Lemont Township, County Board
District #17.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

100789
$1,062.75
$956.48
$106.27

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $956.48.
_________________________

89

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 12, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building & Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center for
interior remodeling of Building 120, lower level at 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois, in
Proviso Township, County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101027
$3,570.75
$3,213.67
$357.08

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $3,213.67
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the request of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
CHANGE ORDERS
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 1 in the amount of $18,167.00 to the contract
with Southern Folger Detention Equipment Company, San Antonio, Texas, for the replacement of
Security Hollow Metal Doors and Hardware Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body
approve this request.
Reason:

This change order provides for glass and glazing supplies for 10% of Attic Stock for the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
Contract No. 09-53-268
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:

$976,446.00
0.00
$976,446.00

90

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

18,167.00
$994,613.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $18,167.00. (717/031-590 Account).
This item was included in the FY 2009 Capital Equipment Project approved by the Board of
Commissioners on June 2, 2009. Item # 477.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 5 for an additional 63 day time extension to
Contract No. 07-53-550 with Ideal Heating Company, Brookfield, Illinois, for the Oak Forest Hospital of
Cook County and Provident Hospital of Cook County Pharmacy HVAC (heating, ventilation and airconditioning) Upgrade Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order is due to unforeseen conditions. Asbestos was discovered on an existing
duct and the time extension will allow time for asbestos abatement. In addition, this time
extension includes the removal and relocation of a hand sink, drain and supply lines at
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
Contract No. 07-53-550
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes To Date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$1,164,000.00
188,678.00
$1,352,678.00
0.00
$1,352,678.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: September 28, 2010 through November 29, 2010.
28000 Cook County Health & Hospitals.
This item was included in the FY 2009 Capital Improvement Program approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
This item has been submitted to the Finance Committee of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Board for their approval at their November 5, 2010 meeting.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
91

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Transmitting a Communication, dated September 23, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 3 in the amount of $60,000.00 to the contract
with Tilton, Kelly & Bell, L.L.C., Chicago, Illinois, for the Design and Construction Administration
Services Project at Hawthorne Warehouse. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve
this request.
This change order provides primarily for architectural and engineering services associated with the
installation of mezzanine and push-back racking for the County Clerk’s Election Department.
Space is required to accommodate 2,000 additional voting machines procured by the County Clerk. This
also provides for the design of five (5) air cooled gas fired Heating, Air Conditioning & Ventilation
units. Due to the age and condition of the records, they have become very fragile and require an
environment that will help with their preservation.
Contract No. 07-41-560
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$ 962,000.00
281,286.00
$1,243,286.00
60,000.00
$1,303,286.00

20000 County Physical Plant.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $60,000.00.
This item was included in the FY 2009 Capital Improvement Program approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $4,000.00 from Account
031-260, Professional and Managerial Services to Account 031-190, Transportation and Other Travel
Expenses for Employees.

92

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Reason:

The Office of Capital Planning and Policy monitors capital improvements to ensure Cook
County facilities are accessible, secured and structurally sound. This transfer request is due
to an increase in project site visits by project directors and will satisfy obligations for the
balance of FY 2010.

From Account 031-260

Total

$4,000.00

To Account 031-190

Total

$4,000.00

1.

On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
On October 6, 2010 the balance in Account 031-190 was $962.00. Thirty days prior the balance in
Account 031-190 was $979.00.

2.

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The transferred fund account is used for professional services that consists of appraisals and
surveys and was the only account taken into consideration.

3.

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None.

4.

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
Due to the slump in the real estate market appraisal and surveying services for the sale of real estate
which were not fully utilized.
_________________________

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 12, 2010 from
DOROTHY A. BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for security guard services for the
Clerk of the Circuit Court's storage facility located at 1120 East 89th Street.

93

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Contract period: January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011. (529-260 Account). Requisition No.
15290001.
Sufficient funds are available in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Document Storage Fund.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 4, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
SEAN HEFFERNAN, Chief Deputy Sheriff, Court Services Division
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with L-3 Communications and
Security Detection Systems, Inc., Woburn, Massachusetts, for maintenance and repair of x-ray security
machines.
Reason:

L-3 Communications and Security Detection Systems, Inc., is the sole source for maintenance
and repairs of the Linescan and PX series security x-ray screening system. This company
currently hold the patent number for the Linescan System. As the original equipment designer
and manufacturer, L-3 Communications and Security Detection Systems, Inc. is the only
source of maintenance and repairs.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $379,063.00 [$188,263.00 - FY 2010 - $100,000.00; and FY 2011 - $88,263.00
- (239-441 Account); $190,800.00 - FY 2010 - $48,760.00; and FY 2011 - $142,040.00 - (230-449
Account)].
Contract period: November 28, 2010 through November 27, 2011. Requisition Nos. 02390076 and
02300014.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
The Purchasing Agent concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to enter into the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.

HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT

94

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
September 28, 2010
Honorable President and Members
Board of County Commissioners
Cook County, Illinois
Re:

Motor Fuel Tax Project
Improvement Resolution
Traffic Signal Modernization Contract and LED Retrofitting (53 Locations)
Section: 10-TSCMC-08-TL
Villages of Arlington Heights, Bensenville, Bridgeview, Buffalo Grove, Burr Ridge, Crestwood,
East Hazel Crest, Glenview, Mount Prospect, Northbrook, Northfield, Orland Hills, Orland Park,
Palatine, Riverdale, Roselle, Schaumburg, Skokie, Tinley Park, Wheeling and Wilmette
Cities of Chicago Heights, Harvey, Hickory Hills, Markham, Oak Forest, Palos Heights, Palos
Hills and unincorporated Bremen and Palos Townships
In County Board Districts #5, 6, 13, 14, 15 and 17
Fiscal Impact: $900,000.00
Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-600 Account)
Traffic Signal Modernization
103rd Street (CH B45) at 76th Avenue ........................... Village of Bridgeview and City of Palos Hills
138th Street (CH B52) at School Street ...................................................................Village of Riverdale
143rd Street (CH B80) at Ridgeland Avenue (CH W37)..................Unincorporated Bremen Township
153rd Street (CH B56) at 100th Avenue ..............................................................Village of Orland Park
171st Street (CH B60) at 80th Avenue (CH W32), at 84th Avenue (CH W31) and at Victor Andrew
High School.......................................................................................................... Village of Tinley Park
80th Avenue (CH W32) at 167th Street, at 175th Street and at 183rd Street....... Village of Tinley Park
84th Avenue (CH W31) at 175th Street ............................................................... Village of Tinley Park
87th Street (CH B42) at 78th Avenue and at Oketo Avenue.................................Village of Bridgeview
Buffalo Grove Road (CH W14) at Bernard Drive................... Villages of Buffalo Grove and Wheeling
Busse Road (CH W71) at Lincoln Street and at Westbrook School ..............Village of Mount Prospect
Central Road (CH W39) at Fernandez Drive ............................................. Village of Arlington Heights
East Lake Avenue (CH A59) at Laramie Avenue .................................................... Village of Wilmette
Euclid Avenue (CH A59) at Burning Bush Lane ...........................................Village of Mount Prospect
Glenwood Lansing Road (CH B65) at Wentworth Avenue .............................. City of Chicago Heights
Hibbard Road (CH W41) at Glenview Road............................................................ Village of Wilmette
Kedzie Avenue (CH W46) at 139th Street and at Rexford Road ...............................Village of Robbins
Landwehr Road (CH W80) at Techny Road (CH A76) ........................................Village of Northbrook
Mount Prospect Road (CH W73) at Green Street/Franklin Avenue .................... Village of Bensenville
Nerge Road (CH A90) at Plum Grove Road (CH V63) .............................................. Village of Roselle
Oakton Street (CH A67) at Kostner Avenue ................................................................ Village of Skokie
Plum Grove Road (CH V63) at Cougar Trail and at Weathersfield Way ........... Village of Schaumburg
Plum Grove Road (CH V63) at Schaumburg Public Works Facility .................. Village of Schaumburg
Quentin Road (CH V62) at Wood Street.................................................................... Village of Palatine
Ridgeland Avenue (CH W37) at Alan B. Sheppard High School.......................... City of Palos Heights
LED Retrofitting

95

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
79th Street (CH B39) at Wolf Road (CH W22) .................................................... Village of Burr Ridge
87th Street (CH B42) at Kean Avenue ................................................................... City of Hickory Hills
94th Avenue (CH W26) at 167th Street (CH B59) .................Villages of Orland Hills and Orland Park
103rd Street (CH B45) at 88th Avenue (CH W30) at Roberts Road (CH W32).........City of Palos Hills
104th Avenue (CH W25) at 131st Street (CH B51)..............................Unincorporated Palos Township
171st Street (CH B84) at Center Street (CH W52) ....... Village of East Hazel Crest and City of Harvey
171st Street (CH B84) at 88th Avenue, and at 94th Avenue (CH W26).............. Village of Tinley Park
179th Street (CH B62) at 104th Avenue (CH W25), and at 108th Avenue (CH W75) ...........................
..............................................................................................................................Village of Orland Park
Central Avenue (CH W39) at 155th Street and at Albert Drive................................. City of Oak Forest
Central Avenue (CH W39) at Midlothian Turnpike (CH B80).........Unincorporated Bremen Township
Happ Road (CH W40) at New Trier Township High School West ........................Village of Northfield
Harms Road (CH W38) at Glenview Road ..............................................................Village of Glenview
Kedzie Avenue (CH W46) at Country Aire Drive and at 155th Street .........................City of Markham
Midlothian Turnpike (CH B80) at Kostner Avenue...............................................Village of Crestwood
Roberts Road (CH W32) at 91st Street .................................................................. City of Hickory Hills
Roberts Road (CH W32) at 99th Street .......................................................................City of Palos Hills
This improvement, as proposed, will consist of modernization of existing traffic signal installations
and shall include removal and replacement of various signal controllers and cabinets, mast arms,
posts and signal heads at 32 locations, retrofitting of signal heads to LED at 21 locations, engineering
and other necessary highway appurtenances.
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
State of Illinois
Resolution for Improvement by County
Under the Illinois Highway Code

BE IT RESOLVED, by the County Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, that the following
described County Highways be improved under the Illinois Highway Code:
Traffic Signal Modernization
103rd Street (CH B45) at 76th Avenue………….………..………………………………...Village of
Bridgeview and City of Palos Hills
103rd Street (CH B45) at 76th Avenue………….………..……………..Village of Bridgeview and City of
Palos Hills
138th Street (CH B52) at School
Street…………………………………………………………………………….…Village of Riverdale
143rd Street (CH B80) at Ridgeland Avenue (CH
W37)………………………………….…….…….Unincorporated Bremen Township
153rd Street (CH B56) at 100th
Avenue…………………………………………………………………………….Village of Orland Park
171st Street (CH B60) at 80th Avenue (CH w32), at 84th Avenue (CH W31) and at Victor Andrew
H.S……...….Village of Tinley Park

96

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
80th Avenue (CH W32) at 167th Street, at 175th Street and at 183rd
Street……………………………………..…..Village of Tinley Park
84th Avenue (CH W31) at 175th
Street…………………………………………………………………….……….Village of Tinley Park
87th Street (CH B42) at 78th Avenue and at Oketo
Avenue……………………………………………………...…Village of Bridgeview
Buffalo Grove Road (CH W14) at Bernard Drive………………………………………....……Villages of
Buffalo Grove and Wheeling
Busse Road (CH W71) at Lincoln Street and at Westbrook
School……………………………...……………Village of Mount Prospect
Central Road (CH W39) at Fernandez
Drive………………………………………………………...………Village of Arlington Heights
East Lake Avenue (CH A59) at Laramie
Avenue……...………………………………………………...…………...Village of Wilmette
Euclid Avenue (CH A59) at Burning Bush
Lane………………………………………………………………Village of Mount Prospect
Glenwood Lansing Road (CH B65) at Wentworth
Avenue………………………………………………….......City of Chicago Heights
Hibbard Road (CH W41) at Glenview
Road……………………………………………………………………...…..Village of Wilmette
Kedzie Avenue (CH W46) at 139th Street and at Rexford
Road……………………………………………...…….….Village of Robbins
Landwehr Road (CH W80) at Techny Road (CH
A76)...………………………………………………...……...…Village of Northbrook
Mount Prospect Road (CH W73) at Green Street/Franklin
Avenue……………………………………...………...Village of Bensenville
Nerge Road (CH A90) at Plum Grove Road (CH
V63)….……………………………………………….………….....Village of Roselle
Oakton Street (CH A67) at Kostner
Avenue…………………………………………………………………………….Village of Skokie
Plum Grove Road (CH V63) at Cougar Trail, at Schaumburg Public Works and at Weathersfield
Way………...Village of Schaumburg
Quentin Road (CH V62) at Wood
Street…………………………………………………………………………….....Village of Palatine
Ridgeland Avenue (CH W37) at Alan B. Sheppard
H.S……………………………………………………….……City of Palos Heights
10-R-

RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
State of Illinois
Resolution for Improvement by County
Under the Illinois Highway Code

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the type of improvement shall be the modernization of existing traffic signal
installations and shall include removal and replacement of various signal controllers and cabinets, mast arms, posts

97

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
and signal heads at 32 locations, retrofitting of signal heads to LED at 21 locations, engineering and other necessary
highway appurtenances and shall be designated as Section: 10-TSCMC-08-TL MFT; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the improvement shall be constructed by contract; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that there is hereby appropriated the sum of Nine Hundred Thousand and NO/100
Dollars ($900,000.00) from the County’s allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds for the construction of this
improvement; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution
to the District Office of the Illinois Department of Transportation.

_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Improvement Resolution be
approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
September 30, 2010
Honorable President and Members
Board of County Commissioners
Cook County, Illinois

I herewith present the following recommendation for change in plans and extra work involved on this
improvement in the Village of Bartlett, the City of Elgin and Unincorporated Hanover Township.
AUTH. NO.
SECTION
DESCRIPTION
AMOUNT
2

00-B1003-05-RP
Group 1-2009:
W. Bartlett Rd.-Spitzer Rd.
to IL Route 59
Munger/Naperville Rd.DuPage County Line to
W. Bartlett Rd.

Adjustment of
Quantities and
New Items

$161,135.00
(Addition)

The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed.
New items were required but not provided for installation of 10 in. precast reinforced concrete flared end
section, removal of concrete driveway and installing 8 in. concrete driveway.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Roads & Bridges (Comm. No. 309523). The motion carried unanimously.
REPORT

98

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
October 1, 2010
The Honorable President and Members
Board of County Commissioners
Cook County, Illinois
submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending September 30, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Roads & Bridges (Comm. No. 309524). The motion carried unanimously.
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
REPORT
Transmitting a Communication from
JOSEPH SOVA, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
and
CONSTANCE M. KRAVITZ, C.P.A., County Comptroller
submitting the Human Resources Activity report covering the two (2) week pay period ending October 9,
2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.
JUDICIARY
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 14, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with the Chicago Bar
Foundation (CBF), Chicago, Illinois, to manage the court’s Guardianship Assistance Desk for Minors.
Reason:

The Guardianship Assistance Desk for Minors, located on the tenth floor of the George W.
Dunne Administration Building, provides critical assistance to individuals who represent
themselves in court in seeking to obtain the guardianship of minors in the Probate Division of
the Circuit Court of Cook County. Services include assessment of client’s eligibility to seek
guardianship, explanation of court procedures and assistance with completing court forms and
documents. The desk has provided assistance to thousands of pro-se guardianship litigants
over the past many years. The desk is staffed with court personnel and off site legal
assistance is provided by attorneys from CBF’s program partner, the Chicago Volunteer Legal
Services Foundation (CVLS). CBF would grant 100 percent of the contract proceeds to
CVLS, which pledges to match the value of the county’s contribution. CBF proposed the
lowest cost in conjunction with a Request for Proposal process.

99

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $179,287.00 (FY 2011 - $33,833.31; FY 2012 - $59,014.96; FY 2013 $60,794.09; and FY 2014 - $25,644.64). Contract period: May 1, 2011 through April 30, 2014. (310260 Account). Requisition No. 13100001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 funds.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Litigation (Comm. No. 309525). The motion carried unanimously.

JUVENILE TEMPORARY DETENTION CENTER
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2010 from
EARL L. DUNLAP, Transitional Administrator, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for six (6) months, Contract No. 09-45-192
with Finer Foods, Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of frozen foods.
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the bid, evaluation and award of the new
contract. Approximately $208,448.05 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the
current contract was October 29, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: October 30, 2010 through April 29, 2011.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF OFFICE TECHNOLOGY
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for eight (8) months, Contract No. 09-41-340
with Microsoft Professional Support, Dallas, Texas, for the continuation of the Microsoft Exchange Email
Migration.
Reason:

The Exchange platform offers better integration with the various Microsoft products used
throughout the County, improved calendaring, unified messaging, mobility and web access.
"Unified Messaging" allows the users to receive voice mail, e-mail and faxes in their
mailboxes and allows users to access their mailboxes using their phones or wireless devices.

100

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Approximately $35,000.00 remains on this contract.
contract was October 31, 2010.

The expiration date of the current

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: November 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to extend the requested agreement. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
BID OPENING
October 27, 2010
Honorable President and Members
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
Pursuant to the rules of this Board, I hereby submit for your consideration, bids which were opened under
my supervision on Wednesday, October 27, 2010, at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago,
Illinois.
Very truly yours,
GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioner
CONTRACT NO.

DESCRIPTION

USING DEPARTMENT

10-45-121

Maintenance of refrigeration equipment

Department of Facilities
Management

10-53-122

Maintenance of security system at the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center

Department of Facilities
Management

10-84-124

Electric time stamp

Clerk of the Circuit Court

10-53-131

Design/build services for the renovation at
Forest Park TB District
_________________________

Office of Capital Planning
and Policy

By consensus, the bids were referred to the/their respective department(s) for review and consideration.

CONTRACTS AND BONDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated November 3, 2010 from

101

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
The following contracts are being submitted for approval and execution:
Adelante, P.C.
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-149
To Provide Court Ordered Assessment and Treatment Services to Probationers Convicted of Sex
Offenses, for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge, Adult Probation Department,
for the contract sum of $85,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as authorized by the Board of
Commissioners 9/15/10.
American Cadastre, LLC d/b/a AmCad
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-148
For Maintenance and Technical Support for the Imaging and Document Management System, for the
Clerk of the Circuit Court, for the contract sum of $189,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners 9/1/10.
Chicago Uniform Company
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-126
For Staff Uniforms and Other Accessories for Employees, for the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center,
for the contract sum of $240,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as authorized by the Board of
Commissioners 7/27/10.
Globetrotters Engineering Corporation
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-167
For Architectural and Design Services for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County Greenhouse Demolition
Project, for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the contract sum of $55,380.00, as authorized
by the Board of Commissioners 5/18/10 and 9/1/10.
Government Finance Officers Association
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-185
To Assist Cook County with Expediting the Delivery of a Request for Proposal (RFP) for System
Integration Services Related to the Countywide ERP System, for the Bureau of Technology and the
Bureau of Finance, for the contract sum of $90,000.00, as authorized by the Board of Commissioners
10/19/10.
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM)
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-157

102

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
For Planning, Implementation and Maintenance of a County Wide Business Continuity Plan and Disaster
Recovery Capabilities, for the Bureau of Technology, for the contract sum of $1,000,000.00, for a period
of thirty-six (36) months, as authorized by the Board of Commissioners 6/1/10.
Latino Family Services, PC
Agreement
Contract No. 10-45-153
To Provide Court Ordered Assessment and Treatment Services to Probationers Convicted of Sex
Offenses, for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge, Adult Probation Department,
for the contract sum of $45,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as authorized by the Board of
Commissioners 9/15/10.
Loretto Hospital
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-139
To Provide Substance Abuse Testing and Treatment Services for the Criminal Division's Adult Drug
Treatment Court Program, for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge, Adult
Probation Department, for the contract sum of $75,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners 9/1/10.
Ronald C. Simmons, Psy.D. & Associates, Inc.
Agreement
Contract No. 10-45-155
To Provide Substance Abuse Testing and Treatment Services for the Criminal Division's Adult Drug
Treatment Court Program, for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge, Adult
Probation Department, for the contract sum of $70,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners 9/15/10.
South Suburban Council on Alcoholism and Substance Abuse
Agreement
Contract No. 10-41-143
To Provide Substance Abuse Testing and Treatment Services for the Criminal Division's Adult Drug
Treatment Court Program, for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge, Adult
Probation Department, for the contract sum of $80,000.00, for a period of twelve (12) months, as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners 9/1/10.
Anchor Mechanical, Inc.
Contract and Bond
Contract No. 10-53-069
For CORE Center Roof Replacement of Air Cooled System, as required for use by the Office of Capital
Planning and Policy, for the contract sum of $279,980.00. Date Advertised 6/8/10. Date of Bid Opening
7/12/10. Date of Board Award 10/5/10.
Farber Specialty Vehicles
Contract
Contract No. 10-53-019

103

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

For One (1) 2010 Bomb Truck Response Vehicle (Robot Operation Center), as required for use by the
Sheriff’s Police Department, for the contract sum of $298,221.00. Date Advertised 6/22/10. Date of Bid
Opening 7/12/10. Date of Board Award 10/19/10.
Independent Recycling Services, Inc.
Contract
Contract No. 10-53-027
For Scavenger Services, as required for use by the Department of Corrections, Sheriff’s Custodial
Department and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, for the contract sum of $2,320,639.50. This is
a requirements contract for a period of thirty-six (36) months. Date Advertised 6/8/10. Date of Bid
Opening 7/12/10. Date of Board Award 10/19/10.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the contracts and bonds be
approved and that the Proper Officials be authorized to sign on behalf of Cook County. The motion
carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 12, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State's Attorney
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1.

Sean Hanks v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 10-CV-1188
(Comm. No. 309526).

2.

Sean Hanks v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 10-CV-3389
(Comm. No. 309527).

3.

Corey Safford v. Cook County Department of Corrections Officers, et al., Case No. 10-C-4741
(Comm. No. 309528).

4.

Craig Mrazek v. Carrington, et al., Case No. 10-C-4067
(Comm. No. 309529).

5.

Martin Corral v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 08-L-14166
(Comm. No. 309530).

6.

Reggie Davis v. Correctional Officer Bufford, et al., Case No. 08-C-3072
(Comm. No. 309531).

104

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

7.

Deborah Gage v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 09-L-7276
(Comm. No. 309532).

8.

Marsha Clay v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 10-C-2953
(Comm. No. 309533).

9.

Michael Parish v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 10-C-3190
(Comm. No. 309534).

10.

Starsky Creamer v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 10-C-4172
(Comm. No. 309535).

11.

Allstate Insurance Company (a/s/o Valella) v. County, Case No. 10-M1-14455
(Comm. No. 309536).

12.

Progressive Direct (a/s/o Mattson) v. Office of the Sheriff, Case No. 10-M1-12827
(Comm. No. 309537).

13.

Steven Szczepanski v. County of Cook, Case No. 09-L-13725
(Comm. No. 309538).

14.

Mary Thompson v. County of Cook, Case No. 10-L-7577
(Comm. No. 309539).
_________________________

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communications be referred
to the Litigation Subcommittee. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER
CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 26, 2010 from
MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
by
JOSEPH M. FRATTO, Chief Deputy Treasurer
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with R&S Associates, Chicago,
Illinois, for IT consulting in the area of maintaining, modifying, and creating existing Treasurer’s
Mainframe-MIS critical interfaces.
Reason:

A Request for Qualifications (RFQ) was issued by the Cook County Treasurer and two (2)
vendors responded. R&S Associates met all of the requirements under the RFQ process. The
vendor was selected due to their extensive experience with Cook County’s Mainframe, Cook
County Real Estate Information Systems, Cook County’s Real Estate Taxation Process,
Internal Systems within Real Estate Taxation offices, and ability to complete the requirements
of projects within the specified time frame.

105

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $190,000.00 (FY 2010 - $90,000.00; and FY 2011 - $100,000.00). Contract
period: November 17, 2010 through November 16, 2012. (534-260 Account). Requisition No.
05340031.
Sufficient funds are available in the County Treasurer Tax Sales Automation Fund.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to enter into the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.

MISCELLANEOUS AGENCIES AND INDIVIDUALS (OUTSIDE OF THE COUNTY)
PRESENTATION OF PROGRAM AND BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2011 - CTA
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2010 from
TERRY PETERSON, Chairman, Chicago Transit Authority
requesting the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) be placed on the Cook County Board of Commissioner's
agenda for November 3, 2010 for the purpose of presenting the FY 2011 Program and Budget.
_________________________
Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the communication be received and
filed. The motion carried unanimously.
PRESENTATION OF PROGRAM AND BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2011 - METRA
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2010 from
ARLENE MULDER, Metra Board Member
requesting Metra be placed on the Cook County Board of Commissioner's agenda for November 3, 2010
for the purpose of presenting the FY 2011 Program and Budget.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.
PRESENTATION OF PROGRAM AND BUDGET FOR THE YE AR 2011 - PACE
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2010 from
VERNON T. SQUIRES, Board of Directors, Pace
Pace would like an opportunity to present a summary of our yearly budget at the November 3, 2010 board
meeting.
_________________________

106

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 3, 2010
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.
PRESENTATION OF PROGRAM AND BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2011 - RTA
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2010 from
JOHN GATES, Chairman, Regional Transportation Authority
and
JOSEPH COSTELLO, Acting Executive Director, Regional Transportation Authority Board
requesting the opportunity to make a presentation of its Program and Budget for 2011 to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to adoption by the RTA Board on December 14, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the meeting do now adjourn to
meet again at the same time and same place on November 16, 2010, in accordance with County Board
Resolution 10-R-20.
The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

________________________
County Clerk

107

 