COMMISSIONERS

COMMISSIONERS

EARLEAN COLLINS 1st DISTRICT PETER N. SILVESTRI 9TH DISTRICT
ROBERT STEELE 2nd DISTRICT BRIDGET GAINER 10TH DISTRICT
JERRY BUTLER 3rd DISTRICT JOHN P. DALEY 11TH DISTRICT
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS 4th DISTRICT JOHN A. FRITCHEY 12TH DISTRICT
DEBORAH SIMS 5th DISTRICT LARRY SUFFREDIN 13TH DISTRICT
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY 6th DISTRICT GREGG GOSLIN 14TH DISTRICT
JESUS G. GARCIA 7th DISTRICT TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 15TH DISTRICT
EDWIN REYES 8Ih DISTRICT JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI 16TH DISTRICT

 

ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN 17TH DISTRICT

TONI PRECKWINKLE

PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-6398


MATTHEW B. DELEON
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD

FEBRUARY 23, 2012

MEETING NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on
Wednesday, February 29, 2012 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County
Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:

316772

AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 74 TAXATION, ARTICLE XI TOBACCO TAX,
SECTIONS 74?430 74-447 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President and Jerry
Butler, John P. Daley, Bridget Gainer, Jesus G. Garcia, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims and
Robert B. Steele, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

TOBACCO TAX AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article XI Tobacco Tax, Sections 74?430 74?447 is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 74-430. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the "Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance".

Sec. 74-431. - De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions
are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.

Altered 0r mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity information is
illegible or incomplete.

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing
tobacco (other than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as defined in this article).

Printed on Recycled Paper

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 2

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of
size or shape and whether such tobacco is ?avored, adulterated or mixed with any other
ingredient, or not, and the wrapper of which is made of paper or any other substance or
material except tobacco.

Concealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, or cigarette tax stamps, in violation
of this article, deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or
in the possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.

Consumer means a person who purchases cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products from a
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer.

Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged,
arti?cial or imitation manufacturing label.

County means the County of Cook.

Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County
of Cook.

Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means, any packs of cigarettes on which is af?xed an
altered/mutilated; used or reused; or counterfeit tax stamp.

Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing
tobacco and weighing more than three pounds per thousand.

Little cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing
tobacco and not weighing more than three pounds per thousand.

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or
package as provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco
dealer or person breaking or otherwise opening any cigarette package to sell or distribute
individual cigarettes or a number of unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the
minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of cigarettes that is smaller than the
smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.

Loose little cigars mean little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack
or package as provided by the manufacturer.

Manufacturer means any person, other than a Retail Cigarette Manufacturer, who makes or
fabricates cigarettes and/or tobacco products and sells them.

Other Tobacco p?roducts includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, smoking
tobacco, large cigars and little cigars, but does not include cigarettes.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE3

Package means the original packet, box, tin or container whatsoever used to contain and to
convey cigarettes other tobacco products to the consumer.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association and any other legal entity.

Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or
labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as
tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.

Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place where cigarette or
(?ber Tobacco Products inventory is possessed, stored or sold.

Purchaser means a buyer of Other Tobacco Products. including but not
limited to, retail tobacco dealers. retail cigarette manufacturers and/or consumer eiLend?
user:

Retail cigarette manufacturer means any retail tobacco dealer who provides to consumers
tobacco and other material and ?es?eigareitesroe- inevides?te
equipment for the production a__nd sale of

cigarettes within the retailer??s_cigarette manufacturer? 5 premises s?(as?de?ned?herein) in
Cook County.

 

Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling cigarettes
or other tobacco products in the County of Cook to a consumer 
eeasumptienand not for resale in any form.

Roll-your-own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type,
packaging or labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by,
consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or cigars or for use as wrappers of cigars or
cigarettes.

Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or both, exchange or
barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a valuable
consideration.

Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco products
not intended to be smoked.

Smoking tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other kinds
and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable for smoking in a pipe or
cigarette.

.S?myjr means any finely cut, ground or powered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Emits means anvmist tobacco product that is not intended to he smoked.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE4

Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania device thereon, of
such size, design, color and denominations as may be prescribed and procured by the
Department which, when af?xed to a package of cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the
tax thereon, as provided by this article.

Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques;
granulated, plug cut, crimp out, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; w, snuff or
snuff ?our; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; ?ne?cut and other chewing tobaccos;
shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweeping of tobacco; and other kinds and
forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a
pipe or otherwise, or both chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes or tobacco
purchased for the manufacture of cigarettes by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and
manufacturers as de?ned in this article.

Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to measure the quantity
sold based on length, width, weight such as pounds, ounces and/0r grams or volume or
some other similar unit of measure, including but not limited to per item.

Unstamped pack means any pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County tax stamp is not
af?xed.

Use means any exercise of a right or power, actual or constructive, and shall include but is
not limited to the receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention for any length of time, but
shall not include possession for sale by a retail tobacco dealer, retail cigarette manufacturer
or wholesale tobacco dealer as de?ned in this article.

Used or reused tax stamp means any tax stamp previously af?xed to a tobacco product,
removed and subsequently af?xed to any tobacco product purchased, offered for sale or
sold by any person, wholesale or retail tobacco dealer; or any removed tax stamp
purchased, offered for sale, sold by, or in the possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco
dealer.

Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling or
supplying cigarettes and/or Other tIobacco pBroducts, who brings or causes to be brough_t
into the County of Cook cigarettes, and/or Other Tobacco Products teraHy?persen for 
i resale to ret_ail_ tobacco dealers and/or retail cigarette manufacturers in or outside the
County of Cook. For the purposes of this article, wholesale tobacco dealers also include
persons or businesses licensed as tobacco distributors or cigarette distributors with the

State 

 

Sec. 74-432. Registration of wholesale, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette
manufacturer.

Wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers as
de?ned in this article, shall register with the Department in accordance with policies or

procedures prescribed by the Department.

Sec. 74-433. - Tax imposed; cigarettes, other tobacco products; collection; remittance.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGES

Cigarette Tax rate. A tax at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette is hereby
imposed upon all cigarettes possessed for sale and upon the use of all cigarettes within the
County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne
by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax imposed hereby at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10
per cigarette shall become in force and effect on March 1, 2006. The tax herein levied shall
be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Cigarette Tax Stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this section shall be paid by
purchase of tax stamps from the Department, except as otherwise provided in Subsections
74?446(a) and of this article. The Department shall only sell Cook County cigarette tax
stamps to cigarette distributors who are licensed with the State of Illinois. It shall be the
duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer, before delivering or causing to be delivered any
cigarettes to a retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from the Department
a tax stamp for each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery of
such cigarettes to any retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall be
af?xed and cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the Department.

(0) Retail cigarette manufacturer tax rate. A tax at the rate of $0.10 per cigarette is
hereby imposed upon each cigarette produced sold by a retail cigarette manufacturer. T_he_
tax herein levied shall be in addition to anv and all other tag

Other tobacco product tax rate. A tax at the rates specified in this section is
hereby imposed upon the sale of all Other Tobacco PruducLs_within the County of Cock,
th_e ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne by the Consumer
of said Other Tobacco Products. The tax imposed here_by at the rates listed in subsectiLn
(1) shall come into force and effect on March 1, 2012 aggl subsection (2) on January 11
2013.

 

 

(1) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following
products through December 31, 2012:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.

b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.

0. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

d. Large cigars: $0.25 per unit or cigar.

(2) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following
products effective January 1, 2.013:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

c. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

d. Large cigars: $0.30 per unit or cigar.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE6

Floor Tax. Notwithstanding subsection of this Section. on or before March 20.
2012 and January 20, 2013, even/_retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette manufacturer
doing bt?iness in the County of Cook shall file with the Department. on forms prescribed
by the Department, a sworn inventon of Other Tobacco Products in their possession or
control as of 1:59 pm. on February 29, Elli? and December 3 I, 2012 respectively, With
sait?lujnventow. every retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette manufacturer shall pay to the
(I'ountv taxes at the rates set l'ortlrabove on sa?idvinyentory. including any additional taxes
due as a result ofthis article, as amended.

 

 

 

(of) Wholesale Tobacco Dealer Tees, Retail Tobacco Dealer and Retail Cigarette
Manufacturer Tax collection. Any wholesale tobacco dealer who shall remit to the Coung
pay the tax levied by this article to?the?Depart?meat?? shall collect the tax from any retail
tobacco dealer and/or retail cigarette manufacturer to whom the sale of said cigarettes
a_nd/or eOther tTobacco pProducts is made, and any retail tobacco dealer _a_nd _r_etail
cigarette manufacturer shall in turn, collect the tax from the purchaser- Consumer. ?ef?said
e?igaeettesrsme rs. Any such tax
shall be collected as a trustee for and on account of the County of Cook. Nothing In this
shalLbe eonsttued to itnpose a tax upon the occupation ol wholesale tobacco dealer.
retail tobacco dealer, and retail cigarette manufacturer.

 

 

 

 



I. Wholesale Tobacco Dealers. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer
to remit the tax due on th_eseies of _Ot_her Tobm) Products to retail tobacco
dealers and /or retail cigarette manufacturers in Cook County on forms prescribed
by the Depa_rtn_1ent. on or before the 20lh day of the month following the month in
which the sales of Other Tobacco Products occurred;

2. Retail Cigarette Manufacturers. It shall be the duty of every retail cigarette
manufacturer to remit the _tax due on cigarettes produced and sold on the premises.
on forms prescribed by the g; betLQIethe 241?? day oLthe month
_fo_llowing the month in which the cigarette sales occurred.

3. Retail tobacco dealers and for retail cigarette manufacturers untaxed Other
Tobacco Products It shall be the_ 4y of _every re_tai_l tobacco dea_ler _a1_Id/or retail
Emu?e that purchases or Tobacco Products on
which the tax set forth in this Ara?Clo (11 Other Tobacco Products has not been
paid. to remit" the tax due. on Forms prescribed by the DepartmeuLQn or before the
20m day following the month in which the_Ot_her Tobacco Products for which taxes
were not paid were purchased or acquired by the retail tobacco dealer or_ retail
cigarette manufacturer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23,2012
PAGE7

Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a retail
tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to fail to include the tax imposed in this
article in the sale price of cigarettes and other tobacco products to otherwise absorb such
tax. The tax levied in this article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Tax debt owed to County. The tax required In this article to be to

he County retail


shall constitute a debt owed by such any wholesale tobacco dealer, or
retail tobacco dealer or retz? c_igarette manufacturer te?the?Geuntye
$Sec. 74-434. - Tax free sales.

Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay or collect a tax
with respect to cigarettes and/or other tobacco products which are otherwise subject to the
tax when the cigarettes and/or other tobacco products are being sold to the following:

Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County tobacco wholesaler?s
registration certi?cate; andg?

A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer the
selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the cigarettes or other
tobacco products to a location outside of Cook County.

Sec. 74?435. - Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.

It shall be a violation of this article to engage in the sale, possession, or use of any
cigarettes and/or other tobacco products subject to any tax provided by this article upon
which said tax has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required,
including, as described in this article:

(1) Counterfeit cigarettes or counterfeit other tobacco products.
(2) Counterfeit tax stamps.

(3) Improperly stamped packs.

(4) Unstamped packs.

It shall be a violation of this article for any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco
dealer, or retail cigarette manufacturer to engage in any of the following:

(1) Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering for sale or resale
packs of cigarettes affixed with a used or reused tax stamp.

(2) Concealment, as described in this article.

(3) Sell or distribute loose cigarettes. fH?l-l-H-l-e-H?rl-I-b.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 8

(4) Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered Cook County wholesale
tobacco dealer, unless each package bears an un-mutilated Cook County tax stamp af?xed,
or where the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the unstamped
cigarettes to a location outside Cook County.

(5) Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from performing an
inspection or audit.

(0) Prima facie presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a wholesale tobacco
dealer or retail tobacco dealer of altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used or reused tax stamps;
or packs of counterfeit, imprOperly stamped, unstamped cigarettes or loose cigarettesg?
the sale. resale or possession, [w a retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer,_g_vg_l_~
Other on which the tax has not been paid shall give rise to the prima
facie presumption that the wholesale tobacco dealer, or retail tobacco dealer or retail
cigarette manufacturer is in violation of the provisions of this article. Retail tobacco
d?lcrs or manufacturers shall he held stricllv liable for violations of this
ordinance that occur regardless of the
employment status of the actual violator.

 

Cigarette pack, tax stamp, loose cigarettes M?httle?ei-gars, other tobacco products
and hindrance violation penalties.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Violation Type I

Penalties
Amount I
Concealment
1st Offense $2,000.00
2nd and each subse_quent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Counterfeit packs of cigarettes
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per pack 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Counterfeit tax stamps
40 or less 2,000.00
4] or more, per stamp 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Improperly stamped packs
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per pack 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2000.00
Loose cigarettes and?HEW
40 or less 1,000.00
40 or more, per cigarette 25.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Other tobacco products
Ist offense 1,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Sales to unregistered wholesalers

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 9
offense 2,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Unstamped packs
40 packs or less 1,000.00
41 packs or more, per pack 25.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Utilization of used or reused tax stamps
40 or less packs or stamps 2,000.00
41 or more packs or stamps, per pack or stamp 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Hinder inspection or audit
offense 1,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00

 

 

Sec. 74-436. - Other violation penalties.

Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, excluding the
violations described in Section 74-435 (Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and
penalties), shall be subject to a ?ne in the amount of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense, and a
fine of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such
violation, or permit any such violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed
a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate
information to the Department.

Criminal penalties. Every person who shall falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit
any tax stamp, or who, with intent to defraud the County, shall affix or cause to be af?xed
any counterfeit or altered stamp to any package of cigarettes, knowing said stamp to be
counterfeit or altered, shall be guilty of a Class misdemeanor, in addition to any other
criminal penalties which may be applicable under Illinois or Federal law.

Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no
way bar the right of the County to institute civil proceedings to recover
delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs incurred for
such proceeding.

Sec. 74-437. - Internet, mail order and outside-of?county purchases.

With respect to cigarettes or tobacco products purchased over the internet, by mail order or
outside the County, if the tax on cigarettes and other tobacco products which is imposed
pursuant to this article, as amended, has not been paid by a wholesaler or retailer prior to
use or possession of the cigarette or tobacco product by a person within the County of
Cook, such person shall be obligated to make payment of the tax directly to the
Department. Within 30 days of purchase, such person shall file a return with the
Department of Revenue and pay the tax, penalties and interest due under this article, as
amended.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 10

Sec. 74?438. Mutilation of tax stamps.

It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any package of
cigarettes before it is sold by a retail tobacco dealer.

Sec. 74?439. - Books and records to be kept.

Wholesale tobacco dealer records of deliveries. At the time of delivering cigarettes
or Other Tobacco Products to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall be
the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice, numbered
serially, showing the date of delivery, the number of packages, the number of cigarettes
contained therein in each shipment of cigarettes delivered, or amount of Other Tobacco
Products delivered, and the name of the purchaser to whom delivery is made. The
wholesaler tobacco dealer shall issue one copy of the invoice to the purchaser, and shall
retain one legible copy of the same for the use and inspection of the Department for the
period of time as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedure Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

 

Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases; sales; reconciliations. It shall be the
duty of every wholesale tobacco deal_e1_j and retail tobacco dealer to make or maintain
cigarette and/or Other Tobacco Products inventory:

(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered, indicating the date; name, address of
the person or business from whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were
purchased; brand name, type and total number of packages to be purchased, in sequential
date order.

(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address
of the person or business to whom the cigarettes or Otlrer__Tobacco Products were
delivered; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order.

(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents, serially numbered indicating the date;
name, address of the person or business to whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products
were sold; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order.
(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents, indicating in sequential date order, brand
name, type and total number of packs or amounts of Other Tobacco Products sold, each
day.

 

(5) Retail tobacco dealer cigarette inventory reconciliation, indicating daily, weekly or
beginning inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory, in sequential date
order.

(6) Retail tobacco dealer wholesaler list, indicating the name and address of
each wholesaler from whom cigarette or Other Tobacco Products inventory was purchased;
brand name; type and total number of packs purchased from each wholesaler.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012


Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be the duty of
all wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette
manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect and/or to pay the
taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain all books, papers and records
related to all transactions taxable and nontaxable under this article and to make
such records available to the Director or a duly authorized representative who
has been appointed, by the Director, on request for inspection, audit and/or
copying during regular business hours. The Department shall promulgate rules
and regulations specifying the records that shall be kept by wholesale tobacco
dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and persons
required by this article to collect and or/pay the taxes herein imposed, and may
prescribe any forms appropriate in furtherance of this article. Books, papers
and records which relate to a return ?led or required to be filed with the
Department shall be kept for the period as provided for in the Cook County
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34?60 et seq).
The burden shall be on the wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers
and retail cigarette manufacturers tax?eellecheI?erd?tds?pavent to keep records
which verify the basis for any and all transactions which are claimed to be
exempt from taxation pursuant to Section 74-434 of this article.

 

 

 

Sec. 74-440. - Inspections; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with Section 74-439 of this article shall be made
available to the Department upon request for inspection, audit and/or copying during
regular business hours. Representatives of the Department shall be permitted to inspect or
audit cigarette or Other Tobacco Products inventory in or upon any premises. An audit or
inspection may include the physical examination of the cigarettes, packaging,?or?the
cigarette tax stamps or Other Tobacco Products. It shall be unlaw?il for any person to
prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the
enforcement duties provided in this article.

 

 

Sec. 74-441. - Confiscate; seize; redemption penalty.

Con?scation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized
representatives shall discover any cigarettes and/or other tobacco products subject to any
tax provided by this article upon which said tax has not been paid or the stamps affixed and
cancelled as herein required, they are hereby authorized and empowered forthwith to
confiscate; seize and take possession of such cigarettes and/or other tobacco products
together with any vending machine; receptacle; container; vessel or holder in which they
are held for sale except for money contained in such vending machine or receptacle, shall
thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.

Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department shall either destroy the cigarettes
seized or may permit the Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from whom the said
cigarettes were seized, to redeem the cigarettes and/or any vending machine or
receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of a Redemption Penalty equal to
100 percent of the tax due, and including the cost incurred in such proceeding.
Such seizure, destruction, and sale, or redemption shall not be deemed to relieve
any person from fine or imprisonment provided herein for violation of any
provision of this article.

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 12

Sec. 74-442. - Posting of signs.

Every retail tobacco dealer shall post a sign issued by the Department, indicating the offer
to sale, the sale or purchase of unstamped packs or loose cigarettes is unlawful. The sign
shall be posted in a conspicuous location, to anyone purchasing cigarettes, at the retailer's
place of business.

Sec. 74-443. - Wholesale tobacco dealer quarterly returns.

A sworn quarterly cigarette and/or other tobacco products Revenue Information return
shall be ?led by each wholesale tobacco dealer with the Department, on forms prescribed
by the Department. The return shall be ?led on or before the last day of the ?rst month
following the preceding quarter. Every wholesale tobacco dealer required to ?le a tax
return under this section, who does not ?le such tax return by its due date, or alternatively
does not provide all required information on such tax return, shall be subject to the
penalties that are provided for in Section 74-436 of this article in addition to all other
penalties and interest that may be due as provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.). Quarterly returns, books and records, papers
and original source documents that provide support for the information that is included in
the return ?led, with the Department, shall be kept for the period as provided in the Cook
County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34?60 et seq.)

Sec. 74?444. - Failure to file a return and/or pay remit tax.
In case of failure to ?le a tax return and pay remit this tax when due the Department may

assess penalties and interest as provided for in this article and/or the Cook County Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.)

 

Sec. 74-445. - Authority to se_llaie stamp; agents; credits/refunds.

Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and furnish tax stamps of
such denominations and quantities as may be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed
on cigarettes by this article, and may, from time to time, provide for the issuance and
exclusive use of stamps of a new design and forbid the use of stamps of any other design.

Agents. The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers of cigarettes and any
other person within or without the County as agents to af?x stamps to be used in paying
the tax hereby imposed on cigarettes and said agent is hereby authorized to appoint other
persons in his employ who are to af?x said stamps to any cigarettes under his control in the
manner prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Department. Whenever
the Department shall sell, consign or deliver to any such agent any such stamps, such agent
shall be entitled to receive compensation for his services and expenses in af?xing such
stamps, and to retain use ofthe monies to be paid by him for such stamps as a commission.
The Department is hereby authorized to prescribe a schedule of commissions not
exceeding ?ve percent allowable to such agent for af?xing such stamps. Such schedule
shall be uniform for each type and denomination of stamp used and may be on a graduated
scale with respect to the number of stamps purchased. The Department may, in its
discretion, permit an agent to pay for such stamps within 30 days after the date of sale,
consignment, or delivery of such stamps to such agent, provided a bond or bank letter of

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 13

credit satisfactory to the Department and approved as to form and legality by the State's
Attorney shall be submitted by said agent to the Department, in an amount equal to the
value of such stamps. The Department, with approval from the State's Attorney, shall issue
regulations pursuant to Section 74-435 regarding the use of such bonds or bank letters of
credit.

(0) Credits 0r Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax stamps lawfully on
the possession of any person. Any person seeking credit and/or a refund for
unused tax stamps, tax stamps af?xed to packages of cigarettes returned to a
manufacturer, or for the replacement of tax stamps, must ?le a claim in writing
on forms prescribed by the Department. This form must be ?led with the
department no later than 12 months after the month in which the tax remittance
or tax payment was made to the Department. The United States post mark date or
date of physical/actual receipt is used, by the Department, to determine if a credit
or refund is ?led timely. No person shall sell or offer for sale any stamp issued
under this article, except by written permission of the Department. The
Department may prescribe rules and regulations concerning refunds, sales of
stamps and redemption under the provisions of this article.

Sec. 74-446. - Single state and county stamp and tax return.

Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 74-
433(b), Section 74-435, and Subsection 74?445(a) of this article, the Department may
provide by regulation that the tax imposed by this article shall, in the alternative, be
collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single tax stamp to be prepared jointly
with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the
City of Chicago) evidencing the payment of the tax imposed by this article. Toward that
end, the Department may make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of
Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as
may be required with respect to the method of acquiring, af?xing, canceling and the
manner of sharing the cost of such joint single tax stamps, and may establish procedures
for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected by the Department of Revenue of
the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) due and payable
to the County of Cook, in furtherance of the purposes of this article. In the event such
alternative method as herein provided is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax
may be used within the relevant jurisdiction; however, all other applicable provisions of
this article shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.

tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 
Section 74-435, Subsection 74-44S(a) and subsection of this section, the
Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed on cigarettes by this
article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the ?ling ofa sworn tax
return to be prepared and ?led by every wholesale tobacco dealer who sells
cigarettes for consumption in the County of Cook. Said return shall be ?led on a
basis and shall contain the same information required by Subsection 74?
445(b) of this article. Said return shall be ?led with the Department on or before
the ?fteenth day of each month stating such other and further information as may
be required by the Department, and said return shall be accompanied by a
certi?ed check in the amount of the tax due and payable upon such taxable sales
made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the County of Cook during the

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGE 14

preceding month. In the event such alternative method is utilized, no other
method of collecting said tax may be used; however, all other applicable
provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect with the exception
of the necessity of ?ling a quarterly tax return as provided in Section 74-443 of
this article, which shall not be required.

Sec. 74-447. - Rulemaking.

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, de?nitions, and regulations
necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such rules, de?nitions,
and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with
existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail tobacco dealers for collection and
remittance of the tax herein levied.

The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers and any other person within
or without the County of Cook as agents for the tax herein levied. The Department is
hereby authorized to grant a commission not exceeding .0045 or .45 percent per cigarette
tax stamp sold by the County of Cook to such agent for services rendered in connection
with the tax herein levied in (Section 74?433), provided said tax is remitted, in full, by the
due date.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every wholesale tobacco dealer
doing business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed
by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With
said inventory, the wholesale tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the
taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with
respect to all stamped cigarettes which were in such wholesale tobacco dealer's possession
on March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing
business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a
sworn inventory of cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said
inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due,
including any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all
cigarettes which were in such retail tobacco dealer?s possession on March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer
doing business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms
prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of tobacco products in their possession or
control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall pay
to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as
a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all tobacco products which
were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on June 1, 2006.

Sec. 74-448. - Transmittal of excess tax collections.

Chairman:

FINANCE COMMITTEE NOTICE
FEBRUARY 23, 2012
PAGEIS

1n the event a person wholesale tobacco dealer. retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette
manufacturer collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this article, as amended,
which amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and said wholesale tobacco dealer,
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer person fails to return the said excess
amount to the purchaser who paid the tax, the said wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco
dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer persen who collected the tax shall account for and
pay over all such excess amounts to the Department along with the tax properly collected.

 

 

Sec. 74-449. - Deposit of tax proceeds.

All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article, including penalties,
shall be paid to the Department. The Department shall direct every dollar collected from
the 2006 increase in the rate of the Home Rule Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds
of the Cook County Bureau of Health.

Secs. Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provision of this article or whenever this article is

silent. the provisions of the uniform penalties. interest and procedures ordinance, Article

111, Chapter 34 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances shall apply and supplement this

article.

Secs. 74-451?74?469. - Reserved.

Effective Date: This Amendment shall be effective on passage.

., 2399?;

hil?/ttltew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Daley

Vice-Chairman: Sims

Members:

Committee of the Whole

