 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, February 18, 2014 11:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. .Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the speci?ed time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise
when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use
vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

13-2213

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Creating ?Accountability Charges? for Violations of the Shakman Consent Decree

WHEREAS, violations of the Shakman Consent Decree cost Cook County over $600,000 in Fiscal Year 2013
and millions of dollars in previous ?scal years; and

WHEREAS, payments for violations of the Shakman Consent Decree are deducted from the Cook County
Self-Insurance Fund; and

WHEREAS, there is no ?nancial penalty to individual departments that violate the Shakman Consent Decree;
And

NOW THERE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Finance Committee? 5 Subcommittee on Litigation of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners shall develop
a plan to assess an ?Accountability Charge? against any Department that 15 found to be 1n violation of the
Shakman Consent Decree in Fiscal Year 2013? and future years; and

 

 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the ?Accountability Charge? plan shall be include a deduction 1n the
operating funds of the Department - - - - - - -- - for the

 

violation of the Shakman Consent Decree and the deducted funds shall be transferred to the Cook County Self
Insurance Fund;

 

Legislative History 11/ 13/ 13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Committee
Legislative History 12/4/13 Finance Committee referred to the Finance Subcommittee on
Litigation

Carol Rios for Simon Rios v. County of Cook

Michael Grills (Estate of Baby Grills) v. County of Cook
Mykala Dandridge, et al., v. County of Cook

Fields Chandler v. Cook County, et al.

Lambert v. Jamison, et al.

Patrick Blanchard v. Joseph Berrios

Hernandez v. Cook County Sheri??s Department
Gwendolyn Bell v. County of Cook, et al.

James Degorski v. Cook Country Sheriff et al.

United States of America v. Cook County, et al.

SUBCOMMITTEE ROUTINELY MEETS IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.

    

Frag, 

fM?t?iew B. DeLeonV
Secretary

 

Chairman: Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Collins, Gainer, Schneider, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 2 of 2

