REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
July 13, 2004
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Commissioners Gorman, Murphy and Quigley (4)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Hansen and Maldonado (3)

Also
Present:

John P. Nyhan, General Counsel and Patrick J. Hanlon, General Counsel, Cook County
Assessors Office.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, July 13, 2004 at the hour of 9:30 AM in the
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

266178

REAL PROPERTY ASSESSMENT CLASSIFICATION ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Transmitting a Communication, dated May 24,
2004from James M. Houlihan, Cook County Assessor:
I am requesting that the Board of Commissioners approve an amendment to the Class
6b Classification Ordinance that clarifies necessary document submittals and time
frames relating to requests to shorten the 24-month abandonment period.
Currently, applicants seeking 6b incentives for new construction, substantial
rehabilitation or the reoccupation of property abandoned for longer than 24 months may
file municipal and county letters in lieu of enabling ordinances. This ordinance
amendment seeks to provide that same procedure relating those properties having been
abandoned for less than 24 months. Applicants would still be required to obtain approval
of the necessary ordinance prior to actually receiving the benefits of the incentive.
Presently, applicants must obtain a municipal finding that "special circumstances" exist
to waive the required 24 months of abandonment and also must obtain a resolution by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners to validate that municipal
finding. Unfortunately, the current language contained in the Ordinance does not make
it plain that the option of providing a "letter in lieu of" an ordinance extends to cases
involving these “special circumstances”.

 All applications regarding abandoned property must be made to the Assessor’s Office
within 90 days after purchase of the property. Given the scheduling constraints on the
relevant governing bodies, obtaining the required resolution in 90 days is not possible
at all times. Foreclosing the option of providing a "letter in lieu of" an ordinance to those
property owners who seek “special circumstances” puts them in an untenable and
unintended position.
Allowing an applicant to file a municipal or county "letter in lieu of" an enabling ordinance
at the time it made application to the Assessor became effective on January 1,
2000. Although we intended that the benefits and flexibility provided by this amendment
apply in all cases, the current language contained in the Ordinance is not clear as to the
matter. This ambiguity was unintentional and the result of an oversight in the drafting
of those amendments that became effective on January 1, 2000, and for this reason this
change is sought.
I have submitted a copy of proposed changes to the Ordinance, which should rectify the
situation once approved.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Class 6b:

Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, as defined herein,
consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including
the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as defined
herein, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all
buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the
extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land
related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds
vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of
land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square
footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel.
In the case of abandoned property, if the municipality or the Board of
Commissioners, as the case may be, finds that special circumstances
justify finding that the property is “abandoned” for purpose of Class 6b,
even though it has been vacant and unused for less than 24 months, that
finding, along with the specification of the circumstances, shall be included
in the resolution or ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. Such resolution or ordinance shall be filed includedwith the
eligibility application. If the ordinance or resolution is that of a municipality,
the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County is required to
validate such shortened period of qualifying abandonment, and a resolution
to that effect shall be included with the Class 6b eligibility application. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling ordinance with the required
finding of special circumstances and present such municipal ordinance to
the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as
to whether it will validate such a shortened period of qualifying
abandonment and provide a County resolution to that effect. A certified
copy of an ordinance or resolution finding that special circumstances exist,

 as well as a certified copy of a County ordinance or resolution validating
the shortened period of qualifying abandonment need not be filed at the
time of filing the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must
be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is
filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the resolution is not filed at
the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that
time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be,
confirming that a resolution or ordinance regarding special circumstances
has been requested.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee on 6/15/04
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved the approval of
Communication No. 266178. The motion carried.
Commissioner Murphy moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Gorman. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Earlean Collins, Chairman

Attest:

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Michelle Harris, Secretary

 