JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

County Board Room, County Building
Board Meeting of
Tuesday, September 9, 2014, 10:00 A.M.

TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT

JERRY BUTLER
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
JOHN A. FRITCHEY
BRIDGET GAINER
JESÚS G. GARCÍA
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN

STANLEY MOORE
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
EDWIN REYES
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI
MATTHEW B. DeLEON
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Call to Order. ............................................................................................................................................. .3
Invocation. .................................................................................................................................................. .3
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
PUBIC TESTIMONY
Public Speakers… ............................................................................................................................... .......4
CONSENT CALENDAR
Consent ...................................................................................................................................................... .4
PRESIDENT
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Forest Preserve Fee Schedule) ...................................................... ...4
Proposed Resolution (Next Generation Youth Outdoor Ambassadors) ............................................. ..5
COMMISSIONERS
Reports of Committees
Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations – September 9, 2014 ............................................................. 6
Real Estate – September 9, 2014 ............................................................................................................. 28
Labor – September 9, 2014 ...................................................................................................................... 33
Rules – September 9, 2014 ...................................................................................................................... 35
Finance – September 9, 2014 ................................................................................................................... 37
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT’S OFFICE
Proposed Contract Amendment (Waste Management of Illinois) ........................................................... .47
Proposed Contract Amendment (Waste Management of Illinois) .......................................................... .48
Proposed Contract Amendment (Hoving Pit Stop, Inc.) ......................................................................... .49
Proposed Contract Amendment (Service Sanitation) ............................................................................. .50
Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (Metro Water Reclamation District & Village of North
Riverside) ................................................................................................................................................ .51
Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (Cook County) ....................................................................... .52
Proposed Agreement (Commuter Rail Division of the RTA) ................................................................. .52
Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (Cook County) ........................................................................ .53
Proposed Contract (Burris Equipment Frankfort) .................................................................................... .54
Proposed Lease Request (District 4) ........................................................................................................ .55
Proposed Lease Request (District 13) ...................................................................................................... .56
Proposed Lease Request (District 49 ....................................................................................................... .57
Proposed Grant Application (IL Department of Natural Resources) ...................................................... .58
Proposed Resolution (Authorized Signatories) ........................................................................................ .59
Report (Comprehensive Annual Financial Report).................................................................................. .60
Report (Procurement & Disbursements Report) ...................................................................................... .61
Report (Conversation Cup Status Report) ............................................................................................... .41
Report (FPD MBE/WBE Expenditures Report) ...................................................................................... .62
Report (Chicago Zoological Society MBE/WBE Expenditure Report)................................................... .62
Report (Chicago Botanic Garden MBE/WBE Expenditure Report) ........................................................ .63
Calendar of Events ................................................................................................................................... .63
New Items ................................................................................................................................................ .66
Adjournment ........................................................................................................................................ ...67

Page 2 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Board Meeting of Tuesday, September 9, 2014
10:00 A.M.
County Board Room, County Building
________________________

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the Chair.
CALL TO ORDER

At 10:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.

QUORUM
Secretary to the Board, Matthew B. DeLeon called the roll of members and there was found to be a
quorum present.

ROLL CALL
Present:

Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri , Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy (3)

Also Present:

President Preckwinkle
INVOCATION

Father Thomas Koys, Pastor at St. James Church, Sag Bridge, Lemont, gave the invocation.

Page 3 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
President Preckwinkle asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30.
There were no public speakers for the September 9, 2014 Board Meeting.
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY
CONSENT CALENDAR
There were no Consent Calendar items for the September 9, 2014 Board Meeting.
* * * * *

PRESIDENT
14-0400
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOREST PRESERVE FEE SCHEDULE
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of Ordinances to facilitate the ability to
obtain a permit for activities such as rallies, pickets, protests, speeches, and demonstrations.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
7 - Fees, Chapter 1 – Fee Schedule of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:
7-1-1: FEE SCHEDULE
Picnic Permits*…..…
•

Picnic Permits - one grove per permit, fees assessed for all permits; large groups may require
multiple permits and/or security.
Picnic permit category W = 25 to 99 people
Picnic permit category X = 100 to 399 people
Picnic permit category Y = 400 to 999 people
Picnic permit Level 4 = Large area events

•

Special use permits: special accommodations such as tents, beer truck, caterer, rides, generator,
lights, overflow parking. A special use permit will be required for the aforementioned
accommodations even if a picnic permit is not required based on the size of the group.

•

Special activity/event permits: activities not included in picnic permits and/or special use permits.
Usually sold to a group.
Page 4 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

•

Rallies, pickets, protests, speeches, and demonstrations involving 25 or more persons shall be
considered activities requiring special event permits.

•

Nonprofit organizations with proper documentation may qualify for a reduced rate of 50% on
designated picnic permit charges.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations. The
motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0436
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Honoring the Fall 2014 Next Generation Youth Outdoor Ambassadors (YOA) Managers and
Students
WHEREAS, on September 9, 2014, the Next Generation Youth Outdoor Ambassadors will present their
findings on how the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) can better connect teens
to nature and outdoor recreation and enable young people to have an
active voice and role in the
Preserves. The Next Generation Youth Outdoor Ambassadors is a program funded in part under the
Coastal Zone Management Act, by NOAA’s Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management in
conjunction with the Illinois Coastal Management Program, Illinois Department of Natural Resources,
and was conducted in partnership with Fishin’ Buddies; and
WHEREAS, six Youth Outdoor Ambassadors planned and coordinated five events at five different
locations that attracted more than 800 teens; and
WHEREAS, the Youth Outdoor Ambassadors introduced over 800 youth to Forest Preserve programing
and presented to an additional 600 youth in classroom settings; and
WHEREAS, the Youth Outdoor Ambassadors designed a survey data form that was utilized to determine
which Preserve programs resonate most with teens. More than 200 youth from the Calumet region
completed the survey; and
WHEREAS, the Youth Outdoor Ambassadors exceeded their goals for this project and have successfully
gathered findings that will help the Preserves improve their teen programming; and

Page 5 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

WHEREAS, under the leadership of Credell Walls, Preserves’ Community Outreach Specialist, Pete
Gizyn, YOA Program Manager, John Kidd, Sr., Founder & President of Fishin’ Buddies, and the YOA
members Bria Foster, Amari Floyd, Kelvin Boyd, Stephenie Monroe, Aleah Moore, Chental Handy, and
Christopher Morris have provided valuable data that will allow the Preserves to grow and develop
successful teen programming; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Arnold L. Randall, General Superintendent, and Toni
Preckwinkle, President, and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, hereby
thank and congratulate the Youth Outdoor Ambassadors, Pete Gizyn, and Credell Walls.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to Credell Walls,
Peter Gizyn, John Kidd, Sr., and the Youth Outdoor Ambassadors as a token of appreciation for their
service to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County residents.
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Consent
Calendar Resolution be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
COMMITTEE REPORTS
14-0439
Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Monday, September 8, 2014

9:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Absent:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.
1. Lenore Beyer-Clow, Policy Director Openlands

Page 6 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

14-0375
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances for the
purpose of establishing a Conservation and Policy Council for the purpose of providing additional
leadership and expertise in the conservation area and other related areas.
WHEREAS, One hundred years ago, civic leaders in Chicago had the wisdom and foresight to leave us
an extraordinary gift: the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and;
WHEREAS, in recognition of the need for a renewed vision for the District and as an acknowledgment
of this body’s commitment to a program of renewal, restoration and engagement, on February 18, 2014,
the District Board of Commissioners adopted the Next Century Conservation Plan (the “Plan”), and;
WHEREAS, the Plan, which was developed by a team of civic leaders, organizations and District staff to
map the District’s strategic conservation vision for the next 100 years, calls for transforming the forest
preserves to places that foster diversity of plants, animals and habitats and welcome diverse people, and;
WHEREAS, the Plan also calls for the creation of a Conservation and Policy Council to provide
continuous conservation leadership and expertise to the President and Board of Commissioners of the
District.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the District Board of Commissioners that Title I Forest
Preserve Lands and Property, Chapter 18 Conservation and Policy Council of the Code of the District
hereby is enacted as follows:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1 - OFFICIAL FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT CODE
CHAPTER 2 - SAVING CLAUSE
CHAPTER 3 - DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 4 - GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 5 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 6 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 7 - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 8 – DISTRICT FINANCES
CHAPTER 9 - LAND ACQUISITIONS AND DEDICATIONS
CHAPTER 10 - POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 11 - DRUG-FREE POLICY FOR DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 12 - BOTTLED WATER BAN
CHAPTER 13 - CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 14 - DISTRICT VEHICLE POLICY
CHAPTER 15 - REDUCTION OF WASTE
CHAPTER 16 - GREEN BUILDINGS
Page 7 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

CHAPTER 17 - OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
CHAPTER 18 - CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
****
CHAPTER 18
1-18-1
1-18-2
1-18-3
1-18-4
1-18-5
1-18-1

CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL

GENERAL PROVISIONS
MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance.
B. Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation and Policy Council is to safeguard, expand and bring
additional resources to the District by providing public recommendations regarding conservation, based
on the Council’s knowledge, skill, leadership and expertise in the field of conservation and other related
areas, to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners of the District.
C. Declaration. The District Board hereby establishes the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council ("Conservation Council"). The District Board hereby finds and declares
that the Conservation Council shall do, but not be limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the
Next Century Conservation Plan and annually recommend adoption of the updated
strategic and financial plan to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of
Commissioners;
2. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board
of Commissioners about the annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and
financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board
of Commissioners about conservation policies and practices;

4. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board
of Commissioners about opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources
to accomplish conservation goals and initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and
conservation leadership.
D. Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or
construction ascribed to them in this Section:

Page 8 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

1. Conservation Council means the eleven (11) Member board charged with providing
public recommendations to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of
Commissioners on all matters relating to the policies of the District and the Next Century
Conservation Plan.
2. Chairperson means the chairperson of the Conservation and Policy Council.
3. District Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County, Illinois.
4. Member means a Member of the Conservation and Policy Council.
5. Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance, as amended.
6. President means the President of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County, Illinois.
1-18-2

MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

A. General. The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Conservation Council.
B. Number of Members. There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex Officio (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
C. Appointment of Members. One of the eleven (11) Members shall be Chairperson, appointed by the
President and one of the eleven (11) shall be an Ex-Officio Member. The Ex-Officio Member shall be
a District Board Commissioner, appointed by the President. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a voting
Member of the Conservation Council. The Ex-Officio Member shall serve as a liaison between the
District Board and the Conservation Council. The ten (10) remaining Members, including the
Chairperson, shall be appointed in the following manner:
1. Initial Appointments. The President shall appoint all Initial Members of the
Conservation Council based on the criteria established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s
Code of Ordinances.
2. Subsequent Appointments. After the first term of each of the Initial Member
appointments expires or are otherwise terminated, Members of the Conservation Council
will be selected as follows:
3. The President, in consultation with the Council, will appoint a Nominating Committee,
comprised of at least 5 individuals, to recommend replacement or renewal of Members as
terms expire.

Page 9 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners
a.

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A majority of the Nominating Committee members will be representatives of
not-for-profit organizations that have as their primary focus conservation of
nature, land and/or water.
One member of the Nominating Committee will be a representative of a notfor-profit organization that has as its primary focus government finance and
public policy.
The Nominating Committee may include up to two Conservation Council
members.

b.

c.

4. The Nominating Committee will review the qualifications of individuals on the criteria
established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances, and will present at
least one nomination for each vacant position to the President before the end of the term
5. The President will select from the Nominating Committee’s list and present one name for
each vacancy to the Board of Commissioners for concurrence.
6. If the Board does not approve appointment of the recommended candidate(s), the
President may go back to the original recommendations of the Nominating Committee, or
request additional names from the Nominating Committee.
7. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment by the President or
Board of Commissioners shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Is signed by the candidate;
Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
Is notarized;
Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite
statute, ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment;
e. Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills;

8. If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is
appointed, the candidate will notify the President of the District Board of Commissioners
in writing within seven (7) business days of the change.
D. Terms of Members.
1. Ex-Officio Member.
The District Board Commissioner who is appointed as the ex-officio Member shall serve
on the Conservation Council for the length of the Commissioner’s term. Upon an
appointment or election change for the representative from the District Board, the
President may provide notice to the District Board and the Conservation Council of any
such change in ex-officio Member appointment.

Page 10 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

2. The remaining Members. The Chairperson and the other remaining nine (9) Members of
the Conservation Council shall serve terms as follows
a.

For the Initial Members,
1. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the
ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2015.
2. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the
ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2016.
3. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the
ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2017.
4. The Chairperson initially appointed by the President also shall serve a term
that expires on December 31, 2017.

b.

Thereafter, all Members including the Chairperson, but excluding the Ex-Officio
Member, appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years.
1.
2.

Each appointed Member, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office
until a successor is appointed.
Any appointed Member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a
vacancy caused by the expiration of the predecessor's term, shall serve
until the expiration of his or her predecessor's term.

E. Vacancy. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

Expiration of Member’s term,
Resignation,
Death,
Conviction of a felony, or
Removal from the office of an appointed Member as set forth in paragraph ‘F’
of this Section.

F. Removal of Members. A Conservation Council Member may be removed for good cause by the
President. Good cause includes inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or any cause which
renders the Member unfit for the position or unable to perform the duties of the position. The
President shall provide written notice to that Member, the General Superintendent, the Conservation
Council and the District Board of the proposed removal of that Member from the Conservation
Council; such notice shall state the specific grounds which constitute cause for removal. The
Member, in receipt of such notice, may request to appear before the District Board and present
reasons in support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the District Board shall vote upon whether there
are sufficient grounds to remove that Member from office. The President shall notify the subject
Member of the final action of the District Board.
G. Officers. The Conservation Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers: (1)
Chairperson, (2) Vice-Chairperson and (3) Secretary. The Chairperson shall be appointed by the
President. The Vice Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the Council. Each of the three officers,
respectively, shall be entitled to vote on all matters before the Conservation Council and may be
appointed to serve successive terms as officers.

Page 11 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

H. Duties of officers.
1. The Chairperson shall:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Preside at all meetings, when present;
Execute all documents relating to Conservation Council policy or designate
such responsibility as warranted;
Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
Perform any other agenda duties as directed by the Conservation Council.

2. The Vice-Chairperson shall act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the
Chairperson’s absence. In the event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the
Vice-Chairperson shall succeed to this office for the unexpired term or until the
President brings forth another appointment that is recommended by the Nominating
Committee and approved by the Board.
3. The Secretary shall maintain the Conservation Council records, including notices for
and minutes of meetings and hearings.
1-18-3

QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS

A. Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing individuals to serve as Members shall include:
1.

Background and skills needed on the Conservation Council including, but not
limited to expertise in one or more of the following:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.
k.
l.
m.

Conservation (practice)
Ecology (science)
Education/interpretation
Cultural resources/archeology/historic preservation
Management/business
Eco- or heritage tourism/market feasibility analysis
Finance
Public policy and planning
Outdoor recreation
Health and wellness
Volunteer management
High level government experience
Working knowledge of the District, Chicago Botanic Garden,
Brookfield Zoo and/or other culturally significant institutions
affiliated with, or supportive of, the District’s statutorily defined
purpose.

2.

Resident of Cook County, Illinois;

3.

Availability and willingness to attend Conservation Council meetings
quarterly; and

4.

Ability and willingness to:

Page 12 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

a. Learn sufficient details about District management and operations in order
to effectively evaluate proposed actions and reports; and
b. Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chairperson of the
Conservation Council.
1-18-3 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Conservation Council thereafter, the Members shall
prescribe the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special
meetings may be called.
B Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be
held annually.
C. A majority of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Conservation
Council shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting Members of the Conservation
Council present and voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.
D. The Conservation Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of
any of its responsibilities.
E. The Conservation Council shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act, as now or
hereafter amended, and found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
F. The Conservation Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as now or hereafter amended,
and found at 50 ILCS 205/1, et seq., as well as the Freedom of Information Act, as now or hereafter
amended, and found at 5 ILCS 140/1, et seq.
G. The Conservation Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on its
website.
1-18-5

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

A. The Conservation Council shall submit to the General Superintendent, the Board of Commissioners
and the President an annual report prior to the end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which
may be necessary to carry out the mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to
conservation issues.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon approval and adoption.
Legislative History: 7/22/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
be Accept a Substitute. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 13 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
Proposed Substitute 14-0375

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances for the
purpose of establishing a Conservation and Policy Council for the purpose of providing additional
leadership and expertise in the conservation area and other related areas.
WHEREAS, One hundred years ago, civic leaders in Chicago had the wisdom and foresight to leave us an
extraordinary gift: the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and;
WHEREAS, in recognition of the need for a renewed vision for the District and as an acknowledgment of
this body’s commitment to a program of renewal, restoration and engagement, on February 18, 2014, the
District Board of Commissioners adopted the Next Century Conservation Plan (the “Plan”), and; FPD
WHEREAS, the Plan, which was developed by a team of civic leaders, organizations and District staff to
map the District’s strategic conservation vision for the next 100 years, calls for transforming the forest
preserves to places that foster diversity of plants, animals and habitats and welcome diverse people, and;
WHEREAS, the Plan also calls for the creation of a Conservation and Policy Council to provide
continuous conservation leadership and expertise to the President and Board of Commissioners of the
District.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the District Board of Commissioners that Title I Forest
Preserve Lands and Property, Chapter 18 Conservation and Policy Council of the Code of the District
hereby is enacted as follows:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1 - OFFICIAL FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT CODE
CHAPTER 2 - SAVING CLAUSE
CHAPTER 3 - DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 4 - GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 5 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 6 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 7 - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 8 – DISTRICT FINANCES
CHAPTER 9 - LAND ACQUISITIONS AND DEDICATIONS
CHAPTER 10 - POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 11 - DRUG-FREE POLICY FOR DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 12 - BOTTLED WATER BAN
CHAPTER 13 - CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Page 14 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

CHAPTER 14 - DISTRICT VEHICLE POLICY
CHAPTER 15 - REDUCTION OF WASTE
CHAPTER 16 - GREEN BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 17 - OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
CHAPTER 18 - CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
****
CHAPTER 5 FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RULES OR ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
***
1-5-1:
1-5-2:
1-5-3:
1-5-4:
1-5-5:
1-5-6:
1-5-7:

DEFINITIONS
ORGANIZATION
BUDGET MATTERS
PARLIAMENTARY RULES
[Reserved for Procedures Relating to Revenue Matters]
INTERPRETATION, FORCE AND EFFECT
TRANSITION

****
1-5-2: ORGANIZATION
2-1.

President.

a) The President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County shall be the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, and the chief executive officer of the
Forest Preserve District.
b) It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the Board and to see that the rules and
regulations of the Board are complied with and enforced. The President shall preserve order and
decorum; shall decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal of the decision as
provided by Section 4-17 of these rules; shall entertain all motions, ordinances or resolutions only in
accordance with the provisions of these rules; and shall generally perform the duties of a presiding
officer.
c) President Pro Tempore. At the commencement of a term, the President shall nominate and the Board
shall by resolution elect one (1) Commissioner as President Pro Tempore for such term. The President
Pro Tempore shall, in the absence of the President, preside over meetings of the Board. In addition, in
the event the President is temporarily unable to act in performing the remainder of his or her official
duties, the President Pro Tempore shall perform such duties and possess all the rights and powers of
the President until such time as the President is able to perform such duties or, in the event of a
vacancy in the office of the President, until such vacancy is filled. If the President Pro Tempore shall
cease to be a Commissioner or shall resign the office of President Pro Tempore, the Board shall elect
another Commissioner to serve as President Pro Tempore for the remainder of the term.
2-2. Adoption of Rules. At the commencement of a term, the Board may adopt new rules of
organization and procedure by ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety and repealing
these rules. Such ordinance must be adopted by a majority of those elected. Rules so adopted shall
supersede these rules.
Page 15 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners
2-3.

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Committees.

1. The committees of the Board shall be:
i. The standing committees and their standing subcommittees listed in Rule 2-6;
ii. Special committees created by Board resolution under Rule 2-5; and
iii.
Special subcommittees created by standing committees or by special committees under
Rule 2-5.
Subcommittees may not create subcommittees.
2. The President shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of all committees in addition to the
Commissioners who are appointed committee members.
3. A vacancy on a committee, or in the Chair or Vice-Chair position on a committee, shall be created
when a Commissioner resigns from such position or ceases to be a Commissioner. Resignations shall
be made in writing to the Secretary who shall promptly notify the President and all Commissioners.
4.

Vacancies on committees or in the positions of Chair or Vice-Chair shall be filled by appointment
by the same appointing authority as the initial appointments to such committee. In the case of
committee appointments made by the Board, the Board shall fill vacancies by resolution. In the case
of vacancies on special subcommittees that were created by committees, the parent committee shall
fill the vacancy by motion.

5.

Any Commissioner, regardless of whether a Chair, Vice-Chair or member of the committee, and
the President shall be afforded the courtesy of participating in debate on any item before a committee.

6.

The Chair of a committee or subcommittee shall have the authority to call and preside at meetings
of such committee or subcommittee. In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall perform the
functions of the Chair.

7.

The Secretary shall, at the end of each fiscal year, submit to the President and the Board a
summary of all items pending in each committee.

2-4.

Membership and Officers of Standing Committees.

(a) At the commencement of each term, the members of each standing committee and standing
subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution adopted by a majority of those elected.
(b) At the commencement of each term, the Chair and Vice-Chair of each standing committee and
standing subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution of the Board adopted by a
majority of those elected.
2-5.

Special Committees and Subcommittees.

(a) The Board may create special committees by resolution adopted by a majority of those elected. The
appointed members of a special committee shall be designated by resolution.
(b) A committee may create a special subcommittee by motion adopted by a majority of the
Commissioners who are voting members of the committee.

Page 16 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

(c) The resolution or motion creating a special committee or special subcommittee shall specify the
subject matter of the special committee or subcommittee and the number of members to be appointed
thereto, and may specify a reporting date during the term in which event the special committee or
subcommittee shall be abolished as of such date. Unless an earlier date is specified by resolution or
motion, special committees and subcommittees shall expire at the end of the term.
2-6.
Standing Committees. The standing committees of the Board, their standing subcommittees and
the number of members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair) are as follows:
AUDIT (7) - Chief Financial Officer shall be an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Audit Committee
BOTANIC GARDEN (10)
CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (10)
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE (9)
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL (7)
FINANCE (Committee of the Whole) with the following subcommittees with the number of members
indicated:
Labor (7)
Litigation (7)
Workers' Compensation (5)
LAW ENFORCEMENT (9)
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (Committee of the Whole)
REAL ESTATE (Committee of the Whole)
RECREATION (9)
RULES (9)
ZOOLOGICAL (10)
2-7.
Referrals to Committees. The Board may by motion refer any item before the Board to a
committee or to a subcommittee. The Chair of a committee may refer an item pending in that committee
to a subcommittee of that committee. An item referred by the Board to any committee or subcommittee,
or by a committee chair to a subcommittee, shall not be jointly referred to any other committee or
subcommittee. Only upon the return of the item to the Board, either by report of the committee or by the
Board's discharge of the item from the committee or subcommittee, may the Board refer the item to
another committee or subcommittee.
All items referred to committee or subcommittee by the Board shall be designated with a Communication
Number as assigned by the Secretary.

Page 17 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

No committee or subcommittee shall meet for any purpose other than to consider one or more items
designated by Communication Numbers.
The Secretary shall refer the draft Journal of Proceedings directly to the Committee on Rules and
Administration and provide a Communication Number within twenty-one (21) days of a Board meeting.
2-8.
Public Hearings of Committees. Any committee meeting may, at the discretion of the Chair, be
designated as a public hearing; provided that the following requirements are satisfied:
1. A paid notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing, and solicitation of pertinent
public testimony shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook County;
2. A like notice shall be posted on the website maintained by the Secretary;
3.

A court reporter is present and reporting all written and oral testimony by members of the public;

4.

All oral testimony by members of the public shall be the first order of business after the
committee is called to order; and

5.
Any other meeting notification requirements found elsewhere in these rules.
2-9.
Reporting by Committees. Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or
subcommittees pursuant to this section, only the Board may take final action on any item referred to a
committee or subcommittee. Committees shall report to the Board, and subcommittees shall report to
their parent committees, subsequent to the adjournment of a meeting of the committee or subcommittee.
The report of any committee or subcommittee shall be comprised of two (2) sections.
The first section of the report, "the text," shall constitute the minutes of the meeting for which the report
was prepared and shall contain: a list of the attendees; an account of the items considered; a summary of
the deliberations, including motions and amendments proposed and/or adopted; all votes taken; the result
of said votes; and any attachments to the record as ordered by the Chair.
The second section of the report shall include a summary of certain actions taken at the meeting for which
the report was prepared. For purposes of this section, action is defined as motions, duly seconded and
carried, to adopt one (1) of the six (6) following statements of intent with respect to a Communication
Numbered item:
(1) Recommend for Approval;
(2) Recommend for Approval as Amended;
(3)

Not Recommended for Approval;

(4)

Not Recommended for Approval as Amended;

(5)

Recommended for Receiving and Filing; and

(6)

Returned With No Recommendation.

Page 18 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

The committee's adoption of any one (1) of the above six (6) statements of intent, as reported to the
Board, shall constitute conclusive action by the committee on a Communication Numbered item, and
shall automatically discharge the committee from further jurisdiction of the item. Absent the attachment
of one (1) of these six (6) statements of intent to the Communication Numbered item, such item will
remain in committee unless discharged by the Board.
The Board's approval of a committee report that contains a statement(s) of intent as set forth in numbers
(1) through (5) above in this section will constitute final Board action on the item(s) attached to the
statement(s) of intent. The Board's approval of a committee report that contains a statement of intent as
set forth in number (6), "Returned With No Recommendation," places the item before the Board for
immediate consideration.
Commissioners present and voting on a motion to approve a committee report retain the right to divide
their vote with regard to each item contained in the second section of the report, or to request a separate
vote, either by voice or roll call, on such items, regardless of the action taken in Committee and prior to
the approval of the committee report.
2-10.
Discharge of Committee by the Board. The Board may discharge any item from committee by a
majority vote.
2-11.
Confirmation of Presidential Appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the
President requiring the advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee upon the President's submission. The Committee shall promptly
hold such hearings as it deems appropriate and shall, no later than thirty (30) days after referral, report all
such appointments to the Board with a recommendation for action. If the Committee has not made a
timely report on any appointment, the appointment shall, at the next regular meeting of the Board
following the expiration of such thirty (30) days, be referred to the Board with "no recommendation" by
the Committee.
2-12.

Advisory Committee.

(a) This Committee shall be deemed defunct, dissolved and replaced by the Conservation and Policy
Council established by Title 1, Chapter 18 of the District Code of Ordinances. consist of citizens of
the District who shall serve at the will of the President and in connection with the Board of
Commissioners, shall constitute the Advisory Committee of the District.
(b) The Committee shall consider and recommend to the Board such action as it shall deem appropriate
and necessary to fulfill and accomplish, in the largest measure, the objects and purposes of the
District in its establishment and development.
(c)

This Committee shall be appointed by the President with the concurrence of a majority of the
members of the Board. No person shall be appointed to the Advisory Committee who is a member or
employee of the Board. There shall be not less than seven (7) or more than seventeen (17) members
of the Advisory Committee.

****

Page 19 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

CHAPTER 18 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
1-18-2 MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-3 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
1-18-4 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance.
B. Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or
construction ascribed to them in this Section:
1. Council means the eleven (11) member Conservation and Policy Council charged with providing
public recommendations to the President, Board of Commissioners, and Superintendent on all matters
relating to the conservation policies of the District and the Next Century Conservation Plan.
2. Chairperson means the chairperson of the Conservation and Policy Council.
3. District means the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois.
4. District Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois.
5. Member means a Member of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation and Policy
Council.
6. Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance, as amended.
7. Plan means the Next Century Conservation Plan for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois, Resolution 14-0091, adopted by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Commissioners
on February 18, 2014.
8. President means the President of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County, Illinois.
9. Superintendent means the General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois.
C. Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation and Policy Council is to safeguard, expand and bring
additional resources to the District by providing public recommendations regarding conservation, based
on the Council’s knowledge, skill, leadership and expertise in the field of conservation and other related
areas, to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent of the District. The Council shall review
and evaluate the implementation of the Plan.
D. Declaration. The District Board hereby establishes the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council ("Council"). The District Board hereby finds and declares that the
Council shall do, but not be limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the Plan
and annually recommend adoption of the updated strategic and financial plan to the President,
District Board, and the Superintendent of the District.;

Page 20 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

2. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent
about the annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent
about conservation policies and practices;
4. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent
about opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources to accomplish
conservation goals and initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and
conservation leadership.
1-18-2 MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. General. The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Conservation Council.
B. Number of Members. There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex Officio (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
C. Appointment of Members. One of the eleven (11) Members shall be Chairperson, appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the District Board and one of the eleven (11) shall be an ExOfficio Member. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a District Board Commissioner, appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the District Board. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a voting
Member of the Council. The Ex-Officio Member shall serve as a liaison between the District Board and
the Council. The ten (10) remaining Members, including the Chairperson, shall be appointed in the
following manner:
1. Initial Appointments. The President shall appoint all Initial Members of the Council with the
advice and consent of the District Board based on the criteria established in Section 1-18-3 of the
District’s Code of Ordinances.
2. Subsequent Appointments. After the first term of each of the Initial Member appointments
expires or are otherwise terminated, Members of the Council will be selected as follows:
3. The President, in consultation with the Council, will appoint a Nominating Committee,
comprised of at least 5 individuals to recommend replacement or renewal of Members as terms
expire.
a. A majority of the Nominating Committee members will be representatives of not-forprofit organizations that have as their primary focus conservation of nature, land and/or
water.
b. One member of the Nominating Committee will be a representative of a not-for-profit
organization that has as its primary focus government finance and public policy.

Page 21 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

c. The Nominating Committee may include up to two Council members.
4. The Nominating Committee will review the qualifications of individuals on the criteria
established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances, and will present at least one
nomination for each vacant position to the President before the end of the term.
5. The President, with advice and consent from the District Board will select from the
Nominating Committee’s list and present one name for each vacancy to the District Board for
concurrence.
6. If the Board does not approve appointment of the recommended candidate(s), the President
may go back
to the original recommendations of the Nominating Committee, or request additional names from
the Nominating Committee.
7. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment by the President or Board
of Commissioners shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the Legislation
and Intergovernmental Relations Committee of the District Board, that:
a. Is signed by the candidate;
b. Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
c. Is notarized;
d. Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute,
ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment;
e. Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills;
8. If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is
appointed, the candidate will notify the President and the District Board in writing within seven
(7) business days of the
change.
D. Terms of Members.
1. Ex-Officio Member.
The District Board Commissioner who is appointed as the ex-officio Member shall serve on the
Council for the length of the Commissioner’s term. Upon an appointment or election change for
the representative from the District Board, the President shall provide notice to the District Board
and the Council of any such change in ex-officio Member appointment.
2. The remaining Members. The Chairperson and the other remaining nine (9) Members of the
Council shall serve terms as follows
a. For the Initial Members,
1. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, with the advice
and consent of the District Board, other than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a
term that expires on December 31, 2015.
2. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, with the advice
and consent of the District Board, her than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a
term that expires on December 31, 2016.

Page 22 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

3. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President with the advice
and consent of the District Board, other than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a
term that expires on December 31, 2017.
4. The Chairperson initially elected by the Members also shall serve a term that
expires on December 31, 2017.
b. Thereafter, all Members including the Chairperson, but excluding the Ex-Officio
Member, appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years.
1. Each appointed Member, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office until a
successor is appointed, except in cases of removal.
2. Any appointed Member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a
vacancy caused by the expiration of the predecessor's term, shall serve until the
expiration of his or her predecessor's term.
E. Vacancy. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
a. Expiration of Member’s term,
b. Resignation,
c. Death,
d. Conviction of a felony, or
e. Removal from the office of an appointed Member as set forth in paragraph ‘F’ of this
Section.
F. Removal of Members. A Council Member may be removed for good cause by the President. Good
cause includes inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or any cause which renders the Member unfit
for the position or unable to perform the duties of the position. The President shall provide written notice
to that Member, the Conservation Council, the District Board, and the General Superintendent of the
proposed removal of that Member from the Council; such notice shall state the specific grounds which
constitute cause for removal. The Member, in receipt of such notice, may request to appear before the
District Board and present reasons in support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the District Board shall
vote upon whether there are sufficient grounds to remove that Member from office. The President shall
notify the subject Member of the final action of the District Board.
G. Officers. The Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers: (1) Chairperson, (2)
Vice-Chairperson and (3) Secretary. The Chairperson. Vice Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the
Council. Each of the three officers, respectively, shall be entitled to vote on all matters before the Council
and may be appointed to serve successive terms as officers. The Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and
Secretary shall serve for one year terms.
H. Duties of officers.
1. The Chairperson shall:
a. Preside at all meetings, when present;
b. Execute all documents relating to Council policy or designate such responsibility as
warranted;
c. Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
d. Perform any other agenda duties as directed by the Council.

Page 23 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

2. The Vice-Chairperson shall act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence.
In the event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall succeed to
this office for the unexpired term or until the President brings forth another appointment that is
recommended by the Nominating Committee and approved by the District Board.
3. The Secretary shall maintain the Council records, including notices for and minutes of
meetings and hearings.
I. The Council may create standing or ad hoc Subcommittees. The Chairperson may appoint non-voting
members to those subcommittees. The District shall assign appropriate staff to the Council so that the
Council may further and carry out its purposes and activities.
J. Disclosure of interests required.
1. Any Member, who has direct or indirect interest in any contract or transaction with the District,
shall disclose this interest in writing to the Council which shall, in turn, notify the President and
the District Board of such interest.
2. This interest shall be set forth in the minutes of the Council and the Member having such
interest shall not participate on behalf of the Council in any way with regard to such contract or
transaction unless the Council or District Board waives the conflict.
3. The Cook County Board of Ethics shall have jurisdiction over the investigation and
enforcement of this section and over the sanctions for violations as set forth in Sections1-13-4
and 1-13-5 of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of Ethical Conduct.
1-18-3 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
A. Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing individuals to serve as Members shall include:
1. Background and skills needed on the Council including, but not limited to expertise in one or
more of the following:
a. Conservation (practice)
b. Ecology (science)
c. Education/interpretation
d. Cultural resources/archeology/historic preservation
e. Management/business
f. Eco- or heritage tourism/market feasibility analysis
g. Finance
h. Public policy and planning
i. Outdoor recreation
j. Health and wellness
k. Volunteer management
l. High level government experience
m. Working knowledge of the District, Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo and/or
other culturally significant institutions affiliated with, or supportive of, the
District’s statutorily defined purpose.
2. Resident of Cook County, Illinois;
3. Availability and willingness to attend Council meetings quarterly; and
Page 24 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

4. Ability and willingness to:
a. Learn sufficient details about District management and operations in order to
effectively evaluate proposed actions and reports; and
b. Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chairperson of the Council.
1-18-3 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Council. Thereafter, the Members shall prescribe the
times and places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special meetings may be called.
B. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be
held annually.
C. A majority of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Council shall
require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting Members of the Council present and voting at the
meeting at which the action is taken.
D. The Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.
E. The Council shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act, as now or hereafter amended,
and found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
F. The Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 50
ILCS 205/1, et seq., as well as the Freedom of Information Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found
at 5 ILCS 140/1, et seq.
G. The Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on its website.
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The Council shall submit to the District Board, the President, and the Superintendent an annual report
prior to the end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be:
1. any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which may be necessary to
carry out the mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to conservation issues; and
2. a report on the progress of the District towards meeting the specific goals set forth in the Plan.
C. The Council shall submit the minutes of its meetings to the District Board within 30 days of each
meeting. The minutes shall be received and filed by the District Board.
****
TITLE 2
FOREST PRESERVE LANDS AND PROEPRTY
CHAPTER 1 AVIATION IN FOREST PRESERVES
CHAPTER 2 PROTECTION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND WILDLIFE
Page 25 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners
CHAPTER 3
CHAPTER 4
CHAPTER 5

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

TRESPASS AND USE OF PROERPTY
RECREATION IN FOREST PRESERVES
AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY

***
CHAPTER 5 – AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
2-5-1: PURPOSE
2-5-2: REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF FOREST PRESERVE LAND
2-5-3: SALE OF SURPLUS FOREST PRESERVE LAND
2-5-4: TRANSFER OF LAND
2-5-5: ANNEXATION
2-5-6: EMINENT DOMAIN
2-5-7: EASEMENTS
2-5-8: REQUIRED REVIEW FACTORS
***
2-5-8 – REQUIRED REVIEW FACTORS
A.

Various factor will be considered in reviewing a proposed transfer, sale, easement, or use of land
including (a) the interest of the District,; (b) the benefits to the public in relation to the burden
imposed on the District; (c) the land management policies of the District; (d) the protection,
preservation, restoration and restocking of the trees, forests, property, flora, fauna, wildlife,
natural resources and scenic beauties of the District; (e) the safety and general welfare of the
public and of the Applicant; and (f) such other factors as the District deems relevant to the
particular case. The Board of Commissioners recognizes that each situation and request is unique.
Any action taken by the Board of Commissioners or the General Superintendent under this
Ordinance is dependent upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case.
1.

The General Superintendent with the Planning and Development Department shall review
any land conveyance proposal and prepare a report for the Board of Commissioners of the
Cook County Forest Preserve District, who may refer the matter to the Citizens' Advisory
Committee and the Real Estate Committee. The report shall review the proposal in terms
of the factors outlined in A (above) and compatibility with the mission of the Cook County
Forest Preserve District. No land conveyance proposal shall be acted upon by the Board
without such report. The General Superintendent shall, on a regular basis, forward a list of
the rejected proposals to the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District.

2.

Proposals deemed to be in accordance with the mission of the Forest Preserve District
shall be referred to the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District who may
refer the matter to the appropriate committee(s) including the Citizen's Advisory
Committee and the Real Estate Committee. The committee recommendations shall be
forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for action. No land conveyance proposal shall
be acted upon by the Board without such committee(s) recommendation(s).

Page 26 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

B.

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Public Notice.
1.

Notice of any proposals regarding conveyance of the land and all meetings in relation to
said use or conveyance shall be made public. No less than three (3) full business days
before any meeting of the Board or a committee or subcommittee, notice shall be provided
to all Commissioners and to all news media and organizations that have requested notice
of Board meetings and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary
(FPD Code 1-5-4). The website of the Cook County Forest Preserve District shall also
include a dedicated page listing all real estate acquisitions and proposed transfer, sale,
easement or use of land. The page shall be updated in a timely manner as action is taken.
In addition, notice shall be posted at the location of the proposed land conveyance.

2.

All meetings of the Citizens Advisory Committee shall be open to the public in accordance
with the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).

***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon approval and adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
be Adopted as Amended by Substitution. The motion carried by the following vote:
Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this committee
be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN

File 14-0375……………..………………………………….….Recommended for Approval as Substituted
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Committee Report be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Page 27 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0440
Real Estate Committee Report

Monday, September 8, 2014

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, García, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Goslin (4)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice Chairman Gorman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107 (dd)
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
14-0331
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
(“the
Preserves”) to grant a temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at the
northeast corner of Illinois Route 50 (Cicero Ave.) and Vollmer Road for use of 0.066 Acre or 2,890
square feet.
Reason: IDOT has requested the temporary easement to construct a paved shared use trail connection
from the existing crosswalk at the northeast corner of Illinois Route 50 (Cicero Ave.) and Vollmer
Road to the Tinley Creek Paved Trail. Construction of the
shared use trail will connect the existing
FPCC Trail on the north side of Vollmer Road to a signalized crosswalk connecting to the existing
sidewalk on the south side of Vollmer Road.
Construction of the trail connection will improve the public’s access to the Tinley
Creek Paved
Trail and encourage the use of the crosswalks at the signalized intersection. IDOT will construct the
trail connection at no cost to the Preserves. The Preserves will accept future maintenance responsibility
Page 28 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

for the portion of the trail
connection on the Preserves property.
The area for the permanent easement is 0.066 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are
removed for this project.

expected to be

Easement Fee: None
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Comptroller and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 5
Legislative History: 7/22/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
.
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this
Easement Request be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, García, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Goslin (4)

14-0332
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (“the
Preserves”) to
grant a temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at the southwest
corner of Illinois Route 43 (Harlem Ave.) and 47th Street
for the use of 0.030 Acre or 1,320square
feet.
Reason: IDOT has requested the temporary easement to construct a paved shared use trail connection
from a proposed crosswalk at the southwest corner of Illinois Route 43 (Harlem Ave.) and 47th Street
to the Salt Creek Greenway Paved Trail. Construction of the shared use trail will connect the existing
Preserve Trail on the west side of Harlem Ave. to a signalized crosswalk connecting to the existing
sidewalk on the east
side of Harlem Ave.
Construction of the trail connection will improve the public’s access to the Salt Creek Greenway Paved
Trail and encourage the use of the crosswalks at the signalized intersection. IDOT will construct the trail
connection at no cost to the Preserves. The Preserves will accept future maintenance responsibility for
the portion of the trail connection on the Preserves property.
The area for the permanent easement is 0.030 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are
removed for this project.

Page 29 of 67

expected to be

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Easement Fee: None
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Comptroller and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 16
Legislative History: 7/22/14

FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this
Easement Request be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, García, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Goslin (4)

14-0333
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor, to grant a License to AT&T, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain 300 linear feet of
underground 4-inch conduit to contain fiber optic cable along 167th Street in Oak Forest. The proposed
facilities will provide a source of high speed internet, video, and improved telephone service for residents
south of the Preserves. The location of the conduit will be confined to the existing right of way of 167th
Street. The conduit will be installed underground by directional bore to minimize surface disturbance.
AT&T will also remove their existing cabinet on the Preserves property installed in 1980 under License
No. 1188; there will be no visible structures on the Preserves property.
Term: 10 (Ten) Years
License Fee: $7,024.79
License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $11,424.79 for the term of the License
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.103 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Comptroller and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Page 30 of 67

(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 6
Legislative History: 7/22/14

FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this
License Request be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, García, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Goslin (4)

14-0374
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOREST PRESERVE LANDS AND PROPERTY
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances to facilitate
the ability of owners of residential property adjacent to land owned by the Preserves to obtain a license to
allow them to continue to maintain building or other structures on land owned by the Preserves under
certain very limited
circumstances.
BE IT ORDAINED , by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners,
that
Title 2 - Forest Preserve Lands and Property, Chapter 3 - Trespass and Use of Property, Section
1 - Erection and Ownership of Structures of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Chapter 3 -Trespass and Use of Property.
2-3-1: ERECTION AND OWNERSHIP OF STRUCTURES.
2-3-2: DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
2-3-3: GOODS AND VEHICLES AS OBSTRUCTIONS.
2-3-4: OBSTRUCTING USE OF PREMISES.
2-3-5: DUMPING GARBAGE; LITTERING.
2-3-6: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
2-3-7: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
2-3-8: GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINER ORDINANCE.
2-3-9: PENALTY.
2-3-1: ERECTION AND OWNERSHIP OF STRUCTURES.

Page 31 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A. Permit to Erect; License to Use: No person shall stage any equipment or erect, construct or maintain
any fence, building or other structure within the Forest Preserve District, or assert any right to the
exclusive use and occupancy of any structure or any portion of said structure, without first having
obtained a permit in writing from the District for the staging of equipment, or erection, construction or
maintenance of such fence, building or other structure, or a license for the use and occupancy of such
property. Where private property, located adjacent to property of the Forest Preserve District, benefits
from an unlawful fence, building or other structure within the Forest Preserve District, described in this
Chapter, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner of the private property is responsible for
the erection, construction or maintenance of the unlawful fence, building or other structure.
B. Structures on Property of District; Authority: Any fence, building or other structure erected, whether
lawfully or unlawfully, shall immediately become the property of the Forest Preserve District, and the use
or tenancy of any structure or land may be terminated at any time when, in the discretion of the District,
it is in the best interests of the public and of the Forest Preserve District to so terminate such use or
tenancy. Any such structure, whether erected lawfully or unlawfully, may be removed or destroyed by the
Forest Preserve District, unless otherwise provided in said permit or license.
C. Unless otherwise approved by the Board, any permit issued pursuant to this section shall at a
minimum include a fee based upon a per day square footage use as calculated from the annual cost per
acre fee for licenses as stated in
Title 5 Chapter 2 of this Code.
D. Residential Land Use License - Extreme Hardship: Upon receipt of a citation for violating the
provisions of this Section, the owner of a residential parcel of real estate, on which a significant building
or structure was erected that encroaches on land owned or controlled by the District, may apply to the
District for a limited, non-assignable, renewable license to allow the building or structure to remain on
land owned or controlled by the District for up to ten (10) years under the following circumstances: (1)
the owner complies with the land use licensing requirements of Title 5, Chapter 2, Article A of the
District’s Code of Ordinances (except for the application fee, which shall not be required, referenced in
Section 5-2A-1); (2) the encroaching building or structure was not erected by the current owner seeking
such license and the encroaching building or structure was erected prior to the current owner’s acquisition
of the relevant adjacent parcel to which the encroaching building or structure has been associated; (3) the
owner provides proof, as shall be determined by the General Superintendent or his designee, that
immediate removal of the building or other structure would result in a undue hardship; (4) the owner
agrees to remove or tear down the encroaching building or structure prior to, or in connection with, the
sale or transfer of the relevant adjacent property.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 7/22/14

FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this
Ordinance Amendment be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, García, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Goslin (4)

Page 32 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this
committee meeting be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN
File 14-0331
File 14-0332
File 14-0333
File 14-0374

Recommended for Approval
Recommended for Approval
Recommended for Approval
Recommended for Approval
____________________end

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Committee Report be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0441
Report of the Finance Subcommittee on Labor
Monday, September 8, 2014

9:40 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Vice Chairman García, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice Chairman García asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
14-0385
Page 33 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances to clarify the
required participants for apprenticeship programs in order to be deemed a responsible bidder.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Prese4rve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners that Title
1 – Administration, Chapter 8 – District Finances, Section 2 – Contracts and Purchases, Subsection S-5
of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Chapter 8 – District Finances
1-8-1: Receipts of Money
1-8-2 Contracts and Purchases

1-8-3: Wage Rates for Public Works Employee.
1-8-4 Property Tax Relief
1-8-5 Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprises
****
S.
Responsible bidder for bids for construction, maintenance, and repair of public works shall mean
a bidder who meets all of the job specifications, the following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of
such compliance:
1.

All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the State of Illinois.

2.

Evidence of compliance with:
a.
Federal Employer Tax Identification Number or Social Security Number
(for individuals);
b.
Provision of Section 2000(E) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the United States
Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by Executive Order
No. 11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity Employer Provisions).

3. Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverage; general liability, workers compensation,
completed operation, automobile, hazardous occupation, product liability and professional liability
insurance.
4. Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, including wages, medical and
hospitalization insurance, and retirement for those trades covered in the Act.
5. Active apprenticeship and training programs approved and registered with the United States
Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for each of the trades of work
contemplated under the awarded contract for all bidders, General Contractors, and/or subcontractors.
6. Certified payrolls as specified in 820 ILCS 130/5 for all contractors and subcontractors.

Page 34 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

For purposes of this Section 1-8-2(S), the terms "public works" and "construction" shall have the
meanings set forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/2. Moreover, it is expressly
understood that the term "public works" shall not include snow removal, landscaping, tree trimming, and
tree removal unless such activities are done in conjunction with, or in preparation for, new construction or
the repair, maintenance, assembly or disassembly of equipment owned or leased by the District.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 7/22/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor.

A motion was made by Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that this
Ordinance Amendment be Approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman García, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (3)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this
committee be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman García, Commissioners Gainer, Reyes and Sims (4)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (3)
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File 14-0385………………………………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that this
Committee Report be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0442
Report of the Rules Committee
Tuesday, September 9, 2014

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

Page 35 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Gainer,
Schneider, Silvestri and Steele (7)

Absent:

Commissioners Fritchey and Sims (2)
(Commissioner Daley noted that Commissioner Sims had a medical excuse.)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.
There were no public speakers.
14-0455
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD, Matthew B. DeLeon, presented in printed form a record of the Journal
of Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 7/22/2014.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Journal of
Proceedings be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Gainer,
Schneider, Silvestri and Steele (7)

Absent:

Commissioners Fritchey and Sims (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
meeting be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:
Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Gainer,
Schneider, Silvestri and Steele (7)
Absent:

Commissioners Fritchey and Sims (2)

Page 36 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
File Id Number 14-0455 ………………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Committee Report be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0463
Report of the Finance Committee
Tuesday, September 9, 2014

10:00 AM Sagawau Environmental Learning
Center 12545 West 111th Street, Lemont, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)
There were no public speakers.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
14-0459
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Committee Date: July 22, 2014
Proposed Settlements Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:

Page 37 of 67

$232,161.92

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Proposed Settlements to Be Approved:
$116,418.51
Legal Fees Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:
Legal Fees for 7/22/2014to be approved:

September 9, 2014

$418,718.40
$86,562.56

*For details on payment approvals by the Litigation Subcommittee, refer to the Litigation
Subcommittee Report for 7/22/2014.
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Committee Date: September 8, 2014
Proposed Settlements Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:
Proposed Settlements to Be Approved:
Legal Fees Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:
Legal Fees for 9/8/2014 To Be Approved:

$348,581.43
$5,066.04
$505,280.96
$43,801.88

*For details on payment approvals by the Litigation Subcommittee, refer to the Litigation
Subcommittee Report for 9/8/2014.
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this
Committee Report be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0460
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation
Committee Date: 9-8-2014
Workers’ Compensation Claims Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:
Lien Recovery Approved Fiscal Year 2014 to Present:
Workers’ Compensation Claims to Be Approved:

$223.201.68
$25,000.00
$90,000.00

*For details on payment approvals by the Workers Compensation Subcommittee, refer to the
Workers Compensation Subcommittee Report for 9/8/2014.
A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this
Committee Report be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

Page 38 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

DISBURSEMENTS
14-0414
Department(s): Planning & Development
Action: Disbursement Approval
Payee: Matthew Paving Inc., Oak Lawn, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Fiscal Impact: $200,920.05
Accounts: Recreation (Landscape Improvements), 25-6760
Contract Number(s): 13-80-02-01C4
Summary: Districtwide Picnic Groves Drainage & Accessibility
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Disbursement
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0421
Department(s): Resource Management
Action: Request to disburse payment
Payee: University of Illinois, Champaign, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Developing Natural and Cultural Resources Master Plan
Fiscal Impact: $256,167.42, Contract is not to exceed $1.3 million for completion of the initial plan.
Funding of additional work under the IGA would be approved by the Board on a year to year basis with a
maximum of (5) years.
Accounts: Habitat Restoration, 09-6750
Contract Number(s): FPD 2014-01101
Summary: The Prairie Research Institute of the University of Illinois is developing the Natural and
Cultural Resources Master Plan to be completed, produced and distributed by 12/31/2014 as part of the
celebration of the 100th Anniversary of the Forest Preserves of Cook County.

Page 39 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Disbursement
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0462
Department(s): Planning & Development
Action: Disbursement Approval
Payee: Plata Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Fiscal Impact: $249,859.81
Accounts: 25-6710 Building Account
Contract Number(s): 13-80-01-G3R3
Summary: North Police HQ., Highland Woods Golf Course, Crabtree Nature Center, Deer Grove
Subdivision HQ and Northwest Resource Management
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Disbursement
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

BID RECOMMENDATIONS
14-0399
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Resource Management
Request: authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a contract
with Vega Tree Service, Northlake, Illinois.
Reason: Contract #14-31-106N consists of the removal of hazardous trees and emergency response on a
time and materials basis in the north region of the Preserves.
Bid Opening Date: 7/25/2014

Page 40 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Bid Results:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Vega Tree Service
Winklers Tree & Landscape
Trees R’ Us
Groundskeeper Landscape

$61.92/hr
$70.11/hr
$75.00/hr
$89.95/hr

Estimated Fiscal Impact: the combined total of contract #14-31-106N, #14-31-106C and #14-31-106S
will not exceed $500,000.00 in a calendar year.
Contract Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2019
Account Name/Number: Vegetation Management, 09-6754
District: Districtwide
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance provision.
The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Officer have approved this item.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0401
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Resource Management
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a
contract with Winkler’s Tree Service, Hillside, Illinois.
Reason: Contract #14-31-106C consists of the removal of hazardous trees and emergency response on a
time
and materials basis in the central region of the Preserves.
Bid Opening Date: 7/25/2014
Bid Results:
1. Winkler’s Tree Service
2. Groundskeeper Landscape
3. Trees R Us

$67.27/hr
$79.36/hr
$115.00/hr

Estimated Fiscal Impact: The combined total of contract #14-31-106N, #14-31-106C, and #14-31-106S
will not exceed $500,000 in a calendar year.

Page 41 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Contract Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2019
Account Name/Number: Vegetation Management, 09-6754
District: Districtwide
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance provision.
The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Officer have approved this item.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0402
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Resource Management
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a
contract with Groundskeeper Landscape, Orland Park, Illinois
Reason: Contract #14-31-106S consists of the removal of hazardous trees and emergency response on a
time and materials basis in the south region of the preserves
Bid Opening Date: 7/25/2014
Bid Results:
1. Groundskeeper Landscape
2. Winkler’s Tree Service
3. Trees R Us

$68.75/hr
$68.81/hr
$135.00/hr

Estimated Fiscal Impact: The combined total of contract #14-31-106N, #14-31-106C, and #14-31-106S
will not exceed $500,000.00 in a calendar year.
Contract Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2019
Account Name/Number: Vegetation Management / 09-6754
District: Districtwide
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance provision.
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Page 42 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0411
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Planning & Development
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to enter
into a contract with Path Construction, Inc., Arlington Heights, Illinois, for building and related site
improvements at the Preserves Rolling Knolls Welcome Center near Elgin.
Reason: Contract 13-80-01 G7R3 Re-Bid is for the Preserve’s new Rolling Knolls Welcome Center.
The proposed project is to demolish a portion of the existing clubhouse that is no longer useable, remodel
the remaining portion of the existing clubhouse building, build an addition to the existing clubhouse and
to reconstruct the existing parking area. The proposed project includes but is not limited to the
development of a meeting room with a warming kitchen, a multipurpose room, new ADA toilet facilities,
a small office area to support the facility and improved site drainage for the parking area and around the
building. This facility also includes the use of geothermal heating system and photovoltaic panels, both
of which are being partially funded by a grant from Illinois Clean Energy Foundation. Another contract
will be let at a later date to construct additional site improvements around the property.
Bid Opening Date: 8/20/2014
Bid Results:
Firm
Base Bid
1. Poulos Inc.
$2,387,000.00
2. Path Construction Co, Inc. $2,397,000.00
3. Simpson Construction Co.
$2,583,500.00
4. Cornerstone Contracting, Inc. $2,829,000.00

Recommended
Add Alternate Bid
$2,513,000.00 *
$2,595,200.00
$2,650,800.00
$2,997,000.00

*The compliance administrator deemed Poulos Inc. as a non-responsive bidder for lack of MBE/WBE
participation.
A total of six (6) alternate bid items were requested with the Bid Proposal. The Preserves desires to
include two (2) items in the scope of this contract. The bid recommendation is to award the contract with
add alternates #2 & #5: #1: Construct a landscaped dry creek, #2: Construct geo-thermal system in lieu of
air cooled system, #3: Delete installation of new shade and evergreen trees, #4: Delete installation of
shrubs, #5 Construct roofing system with cedar roof deck in lieu of specified system and #6: Install
bollard lighting at front entry sidewalk.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,595,200.00

Page 43 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Contract Period: Three hundred thirty (330) days from notice to proceed
Account Name/Number: Building Accounts 25-6710, 51-6710, 52-6710, 54-6710 & Grant Account
10-6710
District: 15
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0412
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Department of Resource Management
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a
contract with Vega Tree Service, Northlake, Illinois
Reason: Contract number 14-31-111 consist of the removal, topping or pruning of eight hundred and
forty seven (847) trees, which includes forty three (43) that require stumping and twenty four (24)
additional stumps (due mostly to impacts from the Emerald Ash Borer), in accordance with the Preserves’
specifications in Region 9, Calumet Division. Vega Tree Service, Northlake, Illinois, was the lowest
responsive and responsible of the two (2) bidders.
Bid Opening Date: 8/15/2014
Bid Results:
1. Vega Tree Service
2. Homer Tree Service

$86,000.00
$191,462.50

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $86,000.00
Contract Period: Sixty (60) working days from notice to proceed.
Account Name/Number: EAB Tree Removal/09-6756
District(s): 3,4,5,6, and 11
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance provision.
Page 44 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Officer have approved this item.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

14-0424
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Department: Planning and Development
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a
contract with Industria, Inc. in Chicago, Illinois for George Dunne National Trail patching repairs and
parking lot pavement repairs.
Reason: Contract 14-80-25R, George Dunne National Trail patching repairs and parking lot pavement
repair, work includes, but is not limited to, full depth trail pavement patching at the Tinley Creek Paved
Trail surrounding George Dunne National Golf Course and a connecting path to Bremen Grove, removal
and resurfacing parking lot pavement at George Dunne National Golf Course parking lot, drainage
improvements, backfilling, landscaping, striping and other related work as specified in the plans and
specifications.
Bid Opening Date: 8/20/2014
Bid Results:
1. Outlook Design & Construction, Inc.
2. Industria, Inc.
3. Pavement Systems Inc.
4. Century Contractors, Inc.
5. Crowley-Sheppard Asphalt, Inc.
6. Cornerstone Contracting, Inc.

$143,296.64*
$174,175.00
$174,550.00
$183,075.00
$194,227.00
$397,000.00

*Outlook Design & Construction, Inc. has been found to be non-responsive.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $174,175.00
Contract Period: Sixty (60) days from notice to proceed
Account(s): Trails, 25-6780 and 54-6780
District(s): 17
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.

Page 45 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner García, that this Bid
Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

REVENUE REPORT
14-0432
Department: Finance
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Corporate Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expense Report
Report Period: 7/1/2014 - 7/31/2014
Summary: Detailed Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expense Report for July 2014
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this Report be
received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chair Steele, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this meeting was
adjourned.. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Goslin, Vice Chairman Steele, Daley, Gainer, García, Gorman, Moore, Reyes
Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski, County Commissioners (12)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Sims (5)
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN

File Id Number 14-0459……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0460……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0414……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0421……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
Page 46 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

File Id Number 14-0462……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0399……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0401……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0402……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0411……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0412……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0424……………………………………………….Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-0401………………………………………….Recommended for Receiving and Filing
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Committee Report be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT
14-0429
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Landscape Maintenance
Vendor: Waste Management of Illinois, Carol Stream, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to increase contract amount in
Region 1.
Good(s) or Service(s): Placement and service of Port-a-lets
Original Contract Period: 5/15/2012 - 4/14/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $130,096.00
Original Approval: 5/2/2012, $93,916.00
Previous Increase(s): 12/5/2012, $36,180.00
This Increase Requested: $35,000.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $10,000.00, FY 2015, $25,000.00

Page 47 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Accounts: Contractual and other Professional Services, 01-6217, Special Events Public Relations,
01-6260 and Mighty Acorn, 06-6222 and Volunteer Resource Program, 01-6228.
Contract Number(s): 12-51-105
Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: Port-a-lets placement and service in Districts 5, 6 and 11
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0430
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Landscape Maintenance
Vendor: Waste Management of Illinois, Carol Stream, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to increase contract
Region 4.

in

Good(s) or Service(s): Placement and service of Port-a-lets
Original Contract Period: 5/15/2012 - 4/14/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $100,251.00
Original Approval: 5/2/2012, $85,401.00
Previous Increase(s): 12/5/2012, $14,850.00
This Increase Requested: $31,000.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $10,000.00 and FY 2015, $21,000.00
Accounts: Contractual and Other Professional Services, 01-6217, Special Events Public Relations,
01-6260, Mighty Acorn, 01-6222 and Volunteer Resource Program, 01-6228
Page 48 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Contract Number(s): 12-51-108
Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: Placement and service for Pot-a-lets in Districts 14, 15 and 17
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0446
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Landscape Maintenance
Vendor: Hoving Pit Stop, Inc., West Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to increase contract
Region 2.

in

Good(s) or Service(s): Placement and service of Port-a-lets
Original Contract Period: 5/15/2012 - 4/14/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $167,278.00
Original Approval: 5/2/2012, $143,428.00
Previous Increase(s): $23,850.00
This Increase Requested: $30,500.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $20,000.00 and FY 2015, $10,500.00
Accounts: Contractual and Other Professional Services, 01-6217, Special Events Public Relations,
01-6260, Might Acorns, 01-6222 and Volunteer Resource Program, 01-6228.
Contract Number(s): 12-51-106
Page 49 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: Placement and service of Port-a-lets in Districts 9, 12, 13, 14 and 16
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0447
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Landscape Maintenance
Vendor: Service Sanitation, Gary, Indiana
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to increase contract Region3.
Good(s) or Service(s): Placement and service of Port-a-lets
Original Contract Period: 5/15/2012 - 4/14/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $202,895.00
Original Approval: 5/2/2012, $144,980.00
Previous Increase(s): $57,915.00
This Increase Requested: $35,500.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $15,000.00 and FY 2015, $20,500
Accounts: Contractual and Other Professional Services, 01-6217, Special Events Public Relations,
01-6260, Mighty Acorns, 01-6222 and Volunteer Resource Program, 01-6228.
Contract Number(s): 12-51-107
Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Page 50 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Summary: Placement and service for Port-a-lets in Districts 5, 6 and 17
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0407
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (“MWRD”) and The
Village of North Riverside, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with MWRD and The Village of
North Riverside, Illinois for Addison Creek streambank stabilization along 19th Avenue south of Cermak
Road.
Goods or Services: MWRD proposes to construct a streambank stabilization project on Forest Preserve
property along Addison Creek south of Cermak Avenue. MWRD will prepare all plans and specifications
and construct the project at its sole cost and expense. The Village of North Riverside will maintain the
stabilized bank along 19th Avenue at its sole cost and expense.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Continuous
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The project will prevent further erosion of Forest Preserve property and protect adjacent
19th Avenue infrastructure by installation of biostabilization measures.
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski

Page 51 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0408
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Law Enforcement
Other Part(ies): Cook County
Request: Permission to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: To have the Sheriff of Cook County and the Preserves share use of the
District’s police K-9 training facility located in the Tinley Creek Division, Burr Oak
Woods.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 1/1/2014, retroactively, - 12/31/2018, with automatic one year renewals.
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) and County of Cook, on behalf
of the Sheriff of Cook County, desire to have the Sheriff of Cook County and Preserves share use of the
District’s police K-9 training facility located in the Tinley Creek Division, Burr Oak Woods at 13801
South Harlem Avenue, Cook County, Illinois via a license agreement between the parties.
____________________end
A motion was made by Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0409
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Vendor: Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority (“Metra”)
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to
enter into an easement agreement
Page 52 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Reason: The Forest Preserve would like to construct and maintain a bicycle/pedestrian bridge over the
Metra railroad, near Forest Glen Woods in the City of Chicago tracks near MP 11.0, between Devon and
Foster Avenues, on Metra’s Milwaukee North Line. The Forest Preserve has been working to extend the
North Branch Bicycle Trail south approximately four miles, to connect to the City of Chicago’s Bike
Trail System. The North Branch Bicycle Trail is 18 miles in length, the Preserve’s longest linear trail
system, and one of the District’s most used bicycle trails.
As consideration for the easement, the Preserves has agreed to pay Metra one dollar ($1.00).
Contract period: Perpetual with the trail
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1.00
Account(s): N/A
Concurrence(s): The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 9
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Agreement be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0410
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Law Enforcement
Other Part(ies): Cook County
Request: Permission to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement and disburse the required
Goods or Services: To have Sheriff’s Merit Board conduct background investigations.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 8/1/2014 - 7/31/2015, retroactively with automatic one year renewals.
Fiscal Impact: Up to $15,000.00 per year

Page 53 of 67

funds.

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Accounts: Police Supply and Equipment Services, 01-6647
Summary: The Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) and County of Cook, on
behalf of the Sheriff of Cook County, desire to have Sheriff’s Merit Board conduct background
investigations of candidates for sworn law enforcement positions at the Preserves.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Agreement be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0416
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities and Fleet
Vendor: Burris Equipment, Frankfort, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into
and execute an agreement with Burris Equipment, the local distributor for Felling Trailers, Inc. Felling
Trailers, Inc. and its team of local distributors were awarded a contract by the National Joint Powers
Alliance (“NJPA”). The Preserves shall purchase Felling Trailers based on the prices, terms, and
conditions offered to members of the NJPA.
Good(s) or Service(s): Seven (7) 2014 Felling Trailers
Contract Value: $104,134.60
Contract period: 4/10/2014 - 4/10/2018
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $104,134.60
Accounts: Vehicles and Trucks, 09-6625
Contract Number(s): 031014-FTS
Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
Summary: This contract provides for seven (7) trailers to be purchased for use by Resource
Management. There are no MBE and/or WBE distributors for Felling Trailers Inc.
____________________
Page 54 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Contract
be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0417
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to Waste Management of Illinois, Inc. (“WMI”), Grantee, to locate, operate
and maintain two groundwater monitoring wells, one existing and one proposed, along Doty Avenue at
the Beaubien Woods Forest Preserve. The groundwater monitoring wells are to insure that the
groundwater quality is not affected by the nearby landfills.
Term: Ten (10) Years
License Fee: $3,400.00
License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $7,800.00 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: 0.004 Acre
Concurrence(s): The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 4
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, that this
License Request be referred to the Real Estate Committee. The motion carried by the following
vote:

Page 55 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0419
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to The Village of Niles, Illinois (“the Village”) to locate, operate and maintain
a 72-inch storm sewer and outfall structure to the North Branch Chicago River. The storm sewer is part
of a storm water relief program that also includes a detention basin and bioinfiltration facility on other
village property. The sewer will capture storm water runoff to relieve flooding and to reduce the
combined sewer overflow discharge. The request also includes licensing the existing combined sewer
overflow structure for which no license or agreement is known. The Village will also construct a new
ADA crosswalk on Caldwell Avenue at Cleveland Street with push button activated flashers, and a new
paved trail connection, along the route of the new storm sewer, to the existing North branch Trail. The
crossing will improve accessibility and safety and provide an alternative to the current use of the FPCC
driveway and parking lot to access the trail.
Term: Continuous
License Fee: $23,439.39
License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $27,339.39 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: $141,212.64
The area of the License is: 0.34 Acre
Concurrence(s): The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 13
____________________

Page 56 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this
License Request be referred to the Real Estate Committee. The motion carried by the following
vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0420
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), to
grant a License to The Village of River Forest, Illinois (the“Village”) to locate, operate and maintain a
storm sewer outfall structure on the east bank of the Des Plaines River, adjacent to Thatcher Avenue
approximately 400 feet south of North Avenue. The Village plans to construct a large scale sewer
separation project in the adjacent neighborhood to reduce flooding in the area and to improve water
quality in the FPCC and Des Plaines River by reducing combined sewer overflow discharges. The Village
will also stabilize and replant the bank area at the outfall.
Term:

Continuous

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $7,300.00 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: $7,227.03
The area of the License is: 0.02 Acre
Concurrence(s): The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 9
____________________
Page 57 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
License Request be referred to the Real Estate Committee. The motion carried by the following
vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0434
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED GRANT APPLICATION AUTHORIZATION REQUEST
Department: Planning and Development
Grantee: Forest Preserves of Cook County
Grantor: Illinois Department of Natural Resources
Request: Authorization to apply for grant
Purpose: The Forest Preserve District of Cook County proposes to apply for a Boat Access Area
Development (“BAAD”) Grant from the Illinois Department of Natural Resources that would support the
development of a canoe launch at Busse Lake in the Ned Brown Preserve in Elk Grove Village, Illinois.
Grant Amount: $80,000.00
Grant Period: April 2015 - June 2017
Fiscal Impact: $36,370.00
Account(s): Recreation (Landscape Improvements ), 25-6760
Concurrences: The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: This project would increase access to Busse Lake for paddling, expand the Preserves’
programmatic capacity, and advance the goals of the Forest Preserves’ Centennial Campaign Plan to
increase healthy outdoor recreation opportunities.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Grant
Application Authorization Request be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
Page 58 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

* * * * *
14-0438
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZED SIGNATORIES
WHEREAS, the FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY (the “Preserves”) has
authorized various banks as depositories of its accounts;
WHEREAS, from time to time, the Preserves may also seek to open lines of credit or purchase appeal
bonds from various insurers, bond companies or other institutions to cover the costs of judgments against
the Preserves in the event the Preserves, upon Board approval, decides to appeal such judgments;
WHEREAS, the various banks that serve as depositories of the Preserves’ accounts require the manual or
facsimile signature of duly elected or appointed Officers of the Preserves for the warrants, checks drafts
or other orders on these accounts;
WHEREAS, the various insurers, bond companies and other institutions with whom the Preserves may
seek to open a line of credit, or from whom the Preserves may seek to purchase an appeal bond, may
require the manual or facsimile signatures of duly elected or appointed Officers of the Preserves in order
to allow the Preserves to establish lines of credit or purchase appeals bonds;
WHEREAS, from time to time, based on changes in Preserves personnel, it is necessary to advise banks,
insurers, bond companies and other institutions of changes to the list of elected or appointed Officers of
the Preserves who are authorized to sign on behalf of the Preserves in order to allow the Preserves to issue
checks, warrants or other orders with respect to Preserves bank accounts; establish lines of credit; or
purchase appeals bonds;
WHEREAS, upon approval, this Resolution shall supersede the prior Resolution, Item No. 14-0266,
which was approved by the Board of Commissioners of the Preserves on May 20, 2014 regarding
authorized signatures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective as of the date this resolution is approved by
the Board of Commissioners of the Preserves, the manual or facsimile signatures of any three of the
following officers shall appear on all lines of credit opened; appeal bonds purchased; or warrants, checks,
drafts or other orders drawn on the bank accounts or other accounts of the Preserves:

PRESIDENT, TONI PRECKWINKLE
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT, ARNOLD RANDALL
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, STEPHEN C. HUGHES
COMPTROLLER, TIMOTHY HICKS
TREASURER, STEPHEN C. HUGHES

Page 59 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

provided, however, that one signature must be that of either the Treasurer or the Chief Financial Officer
that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby do what you are suggesting or endorsing with
this resolution; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the banks, insurers, bond companies, sureties or other institutions
authorized as lenders, depositories, or sureties of the Preserves shall be entitled to honor and to charge the
Preserves, for such lines of credit, appeal bonds, warrants, checks, drafts or other orders whenever such
documents shall be signed manually or by facsimile by any three of the following six officers of the
Preserves:
PRESIDENT, TONI PRECKWINKLE
GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT, ARNOLD RANDALL
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, STEPHEN C. HUGHES
COMPTROLLER, TIMOTHY HICKS
TREASURER, STEPHEN C. HUGHES
provided, however, that one signature is that of the Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Resolution be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0431
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR)
Report Period: Fiscal Year Ending 12/31/2013
Summary: Audit Report
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Page 60 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0433
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Procurements and Disbursements Report for July 2014
Report Period: 7/1/2014 - 7/31/2014
Summary: The Procurements and Disbursements Report for July 2014 is to be received and filed in
compliance with Section 1-8-2 (BB) of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County’s Code of
Ordinances.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0435
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: General Office, Forest Preserve Foundation
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Conservation Cup Status Report
Report Period: 2014
Summary: Shelley Davis, Forest Preserve Foundation Executive Director will provide a detailed status
report.
____________________

Page 61 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0451
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Submitting Report for the Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Forest Preserve of Cook County MBE/WBE Expenditures Report
Report Period: 1/1/2014 - 6/30/2014
Summary: Submitting report for referral to the Contract Compliance Committee.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0453
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Submitting Report for the Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Chicago Zoological Society MBE/WBE Expenditure Report
Report Period: 1/1/2014 through 6/30/2014
Summary: Submitting report for referral to the Contract Compliance Committee.
Page 62 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0454
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Submitting Report for the Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Chicago Botanic Garden MBE/WBE Expenditure Report
Report Period: 1/1/2014 through 6/30/2014
Summary: Submitting report for referral to the Contract Compliance Committee.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Report
be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0422
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Friday through Sunday, 9/ 12 -9/ 14, 10 am to 4:30 pm
Roadside Flower Sale, Chicago Botanic Garden, Burnstein Hall Garden, Glencoe Select from
more than 300 arrangements and wreaths, crafted by volunteers and featuring
dried flowers, pods, and
grasses.
Saturday, 9/13, 8 am to 2 pm
Fishin’ Buddies Fall Fishing Derby, Wampum Lake, I,90/94 & Thornton Lansing Rd,
Thornton-Lansing
Page 63 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

This annual family fishing derby is perfect for all skill levels. Register at fbderby.com
Saturday, 9/13, 1 pm
Monarch Migration, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, 12545 W. 111th St,
Lemont
Why do monarch butterflies travel over 2,000 miles to the mountains of Central Mexico in the
Learn what cues they use to begin their journey south.
Saturday, 9/13, 2 pm to 4 pm
North Branch Trail Addition Celebration, Chicago Botanic Garden, Across from the
McDonald Woods Pavilion, Glencoe
Celebrate the opening of this multi-use trail which provides the “missing link” between the
Branch and the Green Bay trails.
Saturday, 9/13, 10 am to 8 pm, Grand Entries at Noon and 6 pm
Sunday, 9/14, 10 am to 5 pm, Grand Entry at Noon
61st Annual American Indian Pow Wow, Busse Woods South, Higgins Rd east of I,290,
Elk Grove Village
This event features Native American dance, drumming, food, art wares, films and fun. Don’t
traditional dance competitors from all over the country! In partnership with the American
Center of Chicago. Admission $10 - $15.

fall?

North

miss
Indian

Sunday, 9/14, 1 pm
Killer Plants & Murderous Mushrooms, Trailside Museum, 738 Thatcher Avenue, River
Forest Explore how some plants and fungi defend themselves, then follow a naturalist in search of
examples. Adults and kids 12 & up. Register by 9/12.
Saturday, 9/20, 10 am to 1 pm
Saganashkee Slough Paddle, Saganashkee Slough Boat Launch, 11672 W 107th St,
Lemont
Join our morning paddle as we take a look at the diverse habitats of this area.
Instruction provided. Call 708.771.1010 to reserve a spot.
Saturday, 9/20, 10 am to 3 pm
Archaeology Day, Sand Ridge Nature Center, 15891 Paxton Avenue, South Holland
Join us for activities that promote a better understanding and appreciation of historic Native American
culture. Enjoy archaeology displays, guided hikes, activities and crafts.
Saturday, 9/20 through Sunday, September 21, 2 pm to 10 am
Family Campout, Pulaski Woods, Wolf Road Complex, Willow Springs
In partnership with the Chicago Park District families can campout under the stars at Pulaski Woods and
participate in fun outdoor activities like canoeing, archery, hiking and more. Tents and a campfire meal
will be provided. Cook County families of up to 6 can register at
Experience.Nature@cookcountyil.gov <mailto:Experience.Nature@cookcountyil.gov>. There is a $50
fee per family group.
Saturday &Sunday, 9/20 & 9/21, 10 am to 4:30 pm
Illinois Gourd Society Show & Sale, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
See gourds of all shapes and sizes at this show and sale. The show includes themed and educational
displays. Society members and growers will be on hand to answer questions and vendors will sell crafted
gourds of all kinds in addition to dry gourds, seeds, tools, and
supplies.

Page 64 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Sunday, 9/21, 10 am to 4 pm
Art in Nature, Crabtree Nature Center, 3 Stover Road, Barrington
Watch artists as they paint along our trails. Listen to live music, view additional artwork for
vote for your favorite artist. Adults and kids, learn to create your own
artwork-materials and
instruction provided.

sale and

Wednesday, 9/24, 5 pm to 7 pm
Afterschool Outdoor Adventures: Tracking Nature Dan Ryan Woods Pavilion, 87th and Western, Chicago
Join us to investigate different habitats and look for native animal tracks. We’ll play games,
hike
and create our “own” tracks using a printmaking process. Calling all outdoor adventurers ages 7-12! Meet
up for outdoor skill building, hiking, exploring and nature-based art making.
Call 708.771.1010 to
reserve a spot.
Friday, 9/26, 7 pm
The Astronomer’s Night Sky, Sand Ridge Nature Center, 15891 Paxton Avenue, South
Holland
View planets and other celestial won-ders through a telescope, clear skies permitting. In the
poor skies, an astronomy lecture and slide show will be presented. Register by 9/24.
Saturday, 9/27, 6 pm to 9 pm
Family Night Out: Stars, Stories and S’Mores, Thatcher Woods, 8030 W Chicago
Avenue, River Forest
Bring the family and enjoy an evening in the forest. We’ll have a fire, storytelling, snacks and
nature activities.
Friday, 10/3, 5 pm to 7:30 pm
Friday Night Archery, Eggers Grove, 11201 S Avenue B, Chicago
Open to all levels of experience, beginner to expert. Learn from an instructor, share tips and
your skills. Ages 10 & up. Pack a picnic dinner and stay awhile.
Saturday, 10/4, 1 pm to 5 pm
Fall Paddle at Powderhorn Lake, Powderhorn Lake, 13843,14387 S Brainard, Burnham
Enjoy the fall season on the water! We’ll have a 10 passenger voyager canoe, guided hikes,
pumpkin painting.

event of

other

practice

and

Sunday, 10/5, 9 am to 5 pm
Annual Arts and Crafts Fair, Little Red School House, 9800 South 104th Avenue, Willow
Springs We’re celebrating our 49th year! Artists of all kinds, from painters to carvers to photographers,
will sell their creations that have been inspired by local nature.
Sunday, 10/5, 1:30 pm
All A Buzz About Honey, River Trail Nature Center, 3120 Milwaukee Avenue,
Northbrook
Meet River Trail’s beekeeper and learn about honeybees and their hives.
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, that this
Miscellaneous Item of Business be received and filed. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 65 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
NEW ITEMS
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this was
motion to suspend the rules.. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
14-0418
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE THE DISTRICT TO ENTER INTO THE LOCAL AGENCY AGREEMENT
COSTS FOR THE THORN CREEK BICYCLE TRAIL
WHEREAS, a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) has been awarded to the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County (the “District”) by the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) to
construct a 4.75 miles of the Thorn Creek Bicycle Trail (hereafter the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, on February 4, 2013, the Board of Commissioners authorized the District to enter into a
local agency agreement (the “Local Agency Agreement”), with the Illinois Department of Transportation
(“IDOT”) to pay 20% of the Phase III Construction Engineering costs associated with the Project,
estimated at $90,956; and
WHEREAS, on November 12, 2013, pursuant to the Local Agency Agreement the Board of
Commissioners authorized the District to pay the “IDOT” 20% of total construction cost for the entire
project estimated at $1,138,600.
WHEREAS, due to a pending agreement with the Canadian National Railroad the District started
construction of the trail segment from Sweet Woods in Glenwood to Hickory Street in Chicago Heights
which is the location of the future Old Plank Road Trail. This segment is referred to as Stage 1.
WHEREAS, now the District plans to proceed with Stage 2 construction from Hickory Street to 26th
Street in Chicago Heights which connects to the existing Sauk Trail and “IDOT” requires another Local
Agency Agreement. The additional Local Agency Agreement covers Stage 2 costs; however the
District’s funding participation does not increase.

Page 66 of 67

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

September 9, 2014

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County hereby authorize the District to enter into the Local Agency Agreement specific
to stage 2 construction.
District: 9
____________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Resolution be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy
* * * * *
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Ryes, that this Board
meeting be adjourned. The motion carried by the
following vote:
Ayes: 14 - Commissioners Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
Absent: 3 - Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Murphy

Page 67 of 67

 