MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
June 20, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, June 20, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:20 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele,
Lee Gould, and Chairman Aaron Jaffe. Member Holewinski was ill and was not present and did
not participate.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of May 23, 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Board and staff are working with the industry on a series
of rules pertaining to the redemption of vouchers at the casinos’cages.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Caleb Melamed’s presentation
Section 5 (c) (3) of the Riverboat Gambling Act [230 ILCS 10] confers rulemaking authority
upon the Illinois Gaming Board regarding riverboat gambling. At this June 20, 2013 open
meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board, the Board's legal staff is submitting proposals to amend
the Board's rules on riverboat gambling [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000] as follows:
Inclusion of unredeemed vouchers as part of adjusted gross receipts.
The proposed rulemaking adds a definition of "adjusted gross receipts" to Section 100 of the
riverboat gambling rules [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000.100 ("Definitions")]. Under the new
definition, "adjusted gross receipts" are defined as gross receipts less winnings paid to wagerers.
The definition further provides that the value of expired vouchers shall be included in computing
adjusted gross receipts.
Including the value of expired vouchers as part of adjusted gross receipts conforms with standard
accounting practice in the gaming industry.

 Printing of vouchers at a cashier cage.
Sections 100 and 640 of the riverboat gambling rules [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000.100
("Definitions") and 3000.640 ("Exchange of Chips, Tokens, and Vouchers")] currently authorize
the issuance of vouchers solely by means of a voucher printer connected to an electronic gaming
device. In keeping with the practice at some casinos, the proposed rule change will amend these
sections to allow vouchers also to be printed at a cashier cage.
Use of promotional coupons.
This proposed change to Section 600 of the riverboat gambling rules [86 Ill. Admin. Code
3000.600 ("Wagering Only with Electronic Credits, Approved Chips, Tokens and Electronic
Cards")] authorizes the use of promotional coupons in connection with table games and deletes
current language allowing the use of match play coupons. The difference between a match play
coupon and a promotional coupon is that a match play coupon must be used in conjunction of the
play of a chip, whereas a promotional coupon may be used in place of a chip. Under the
proposed rulemaking, promotional coupons may only be used as wagers as set forth in an owner
licensee's Internal Control System.
Proposed Amendments to the Riverboat Gambling Rules –
Member Vander Weele moved to authorize staff to amend the Board’s rules on
Riverboat Gambling, Section 100 regarding Definitions; Section 600 regarding
Wagering Only with Electronic Credits, Approved Chips, Tokens and Electronic
Cards; and Section 640 regarding Exchange of Chips, Tokens and Vouchers, by
submitting a proposal for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final
review and approval by the Administrator. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ITEM FOR INITIAL CONSIDERATION – Casino Queen, Inc. Owner’s License Renewal
A Power Point presentation was made for the renewal of Casino Queen, Inc. Owner’s License
Renewal.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Boyd Gaming Corporation – Financing Transaction
Based on staff’s investigation and pursuant to Rule 230(d), Member Gould moved
to approve Boyd Gaming Corporation’s request for approval of Par-A-Dice
Gaming Corporation as a Subsidiary Guarantor of Boyd Gaming
Corporation’s $1.75 billion Senior Credit Facility, and an Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement which refinances Boyd’s previous credit
agreement and is comprised of a $600 million revolving credit facility, a $150
million Term Loan ‘A’ facility, and a $1.0 billion Term Loan ‘B’ facility.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 •

The Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton - Jason A. Taylor,
Regional Director of Internal Audit for Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Key
Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Jason A. Taylor as a Key Person of The Alton Gaming Company
d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton in his position as Regional Director of Internal
Audit of Penn National Gaming, Inc., retroactive to May 23, 2013. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

•

Casino Queen, Inc. d/b/a Casino Queen – Marc J. Vanderweele – Director of
Table Games – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
Marc J. Vanderweele as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position
as Director of Table Games of Casino Queen, Inc. d/b/a Casino Queen.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumer’s Casino and Hotel – Jeffrey
C. Barton, Surveillance Director – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Jeffrey C. Barton as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his
position as Surveillance Director of The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a
Jumer’s Casino and Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Happ Controls, Inc. – James Michael Brendel, President – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve James
Michael Brendel as a Key Person of Happ Controls, Inc. in his position as
President. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board find
suitable and approve 39 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 89
applications for Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
• Occupational Licensees –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue Disciplinary
Complaints to revoke the Occupational Licenses of Ashley R. Kluber and Chad E.
Winiarczyk due to their conduct involving theft of a driver’s license from Rivers
Casino, said actions to take effect 21 days from the dates of service of the
Complaints unless either files an Answer within that time period. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
• Spielo International Canada ULC –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint to fine Spielo International Canada ULC $20,000.00 for
failing to timely file its Annual Submission to the Board. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

In re the Disciplinary Action of Vanessa Tabitha Andersen

Pursuant to Rule 1155, Member Gould moved for the adoption and entry of a Final
Board Order adopting the Administrative Law Judge’s Order granting the Board’s
Motion for Summary Judgment and affirming the fine issued to Occupational
Licensee Vanessa Tabitha Andersen. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 10:53 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Gould seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 