BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
BOARD AGENDA
for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, April 13, 2016, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver testimony
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3) minutes.
The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of
Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
COMMISSIONERS

16-2593
Sponsored by: LUIS ARROYO JR, County Commissioner, TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, JOHN
P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
BOYCOTTING THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA AND NORTH CAROLINA-BASED
BUSINESSES
WHEREAS, on March 23, 2016, the State of North Carolina adopted the Public Facilities Privacy &
Security Act, which is officially known as an act to provide for single-sex multiple occupancy bathroom
and changing facilities in schools and public agencies, and to create statewide consistency in regulation
of employment and public accommodations, prohibiting anti-discrimination rules being established
except on the basis contained in the state's anti-discrimination laws; and
WHEREAS, because the state's anti-discrimination laws do not include discrimination on the basis of
sexuality or gender status, the legislation has been widely described as anti-LGBT, due to the act’s
restriction of the definition of sex to the sex at birth, forcing all government-controlled facilities to
maintain single-sex bathrooms for matching biological sex only; and
WHEREAS, the process of adoption of this discriminatory law took less than 24 hours, from
presentation and vote by the House of Representatives, through a speedy vote by the Senate, ending in
official enactment upon the signature of Governor Pat McCrory that same day; and
WHEREAS, on March 28, 2016, the American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of North Carolina,
Lambda Legal, and Equality North Carolina, filed a federal lawsuit challenging House Bill 2, arguing
that North Carolina's new law “violates the most basic guarantees of equal treatment and the U.S.
Constitution"; and

Page 2 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, a number of companies have publicly announced their opposition to the law, including Red
Hat, Dow Chemical, Biogen, Wells Fargo, American Airlines, Lowe's, PayPal, Apple, Google, Facebook,
Twitter, IBM, Yelp, and Salesforce.com; and on March 29, 2016, an open letter signed by 80 corporate
CEOs against House Bill 2 was sent to Governor McCrory; and
WHEREAS, as of April 3, 2016, the states of Connecticut, Minnesota, New York, Vermont, and
Washington, the District of Columbia, as well as the cities of Boston, Chicago, New York City, Portland,
San Francisco, Seattle, and West Palm Beach have issued travel bans in response to House Bill 2, barring
government employees from non-essential travel to North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, the State of North Carolina has charted an ominous legal course that puts extremist politics
before the rights of all of its residents, and betrays our most deeply-held American values; and
WHEREAS, North Carolina’s House Bill 2 seriously undermines the U.S. Constitution’s 14th
Amendment which grants Equal Protection by providing that laws in the United States must apply
equally to everyone; and
WHEREAS, in the words of Justice Anthony Kennedy, when in 1996 the Supreme Court struck down
then Colorado’s anti-LGBT law in Romer v. Evans, this law “…seems inexplicable by anything but
animus toward the class it affects; it lacks a rational relationship to legitimate state interests”; and
WHEREAS, the most appropriate response, by the taxpayers of Cook County to the State of North
Carolina, is to assure that the State of North Carolina’s isolation is tangible rather than symbolic; and
WHEREAS, Cook County, the 2nd largest county in the nation with a budget of over 3.3 billion dollars
and a diverse population of more than five million, should be a leader in protecting the rights of people.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that the
members of this Board hereby find North Carolina’s House Bill 2 to be offensive to the values of the
taxpayers of Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that this Board hereby
boycotts the State of North Carolina and North Carolina-based businesses until North Carolina’s House
Bill 2 is repealed or invalidated; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that unless and until North Carolina’s House Bill 2 is repealed or
invalidated, the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Departments refrain from,
to the extent practicable, and in instances where there is no significant additional cost to the County nor
conflict with law, entering into any new, renewed, or amended contracts to purchase goods or services
from any company that is headquartered in North Carolina; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that County government
will not participate in any conventions or other business, which requires County resources to be spent in
the State of North Carolina; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that this Board hereby
urges the Illinois General Assembly and the Governor of the State of Illinois to adopt a similar resolution
calling for the boycott of the State of North Carolina and North Carolina-based businesses until North
Page 3 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Carolina’s House Bill 2 is repealed or invalidated; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby directs the
Secretary of the Board to send a copy of this Resolution to North Carolina’s Governor Pat McCrory.
This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon passage

16-2597
Sponsored by: LUIS ARROYO JR, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, RICHARD R. BOYKIN and LARRY
SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER PROCESS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION,
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR CONTRACTS. PROVISION OF PAID SICK LEAVE.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV
- Procurement Code, Division 2 - Procurement Procedures, Section 34-145 Responsible bidder process for
public works construction, maintenance and repair contracts, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 34-145. - Responsible bidder process for public works construction, maintenance and repair
contracts. Provision of paid sick leave.
For purposes of evaluating whether a Bidder for a Public Works Contract is Responsible, the CPO shall
determine that the Bidder:
(a) Is authorized to do business in Illinois and the County;
(b) Has, as applicable, a Federal Employer Identification Number or Social Security Number;
(c) Meets any applicable insurance requirements in the Bid Document;
(d) Has certified that it is in compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, and
State and Federal equal employment opportunity laws;
(e) Has certified that it participates in active apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for
each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded Contract;
(f) Contractually requires any subcontractor to participate in active apprenticeship and training
programs approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training for each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded
Contract; and
(g) Has agreed to provide Certified payrolls as specified in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.
Page 4 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(h) Provision of paid sick leave not less than what follows:
(1) For every 30 hours worked, employees shall earn one hour of paid sick leave, up to 7 days
per year.
(2) This requirement shall be limited to persons employed by the prime contractor; paid sick
leave need not be enforced for subcontractors.
(3) Executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall, to the extent permitted by law, ensure
that new contracts, contract-like instruments, and solicitations (collectively referred to as
"contracts"), include a clause, which the contractor and any subcontractors shall incorporate into
lower-tier subcontracts, specifying, as a condition of payment, that all employees, in the
performance of the contract or any subcontract thereunder, shall earn not less than 1 hour of paid
sick leave for every 30 hours worked.
a. A contractor may not set a limit on the total accrual of paid sick leave per year, or at any
point in time, at less than 56 hours.
b. Paid sick leave earned under this order may be used by an employee for an absence
resulting from:
(i) physical or mental illness, injury, or medical condition;
(ii) obtaining diagnosis, care, or preventive care from a health care provider;
(iii) caring for a child, a parent, a spouse, a domestic partner, or any other
individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee
is the equivalent of a family relationship who has any of the conditions or needs
for diagnosis, care, or preventive care described in paragraphs (i) or (ii) of this
subsection or is otherwise in need of care; or
(iv) domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the time absent from work is
for the purposes otherwise described in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this subsection,
to obtain additional counseling, to seek relocation, to seek assistance from a victim
services organization, to take related legal action, including preparation for or
participation in any related civil or criminal legal proceeding, or to assist an
individual related to the employee as described in paragraph (iii) of this subsection
in engaging in any of these activities.
c. Paid sick leave accrued under this order shall carry over from 1 year to the next and shall
be reinstated for employees rehired by a covered contractor within 12 months after a job
separation.
d. The use of paid sick leave cannot be made contingent on the requesting employee finding
a replacement to cover any work time to be missed.
e. The paid sick leave required by this order is in addition to a contractor's obligations under
Page 5 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

41 U.S.C. chapter 67 (Service Contract Act) and 40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter IV
(Davis-Bacon Act), and contractors may not receive credit toward their prevailing wage or
fringe benefit obligations under those Acts for any paid sick leave provided in satisfaction
of the requirements of this order.
f. A contractor's existing paid leave policy provided in addition to the fulfillment of Service
Contract Act or Davis-Bacon Act obligations, if applicable, and made available to all
covered employees will satisfy the requirements of this order if the amount of paid leave
is sufficient to meet the requirements of this section and if it may be used for the same
purposes and under the same conditions described herein.
g. Paid sick leave shall be provided upon the oral or written request of an employee that
includes the expected duration of the leave, and is made at least 7 calendar days in advance
where the need for the leave is foreseeable, and in other cases as soon as is practicable.
h. Certification.
(i) A contractor may only require certification issued by a health care provider for
paid sick leave used for the purposes listed in subsections b(i), b(ii), or b(iii) of this
section for employee absences of 3 or more consecutive workdays, to be provided
no later than 30 days from the first day of the leave.
(ii) If 3 or more consecutive days of paid sick leave is used for the purposes listed
in subsection b(iv) of this section, documentation may be required to be provided
from an appropriate individual or organization with the minimum necessary
information establishing a need for the employee to be absent from work. The
contractor shall not disclose any verification information and shall maintain
confidentiality about the domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, unless the
employee consents or when disclosure is required by law.
i. Nothing in this order shall require a covered contractor to make a financial payment to
an employee upon a separation from employment for accrued sick leave that has not been
used, but unused leave is subject to reinstatement as prescribed in subsection c. of this
section.
j. A covered contractor may not interfere with or in any other manner discriminate against
an employee for taking, or attempting to take, paid sick leave as provided for under this
order or in any manner asserting, or assisting any other employee in asserting, any right or
claim related to this order.
k. Nothing in this order shall excuse noncompliance with or supersede any applicable
Federal or State law, any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or a collective bargaining
agreement requiring greater paid sick leave or leave rights than those established under this
order.
l. The Office of the Cook County Procurement shall issue such regulations by May 30,
2016, as are deemed necessary and appropriate to carry out this order; defining terms used
Page 6 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

in this order; and requiring contractors to make, keep, and preserve such employee records
as the Procurement Office deems necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of the
provisions of this order or the regulations thereunder.
(4) Enforcement.
a. The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer shall have the authority for investigating
potential violations of and obtaining compliance with this order, including the prohibitions
on interference and discrimination in this section of this ordinance.
b. This order creates no rights under the Contract Disputes Act, and disputes regarding
whether a contractor has provided employees with paid sick leave prescribed by this order,
to the extent permitted by law, shall be disposed of only as provided by the Secretary in
regulations issued pursuant to this order.
c. Severability. If any provision of this order, or applying such provision to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of the
provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.
(5) General Provisions.
a. Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head
thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating
to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
b. This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the
availability of appropriations.
c. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its
departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
d. This order shall apply only to a new contract or contract-like instrument, as defined by
the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer in the regulations issued pursuant to section
(3)a. of this ordinance, if:
(i)
(A) it is a procurement contract for services or construction;
(B) it is a contract or contract-like instrument for services covered by the
Service Contract Act;

Page 7 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(C) it is a contract or contract-like instrument for concessions, including
any concessions contract excluded by Department of Labor regulations; or
(D) it is a contract or contract-like instrument entered into with the Cook
County in connection with Cook County property or lands and related to
offering services for Cook County employees, their dependents, or the
general public; and
(ii) the wages of employees under such contract or contract-like instrument are
governed by the Davis-Bacon Act, the Service Contract Act, or the Fair Labor
Standards Act, including employees who qualify for an exemption from its
minimum wage and overtime provisions.
e. For contracts or contract-like instruments covered by the Service Contract Act or the
Davis-Bacon Act, this order shall apply only to contracts or contract-like instruments at the
thresholds specified in those statutes. For procurement contracts in which employees'
wages are governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act, this order shall apply only to contracts
or contract-like instruments that exceed the micro-purchase threshold, as defined in 41
U.S.C. 1902(a), unless expressly made subject to this order pursuant to regulations or
actions taken under section 3 of this order.
f. This order shall not apply to grants; contracts and agreements with and grants to Indian
Tribes under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93638), as amended; or any contracts or contract-like instruments expressly excluded by the
regulations issued pursuant to section 3(a) of this order.
g. Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the requirements of this
order.
(6) Effective Date.
a. This order is effective immediately and shall apply to covered contracts where the
solicitation for such contract has been issued, or the contract has been awarded outside the
solicitation process, on or after:
(i) June 1, 2016, consistent with the effective date for the action taken by Cook
County Board pursuant to this section of this ordinance; or
(ii) June 1, 2016, for contracts where an agency action is taken pursuant to this
section of this ordinance, consistent with the effective date for such action.
b. This order shall not apply to contracts or contract-like instruments that are awarded, or
entered into pursuant to solicitations issued, on or before the effective date for the relevant
action taken pursuant to this section of this ordinance.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.

Page 8 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2566
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SPECIAL USE GASOLINE AND FUEL TAX
WHEREAS, the 1970 Illinois Constitution, Article VII, Section 6 designates Cook County as a Home Rule
Unit of Government; and,
WHEREAS, Cook County may exercise powers and perform functions as they relate to government,
including the authority to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare, and
including taxation; and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Home Rule Unit authority, this Board is empowered to make necessary
changes to the Laws and Ordinances of Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, the taxation power is best employed when the revenue from the imposed taxes are used to
improve health, welfare and economic outcomes for the men, women, and children that Cook County is
charged with serving; and,
WHEREAS, too many of the districts and neighborhoods in Cook County suffer from high levels of
poverty and unemployment, placing great strain on the budget, resources, and operations of Cook County
government; and,
WHEREAS, poverty and unemployment are demonstrably linked to increased crime, gang activity, drug
use, and alcoholism; and,
WHEREAS, widespread poverty contributes to widespread physical and mental health challenges, the cost
of which is borne by every resident of Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, unemployment levels in certain neighborhoods of Cook County exceed 20%, leading to a
host of societal consequences including violence, proliferation of the sale and use of illegal narcotics, and
housing and food insecurity; and,
WHEREAS, all of the above stated consequences of unemployment strain the court system, jail, health
and hospitals system, and law enforcement units operating under the auspices of Cook County government;
and,
WHEREAS, the proceeds of this tax will be exclusively dedicated to the implementation of four separate
and related Cook County initiatives set forth via ordinance and designed to strengthen and stabilize
neighborhoods in Cook County with high levels of poverty and unemployment, namely: (1) Cook County
Jobs Council; (2) Cook County Parenting to Prevent Violence Initiative; (3) Cook County Office for People
with Disabilities; (4) Cook County Community Policing Initiative;

Page 9 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
7 - Taxation, Article XII - Gasoline and Fuel Tax, Sections 74-472, 74-483, and 74-484 of the Cook County
Code are amended as follows:
ARTICLE XII. - GASOLINE AND DIESEL FUEL TAX
***
Sec. 74-472. - Tax imposed.
(a)Tax rate. A tax is hereby imposed on the retail sale in Cook County of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel
fuel, and gdiesel fuel at the rate of $0.06 per gallon or fraction thereof. The tax is to be paid by the purchaser,
and nothing in this Article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of distributors, suppliers
or retail dealers.
(b)The incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this Article is to be borne by the
consumer of the gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel and gdiesel fuel. Therefore, it shall be deemed a
violation of this Article for any distributor or retail dealer to fail to include the tax in the retail sale price of
gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, gdiesel fuel or to otherwise absorb the tax.
(c)Taxable transactions. Except as provisions are made in this Article for the collection of the tax
levied in this Article upon the sale of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel and gdiesel fuel in the possession
of distributors or retail dealers on the effective date of the ordinance from which this Article is derived, the
tax levied in this Article shall be collected by each distributor or supplier who sells gasoline, diesel fuel,
biodiesel fuel, or gdiesel fuel to:
(1) A retail dealer doing business in the County;
(2) A consumer who purchases gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or gdiesel fuel directly from a Gas
Distributor for delivery in the County; or
(3) Another Gas Distributor doing business in the County that is not holding a valid registration
certificate.
[(d) Reserved.] (d) Special Use Tax. A tax in addition to the tax imposed by Sec. 74-472(a) is hereby
imposed on the retail sale of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, and gdiesel fuel at the rate of $0.04
per gallon or fraction thereof. The additional revenue derived from this tax shall be used exclusively
pursuant to Sec. 74-483 of this title and the continued existence of this tax shall be governed by Sec.
74-484 of this title. Therefore it shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any distributor, or retail
dealer to fail to include the tax in the retail sale price of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, gdiesel
fuel, or to otherwise absorb the tax.
(e)Any Gas Distributor or supplier of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or gdiesel fuel shall pay the
tax levied by this Article to the Department. Any person receiving payment of this tax shall be a trustee for
the County.

Page 10 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(f)If the retail dealer shall receive gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or gdiesel fuel upon which no
tax has been collected by the distributor or supplier, and then the retail dealer shall collect such tax and
remit it directly to the Department within 30 days of the receipt of such gasoline or diesel fuel.
(g)Tax in addition to other taxes. The tax imposed by this Article is in addition to all other taxes
imposed by the Government of the United States, the State, or by any unit of local government.
***
Sec. 74-483 - Proceeds from the Special Use Tax
(a)The proceeds from the tax imposed in Sec. 74-472(d) shall be dedicated to the implementation of
four separate and related Cook County initiatives set forth via ordinance and designed to strengthen and
stabilize neighborhoods in Cook County with high levels of poverty and unemployment, namely: (1) Cook
County Jobs Council; (2) Cook County Parenting to Prevent Violence Initiative; (3) Cook County Office
for People with Disabilities; (4) Cook County Community Policing Initiative;
Sec. 74-484 -Expiration of the Special Use Tax
The tax imposed in Sec. 74-472(d) shall expire at such time when the average price of gasoline reaches
$5.00 per gallon less the rate of the Special Use Tax and that average price is sustained for a period of thirty
(30) consecutive days. The tax rate imposed by Sec. 74-472(a) will remain effective upon the expiration of
the Special Use Tax. Once the tax imposed in Sec. 74-472(d) expires, it shall only be renewed by an
amendment to this title by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Amendments to Secs. 74-472(d), 74-483, and 74-484 will become effective on June 1, 2016 or upon passage
and publication, whichever date is later.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on June 1, 2016 or upon passage and publication,
whichever date is later.

16-2567
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY JOBS COUNCIL
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2- ADMINISTRATION,
ARTICLE VI- BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES, DIVISION 5- COOK COUNTY JOBS
COUNCIL, is hereby enacted as Follows:
ARTICLE VI. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
DIVISION 5. - COOK COUNTY JOBS COUNCIL

Page 11 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Sec. 2-528.-Cook County Jobs Council
(a)There is hereby created a Cook County Jobs Council which shall consist of the following nine (9)
individuals: the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; the Chair of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners’ Committee on Finance; the Chair of the Cook County Board of Commissioners’
Committee on Workforce, Housing and Community Development; the Chair of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners’ Committee on Business and Economic Development; the Chair of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners’ Committee on Human Relations; the Chair of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners’ Committee on Roads and Bridges; the Director of Cook County’s Bureau of Economic
Development; the Director of Cook County’s Highway Department; the Director of Cook County’s Office
of Contract Compliance.
(b)The Members of the Cook County Jobs Council shall, at their first meeting, designate among them
two (2) co-chairs for the Council. The co-chairs shall have an established, professional background from
either the private or not-for-profit sector. No public official may serve in the role of co-chair. It shall be the
role and responsibility of the co-chairs to facilitate the strategic efforts of the Council to reduce
unemployment in the areas designated by the Council.
(c)It shall be the duty of the Cook County Jobs Council to meet not less than once per month from the
effective date of this ordinance in order to accomplish the following objectives on a regular and ongoing
basis:
(1) Identify the geographic boundaries of and designate the areas within Cook County where
unemployment among those between the ages of 16-24 is equal to or greater than 10%;
(2) For each of the above designated areas, craft a plan to expand employment opportunity for that
area’s residents, utilizing the revenue generated by the Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax to
finance partnerships with private sector employers, and with an emphasis on incentivizing the
hiring of unskilled labor in order to provide work opportunities for individuals without high school
and / or college diplomas or trade certifications;
(3) Where appropriate, identify highway and infrastructure projects in Cook County, and develop plans
to hire unskilled labor and clerical staff from the high-unemployment areas to work on such
projects. The scope of such projects should include but not be limited to:
a. Building and maintenance of public access spaces including parks and community
gardens;
b. Roadway maintenance;

c. Sanitation projects;
d. The Cook County Jobs Council, via the Bureau of Economic Development and the
Cook County Office of Contract Compliance shall have oversight over the hiring
practices of business and contractors who are engaged by Cook County to perform

Page 12 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

public works projects to ensure that eligible individuals from the high-unemployment
areas are provided an opportunity for employment.

e. The Cook County Jobs Council may develop jobs training and employee education
programs designed to assist individuals from high-unemployment areas who do not
qualify for unskilled labor and clerical work, with the goal of connecting those
individuals with meaningful work opportunities in such other fields as food service;
hospitality; retail employment; and technical or mechanical work.
f.

The number and compensation of the clerical staff and other assistance to be engaged
by the Cook County Jobs Council and the amount of expenses to be incurred by the
Council shall be annually fixed by the County Board from the proceeds of the Special
Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax. Where possible, clerical staff should be hired from the
communities contemplated by Sec. 2-528(b)(1).

g. The County Jobs Council shall, at the end of each quarter of the fiscal year, make a
report on its activities and progress and present that report to the Cook County Board
of Commissioners.
h. Effective Date: The effective date of this ordinance shall be June 1, 2016 or upon
passage and publication, whichever date is later.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2016 or upon passage and publication, whichever
date is later.

16-2569
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PARENTING TO PREVENT VIOLENCE PROGRAM
WHEREAS, violence has impacted and continues to impact the lives of too many citizens of Cook County;
and,
WHEREAS, violence has proven tremendously costly to Cook County government in the administration
of its hospitals, courts and jails; and,
WHEREAS, the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners affirm their moral obligation to
reduce the escalating trend of neighborhood violence in Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners wish to send a strong public
message that violence is both unacceptable and preventable; and,

Page 13 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners wish to bolster this strong public
message of zero tolerance for violence by strategically investing County resources in programs that attack
the root cause of violence in our communities; and,
WHEREAS, the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners have already shown themselves
to be forward-thinking and pro-active in the establishment of the Justice Advisory Council and its Violence
Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Programs; and,
WHEREAS, research clearly demonstrates that the more children are exposed to violence in their homes,
the greater the risk that those children will demonstrate aggressive and violent behaviors in later in life;
and,
WHEREAS, according to the World Health Organization, parent and family based interventions are among
the most promising strategies for producing long-term reduction in youth violence;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
2-Administration, Article VI-Boards, Commissions and Committees, Division 4-Cook County Violence
Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Advisory Committee, Section 2-527 of the Cook County Code is
amended as follows:
Sec. 2-527. - Cook County Violence Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Programs.
***
(c) A “Parenting to Prevent Violence” program shall be administered by the Advisory Committee.
Said program shall be implemented via the administration of grants to qualified 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4)
organizations, following a grant application process, request for proposal or request for qualification issued
by the Justice Advisory Council. To be a qualified 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organization to receive grant
funds pursuant to this initiative, said organization must clearly demonstrate expertise and experience in the
field of parenting education via information including, but not limited to certification, education level of
providers, community profile, and written scholarly or instructional materials. Grants issued to qualified
501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organizations shall be selected by the Advisory Committee subject to the approval
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The Justice Advisory Council, via its Director, shall issue
the grant application process for the “Parenting to Prevent Violence” Program and necessary related
requests for proposal or requests for qualification and shall be authorized to execute said grant agreements
as approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, subject to the process set forth in the Cook
County Procurement Code, and further subject to the following conditions:
(1) Grants administered pursuant to the Parenting to Prevent Violence program shall be annually fixed
by the County Board from the proceeds of the Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax.
(2) The total value of grants administered during the first full Fiscal Year of the Parenting to Prevent
Violence Program shall be not less than $2,000,000 dollars.
(d) Effective Date: The effective date of this ordinance amendment shall be June 1, 2016 or upon passage
and publication, whichever date is later.

Page 14 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on June 1, 2016 or upon passage and publication,
whichever date is later.

16-2570
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
OFFICE FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38, Article VII, Sec. 38165 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE VII. OFFICE FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
Sec. 38-165. Office for People with Disabilities
(a) Title. This division shall be known and may be cited as the “Office for People with Disabilities
Ordinance” of Cook County, Illinois.
(b) Purpose and Policy. Cook County is a place where your future is not limited by your race,
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability, age, income, where you were born or where you live. Equity
exists when everyone has access to opportunities necessary to satisfy essential needs, advance their wellbeing, and achieve their full potential. Equity is both the means to healthy communities and an end that
benefits us all.
People who have disabilities are entitled to full inclusion as equal citizens in society and the
opportunity to achieve their full economic, social, cultural, civic, and political potential. People who have
disabilities are entitled to the freedom to experience environments without discriminatory barriers that
prevent people who have disabilities from participating in the decisions that affect them.
It is the policy of Cook County to resist and remove such barriers, to promote the full integration
and participation of people with disabilities into all areas of economic, political, and community life, and
to make it possible for them to realize their full potential and contribute to the common good.
(c) Creation. There is hereby created and established the Office for People with Disabilities. The
Office for People with Disabilities will coordinate all activities, plans, and programs including, but not
limited to providing assistance to the problems, concerns, and issues of people with disabilities.
(d) Duties.The Office for People with Disabilities shall:
(1) Provide information to the Board of Commissioners concerning issues of importance to
people with disabilities;
(2) Assist in addressing fairly the concerns of people with disabilities, individually and as a
protected class, under Cook County ordinances and other applicable laws;
Page 15 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(3) Carry on research or otherwise obtain factual data, issue publications, and make
recommendations that implement the policy of the Office;
(4) Recommend policies and practices to all departments and offices of the County in matters
affecting concerns of people with disabilities;
(5) Encourage understanding between the community of people with disabilities and the larger
Cook County Community through long-range projects;
(6) Cooperate with the Board of Commissioners in formulating and executing comprehensive
programs that enhance the opportunities for people with disabilities;
(7) Recommend such legislative action as he or she may deem appropriate to implement the
policy of the Office for People with Disabilities;
(8) Enlist and encourage the cooperation of all public and voluntary agencies, racial, religious,
and ethnic groups, community organizations, fraternal and benevolent societies, veteran
organizations, professional and technical organizations, and other groups in Cook County
working to implement the policy of the Office;
(9) Report on a semi-annual basis to the Board of Commissioners. Such reports shall include
an annual or semi-annual work plan, a briefing on the Office's public involvement process for
soliciting community and citizen input in framing their annual work plans, and updates on the
work plans.
(e) Composition. The Office for People with Disabilities shall be staffed with an affairs officer, a
permanent position, who shall head the office, and two other personnel. Employees of the department shall
receive such compensation as may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners, from the proceeds of the
Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax.
(f) Gifts. The Office may accept offers of gifts or grants, including equipment, supplies, materials
or funds, from the United States, the State of Illinois, their agencies or officers, or from any person, firm,
or corporation. The Office may expend such receipts on projects that implement the policy of the Office.
(g) Funds. The Office for People with Disabilities shall be annually appropriated a total amount of
$1,147,191 for its administrative and operational requirements on the basis of the approved work and
financial plans. The breakdown of the appropriated amount is $1,042,707 for personnel services, $82,542
for contractual services, $12,403 for travel, and $9,539 for commodities. With the exception of the funds
described in paragraph (f) of this ordinance, funds appropriated for the Office for People with disabilities
shall be derived from the proceeds of the Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2016 or upon passage and publication, whichever
date is later.

Page 16 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2571
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
APPROPRIATING FUNDS DERIVED FROM THE SPECIAL USE GASOLINE AND FUEL
TAX FOR THE PURPOSE OF ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY COMMUNITY POLICING
INITIATIVE TO BE OVERSEEN BY THE SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, incidents of gun violence and homicide are rapidly escalating in Chicago and Cook County
in 2016; and,
WHEREAS, since January of 2016, over 600 people have been shot in the City of Chicago, with over
120 people killed; and,
WHEREAS, in 2015, 2,987 people were shot in the City of Chicago, with 488 people killed; and,
WHEREAS, if current trends continue, 2016 will see more people shot and killed in Chicago were shot
and killed in 2015; and,
WHEREAS, the escalation of gun violence and gang warfare in certain Chicago neighborhoods has
created an atmosphere of danger and posed constant and intolerable risk to the life, liberty and property
of citizens of Cook County; and,
WHEREAS the President of the County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners wish to
affirm the moral obligation of Cook County Government to provide for the health, welfare and safety of
the residents of Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, the health, welfare, and safety of certain residents of Cook County are consistently and
fundamentally threatened by the constant threat of neighborhood violence; and,
WHEREAS it is both possible and necessary to pinpoint and describe the geographic boundaries of the
neighborhoods and the communities in Cook County where the level of gun violence is highest; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office is responsible for a police force with extraordinary
capability and commitment to the public good; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Sheriff has participated in public safety operations designed to support
the Chicago Police Department by providing reinforcements and additional manpower with respect to the
policing of high crime areas; and,
WHEREAS, in January of 2016 Sheriff Tom Dart and then-Interim Chicago Police Superintendent John
Escalante partnered in a community initiative designed to more effectively and cooperatively combat
gang violence; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Sheriff has unquestionably shown itself to be an able and productive
partner to the Chicago Police Department in bolstering police efforts to achieve public safety; and,
Page 17 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, the spike in gun violence thus far in 2016 makes the increased participation of the Cook
County Sheriff in such community policing efforts to be necessary and, in fact, indispensable;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, that a “Cook County Community Policing Initiative” to be overseen by
the Cook County Sheriff is hereby established; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President of the County Board and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County Community Policing Initiative shall be funded via proceeds derived
from proceeds of the Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President of the County Board and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that the Cook County Community Policing Initiative shall, in its initial stages consist of
the hiring of no less than 15 additional Sheriff’s Police Officers who shall be assigned the primary task
of Community Policing in Cook County neighborhoods with high levels of violence; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President of the County Board and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that funds appropriated from the proceeds of the Special Use Gasoline and Fuel Tax for
the Cook County Community Policing Initiative shall total not less than $2 million dollars; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President of the County Board and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that the Cook County Community Policing Initiative shall commence no later than June
1, 2016 or upon passage and publication of this resolution, whichever date is later.

16-2614
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LOCAL BUSINESS PREFERENCE
WHEREAS, the 1970 Illinois Constitution, Article VII, Section 6 designates Cook County as a Home
Rule Unit of Government; and
WHEREAS, Cook County may exercise powers and perform functions as they relate to government,
including the authority to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; and
including the power to tax; and
WHEREAS, when the revenue generated by Cook County taxes are used in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code, the funds are best used when they are put back into the Cook County
economy; and
WHEREAS, Cook County businesses are a driving force for employment and economic development in
the County; and
WHEREAS, spending public dollars with Cook County businesses serves the sound policy of increasing
employment, fostering economic development and strengthening the economy of the County; and
Page 18 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, expanding the preference given to Cook County businesses helps to further these policy
goals; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners is empowered to make necessary changes to the
Procurement Code.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
34 - Finance, Article IV - Procurement Code, Division 6 - Bid Incentives and Preferences, Section
34-230 of the Cook County Code be amended as follows:
Sec. 34-230. - Local business preference; all contracts.
The CPO shall recommend award of the Procurement to the lowest Responsible and Responsive Bidder
which is a Local Business, so long as the Bid of such Bidder does not exceed the Bid of the lowest
Responsive and Responsible Bidder by more than five percent ten percent; or if the lowest Responsive
and Responsible Bidder receives Earned Credit under Secs. 34-234, 34-236. 34-237, or 34-239 the Bid of
such Bidder does not exceed the Credited Bid by more than seven and one-half percent.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

16-2617
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROHIBITION ON RETALIATORY MOTIONS FOR USE AND OCCUPANCY
WHEREAS, the 1970 Illinois Constitution, Article VII, Section 6 designates Cook County as a Home
Rule Unit of Government; and
WHEREAS, Cook County may exercise powers and perform functions as they relate to government,
including the authority to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; and
including the power to tax; and
WHEREAS, Cook County may exercise and perform concurrently with the State any power or function
of a home rule unit to the extent that the General Assembly by law does not specifically limit the
concurrent exercise or specifically declare the State’s exercise to be exclusive; and
WHEREAS, the General Assembly has not specifically limited the power of Cook County to enact laws
regarding Forcible Entry and Detainer; and
WHEREAS, the General Assembly has not specifically declared that the State’s exercise over Forcible
Entry and Detainer laws to be exclusive to the State; and
WHEREAS, allowing landlords who initiate Forcible Entry and Detainer Actions in the Circuit Court of
Cook County to file Motions for Use and Occupancy during the pendency of trial is punitive to
defendants seeking to protect their rights; and
Page 19 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, a disproportionate number of defendants in Forcible Entry and Detainer actions live in
poverty; and
WHEREAS, a Motion for Use and Occupancy during pendency of a jury trial may discourage
defendants from protecting their rights and be prohibitive of finding legal counsel; and
WHEREAS, penalizing individuals for exercising their right to a jury trial is an important access to
justice issue;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
42 - Human Relations, Article II - Human Rights, Section 42-38-Housing, subsection (b) of the Cook
County Code be amended as follows:
Sec. 42-38. - Housing.
(b) Prohibitions.
***
(8) Retaliatory Motion for Use and Occupancy. No person, having initiated an Action for Forcible
Entry and Detainer pursuant to 735 ILCS Article IX, shall be permitted to file a Motion for Use and
Occupancy against a party who has made a jury demand for the proceeding during the pendency of the jury
trial without a bona fide showing of substantial financial hardship as a result of the extended time without
the ability to collect rent. No operator of a housing facility who receives government subsidies for all, or a
portion of, rent on the unit that is the subject of the Forcible Detainer and Entry action shall be permitted
to make such a motion.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

16-2598
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE PROPERTY TAX CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR ASSESSMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II Real Property Taxation, Division 2 - Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-63 (8)(b) of the
Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
***
(8) Class C. Real estate which is to be used for industrial or commercial purposes, including
abandoned property, as defined in Section 74-62, including the land upon which such property is
situated; or vacant land; where such real estate because of contamination has undergone
environmental testing and remediation and has received a "No Further Remediation Letter" from
the site remediation program.

Page 20 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

a.

To be eligible for a Class C classification an applicant must have received a "No Further
Remediation Letter" confirming achievement of the remediation objectives based on the
industrial or commercial use.

b.

The owner of the property is rendered ineligible for the Class C classification by having
previously owned or operated the site, directly or indirectly, or having been a partner or being
associated through a family or business relationship with anyone who has owned or operated
the site, which ownership or operation caused the contamination which was remediated
pursuant to a site remediation, except for an employee who worked for an owner, as defined
herein, that operated the site. A present owner or employer who can successfully demonstrate
that the owner or employer was not responsible for the contamination may be eligible for
Class C classification.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

16-2616
REPORT
Department: Veterans Assistance Commission of Cook County
Request: Receive and file
Report Title: FY 2016 1st Quarter Report
Report Period: 12/1/2015 - 2/29/2016
Summary: Per Board Resolution, this quarterly report provides daily activity at the Veterans Assistance
Commission for the captioned time period.
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR

16-2323
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Job Order Contracting (JOC) Internal Audit Report
Report Period: March 2016
Page 21 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Summary: The purpose of the audit was to determine if the County’s JOC program is operating in
accordance with the established Policies and Procedures and Contract guidelines for the Administration
of the JOC program.

16-2342
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: FY’16 1st Quarter Open Findings Status Report
Report Period: March 2016
Summary: Report on the status of open audit findings and recommendations.

16-2422
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Sole Source and Emergency Procurements Internal Audit Report
Report Period: March 2016
Summary: The purpose of the audit was to verify that internal controls are in place and to ensure
compliance with Sole Source and Emergency procurement policies, procedures and ordinance.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

16-2453
REPORT
Department: Comptroller
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 03/03/2016 - 03/23/2016
Page 22 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125(k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Official, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product of service provided.
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

16-1366
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article IX.
Alcoholic Beverage Tax, Sections 74-354, 74-356, 74-360 and 74-362of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-354. - Wholesaler and retailer registration
(a) Any wholesaler who engages in the business of selling alcoholic beverages in the County must
register with the Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Department prior to engaging
in the business of supplying or selling alcoholic beverages for resale, use or consumption in the County.
(b) Wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers shall file each month with the Department a report of sales
of alcoholic beverages in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department. Such report of sales
must be mailed in sufficient time to be postmarked on or before the 15 20th day from the last day of the
month for which the return is due. Each report of sales of alcoholic beverages shall be accompanied by a
remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The remittance shall be made
payable to the County Collector. Registered wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers must file a monthly return
even if no tax is due.
(c) Wholesale and retail alcoholic beverage dealers shall file an annual informational return by March
20th for the previous calendar year; the first annual informational return will be due March 20, 2018.
Wholesalers must list the entities they sold alcoholic beverages to along with the types and amounts of
alcoholic beverages sold. Retailers must list the entities they purchased alcoholic beverages from along

Page 23 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

with the types and amounts of alcoholic beverages purchased. Such return must be filed on a form
prescribed and furnished by the Department.
(dc) A retail alcoholic beverages dealer who receives alcoholic beverages upon which no tax has been
collected by the distributor or supplier shall remit the tax directly to the Department on or before the 20th
day of the month following the month in which the alcoholic beverages were received within 30 days of
the receipt of such alcoholic beverages.
(ed) The tax required in this Article to be collected by any wholesale alcoholic beverages dealer
pursuant to this Article shall constitute a debt owed by the wholesale alcoholic beverages dealer to the
County.
(fe) Retailers shall register and provide information as provided by rules and regulations promulgated
by the Department of Revenue.
***
Sec. 74-356. - Documents; books; records.
(a) It shall be the duty of every wholesale and retail alcoholic beverage dealer to keep and maintain
accurate documents, books and records used to process taxable and nontaxable sales and purchase
transactions from start to completion, and make them available for inspection, audit, or copying during
regular business hours.
(b) Documents, books and records shall be kept, by wholesale and retail alcoholic beverages dealers,
for the taxable time period as listed in the statute of limitations section of the Uniform Penalties, Interest
and Procedures Ordinance, as provided in Cook Code of Ordinances, Article III Sec. 34-60 et seq., Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance.
***
Sec. 74-360. - Additional to other taxes Reserved.
The tax imposed by this Article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of the
United States, the State, or by any unit of local government.
***
Sec. 74-362. - Rulemaking.
(a) The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations to carry out the duties
imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to,
reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices in the wholesale and retail liquor industry, for
collection and remittance of the tax levied in this Article upon the consumer of alcoholic beverages.
(b) The Department may appoint wholesale dealers of alcoholic beverages and any other person within
or without the County as agents for the tax herein levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a
commission not exceeding one-half of one percent of the tax due to the County to such agent for services
rendered in connection with the tax levied in this Article, provided the tax is remitted, in full, by the due
date.
Page 24 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(c) If any business selling liquor at the retail level shall receive liquor upon which no tax has been
collected by the distributor or supplier, then the retail operator shall collect such tax and remit it directly to
the Department within 30 days of the receipt of such liquor
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

16-1369
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
GAMBLING MACHINE TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article
XVIII. Gambling Machine Tax, Sections 74-628, 74-634, 74-635 and 74-638of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-628. - Tax imposed.
A tax is imposed upon each Gambling Machine that is displayed by a person for play or operation by
the public in Cook County, as follows:
(a) Tax Rate on Gambling Device. For each 12-month period as established by the director, an annual

tax in the amount of $1,000.00 is imposed upon each Gambling Device; said tax shall be paid by the owner
and shall be applicable for Gambling Devices that are displayed by a person for play or operation by the
public in Cook County. The tax imposed may be made pro-ratable by the director under such policies,
procedures, rules, and forms as may be promulgated by said director and shall be paid by the owner of the
machine.
(b) Tax Rate on Video Gaming Terminal. For each 12-month period as established by the director, an
annual tax in the amount of $200.00 is imposed upon each Video Gaming Terminal; said tax shall be paid
by the owner and shall be applicable for Video Gaming Terminals that are displayed by a person for play
or operation by the public in Cook County. The tax imposed may be made pro-ratable by the director under
such policies, procedures, rules, and forms as may be promulgated by said director and shall be paid by the
owner of the video gaming terminal.
(c) Additional Taxes. The taxes imposed in this Article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the
County, the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the foregoing.
***
Sec. 74-634. - Violations, penalties.
(a) Any owner subject to this tax who remits the tax after the start of the 12-month period established
by the director shall pay a late fee equal to the amount of the tax due.

Page 25 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(b) It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to display a Gambling Machine for play or operation
by the public within the County unless (1) the owner of the Gambling Machine and person displaying the
Gambling Machine for play or operation by the public within the County has registered with the department;
(2) the tax has been paid on said Gambling Machine and is evidenced by the tax emblem conspicuously
affixed to the Gambling Machine; and (3) the Gambling Machine is plainly labeled with the name, address
and telephone number of the owner of the Gambling Machine. If at any time a Gambling Machine does not
bear the emblem required by this Article, the person displaying the Gambling Machine, to be played or
operated by the public at any place owned or leased by such person and the owner shall be jointly and
severally liable for a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense relative to the Gambling Machine, and $2,000.00
for any subsequent offense relative to any Gambling Machine. Every day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(b c) It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to take, destroy, remove, alter, deface, mutilate,
obliterate, or make illegible the tax emblem provided for in this Section during the year for which it was
issued, or make available to the public for play or operation in the county a Gambling Machine if the tax
emblem or label has been taken, destroyed, removed, altered, defaced, mutilated, obliterated, or has become
illegible. Any person or owner who, without authority, takes, destroys, removes, alters, defaces, mutilates,
obliterates, or makes illegible the emblem provided for in this Article, shall be fined $1,000.00 for each
offense. Every such unauthorized taking, destruction, removal, obliteration, or making illegible of said
emblem shall constitute a separate offense.
(d) Any owner, or person, or member determined to have violated this Article, as amended, shall be
subject to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent
offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person
shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this Article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to
the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no way bar the right of the County to
institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding.
Sec. 74-635. - Books and records.
Every person who is subject to this tax shall keep and maintain accurate and complete documents,
books, and records of each transaction or activity subject to this ordinance, from start to complete, including
all original source documents. All such books and records shall be kept for a period equal to the statute of
limitations as identified as provided in Article III, Section 34-60 of the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and
Procedures Ordinance, Section 34-60, et seq., and shall, at all reasonable times during normal business
hours, be open to inspection, audit, or copying by the department and its agents.
***
Sec. 74-638. - Application of uniform penalties, interest, and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article, of or whenever this Article is silent,
the provisions of the uniform penalties, interest, and procedures ordinance, Article III, Chapter 34, of the
Cook County Code of Ordinances, shall apply to and supplement this Article.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Page 26 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-1372
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
GASOLINE AND DIESEL FUEL TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article
XII. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Tax, Sections 74-477, 74-479 and 74-482 is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-477. - Books and records.
Every gas distributor and retailer dealer as defined in this Article, shall keep accurate books and records
of its beginning inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability,
exemption or deduction or defense to liability. Books and records and other papers relating to transactions
which occurred during any period with respect to which the Department is authorized to issue notices of
tax liability as provided in Chapter 34, Article III, Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance
shall be preserved until the expiration of such period unless the Department, in writing, authorizes their
destruction or disposal prior to such expiration. All those books and records shall be kept in the English
language and, at all times during business hours, shall be subject to and available for inspection or copying
by the Department.
***
Sec. 74-479. - Municipality and township tax rebate.
Any municipality or township with its primary administrative office located in the County shall be
entitled to a tax rebate. Such rebate shall be paid on an annual basis. Claims for such reimbursement must
be made within six months from the end of each calendar year, upon forms prescribed by the Department,
and shall only address purchases made in the previous calendar year. The Department shall determine the
proof required to substantiate the rebate by rule.
***
Sec. 74-482. - Rulemaking.
(a) The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be
limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices of distributors, suppliers and retail
dealers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied upon the purchaser of gasoline or diesel fuel.
(b)The Department may appoint distributors or suppliers and any other person within or without the
County as agents for the tax levied in this Article. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a
commission not exceeding one-half of one percent of the tax due to the County to such agent for services
rendered in connection with the tax levied in this Article, provided the tax is remitted, in full, by the due
date.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Page 27 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-1373
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SALES OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAILERS TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article VI.
Sales of New Motor Vehicles and Trailers Tax, Sections 74-628, 74-634, 74-635 and 74-638 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-234. - New motor vehicle dealer registration.
New motor vehicle dealers, as described in this Article, shall register with the Department, in
accordance with procedures prescribed by the Department, prior to commencing business. Application for
registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department. It shall be unlawful to conduct business
in Cook County as a new motor vehicle dealer prior to obtaining a Cook County Department of Revenue
Sales of New Motor Vehicle certificate of tax registration.
Sec. 74-235. - Tax remittance and returns.
(a) Every new motor vehicle dealer shall file, on forms prescribed by the Department, a remittance return
and remit all taxes due on or before the 20th day of the month following the month for which the tax
is due. Every new motor vehicle dealer shall file a monthly return even when no tax is due.
(b) Final monthly return; remittance. Any new motor vehicle who ceases to engage in the business of
making retail sales of new motor vehicles shall file a final return under this Article with the Department
not later than one calendar month after making the last sale at retail. All taxes due to be paid to the
County shall be remitted to the County at the time the final return is filed with the Department.
(c) New motor vehicle dealer Annual Return. New motor vehicle dealers shall file an annual information
return, on forms prescribed by the Department, on the last day of the month following the year for
which the return is due. Such annual return shall include a statement of beginning inventory, purchases,
sales, ending inventory, and receipts as shown on the retailer's State income tax return. The tax
collector's annual return to the Department shall also disclose such additional reasonable information
as the Department shall require to enable the Department to determine the accuracy of any periodic
return filed by such tax collector as provided by this Section.
Sec. 74-236. - Books and records to be kept.
It shall be the duty of all new motor vehicle dealers to keep and maintain all books, papers and records
related to all transactions taxable or non-taxable under this Article and to make such records available to
the Director on request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours. Books, papers
and records which relate to a return filed or required to be filed with the Department shall be kept for a the
taxable time period as provided for listed in the statute of limitations section of the Cook County Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Article III, Sec. 34-60 et seq.
Page 28 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

16-1374
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article
XIII. Parking Lot and Garage Operations Tax, Sections 74-512 and 74-514) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-512. - Tax imposed.
(a) A tax is imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon any parking lot
or garage in the County. The tax shall be collected by operators and valet parking operators, as described
in this Article, from any person who seeks the privilege of occupying space in or upon any parking lot or
garage.
(b) Valet Parking Operators are required to collect and remit the tax imposed by this Article, for each
motor vehicle parked at a Parking Lot or Garage, as described in this Article; however, if the valet parking
operator has a written agreement with a parking lot or garage operator that designates an amount of
consideration paid by the valet parking operator which the parking lot or garage operator remits to the
Department as parking lot and garage operations tax, the valet parking operator may take a credit for the
amount remitted by the parking lot or garage operator. The valet parking business shall have the burden of
proving its entitlement to this credit with books, records and other documentary evidence. the valet parking
operator is not required to collect or remit the tax if the Valet Parking Operator pays the tax to the Operator,
who shall remit the tax to the Department.
(c) Tax rates through August 31, 2013.
(1) The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon
parking lots or garages, except for parking lots and garages in subsection (2), are in effect through
August 31, 2013.
Parking Charge or Fee Time Period
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly

Imposed by Operator
$2.00 or less
$2.01 to $4.99
$5.00 to $11.99
$12.00 or more
$10.00 or less
$10.01 to $24.99
$25.00 to $59.99
$60.00 or more
$40.00 or less
Page 29 of 94

Tax Amount
$0.00
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.00
2.50
3.75
5.00
0.00

 Board of Commissioners
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly

BOARD AGENDA
$40.01 to $99.99
$100.00 to $239.99
$240.00 or more

April 13, 2016
10.00
15.00
20.00

(2) The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon
parking lots or garages owned by municipalities with populations of 250,000 inhabitants or less
are in effect through August 31, 2013.
Parking Charge or Fee Time Period
Imposed by Operator Tax Amount
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
24 hours or less
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly
Monthly

$3.00 or less
$3.01 or $4.99
$5.00 to $11.99
$12.00 or more
$15.00 or less
$15.01 to $24.99
$25.00 to $59.99
$60.00 or more
$60.00 or less
$60.01 to $99.99
$100.00 to $239.99
$240.00 or more

$0.00
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.00
2.50
3.75
5.00
0.00
10.00
15.00
20.00

(d) Tax rates effective September 1, 2013.
(1) A tax upon the use or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or garages,
except for parking lots and garages in subsection (2), is hereby imposed at the rate of six percent
of the charge or fee paid for parking for a 24-hour period or less and nine percent of the charge or
fee paid for parking for a weekly or monthly period. This tax shall not apply if the charge or fee
paid for parking in such parking lots or garages does not exceed $2.00 for a 24-hour period or
less, $10.00 for a weekly period or $40.00 for a monthly period.
(2) A tax upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or garages
owned by municipalities with populations of 250,000 inhabitants or less is hereby imposed at the
rate of six percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a 24-hour period or less and nine
percent of the charge or fee paid for parking for a weekly or monthly period. This tax shall not
apply if the charge or fee paid for parking in such parking lots or garages does not exceed $3.00
for a 24-hour period or less, $15.00 for a weekly period or $60.00 for a monthly period.
(e) The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on the person who seeks the
privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking lot or garage.
(f) The tax imposed by this Section shall not apply to:

Page 30 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(1) Residential off-street parking of house or apartment or condominium occupants, wherein an
arrangement for parking is provided in the house or apartment lease in a written agreement
between the landlord and tenant;
(2) Residential parking provided for condominium occupants pursuant to a written agreement
between the condominium association and the owner, occupant or guest of a unit owner, whether
the parking charge is payable to the landlord, condominium association, or to the operator of the
parking lot or garage; or
(3) To hospital and medical center employees parking at a parking lot or garage where the hospital or
medical center is the employer and, as described in this Article, operator.
(g) The amount of the tax due under this Article shall be computed exclusive of any Federal, State or
municipal taxes imposed.
***
Sec. 74-514. - Maintenance of records.
(a) It shall be the duty of every operator and valet parking operator to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Director of Revenue shall, at all times, have full access. These books and
records shall include all cash register or other receipts required by this Article, all tickets and voided tags,
and a daily sheet for each location showing:
(1) The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage, segregated on a daily, weekly,
monthly, or other basis, and also segregated by the amount of the charge or fee imposed for
parking; and
(2) The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking transactions.
(3) Any other original source documents and books of entry denoting the transactions that gave rise,
or may have given rise, to any tax liability, exemption or deduction or defense to liability.
(b) All books and records required by this Section shall be retained for the taxable time period as listed
in the statute of limitations section of the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Article III,
Sec. 34-60 et seq. not less than four years after the end of the calendar year in which they are created;
provided, however, that an operator on an annual basis may request approval from the Director of Revenue
to discard tickets or tags that were issued more than one year earlier, and the Director shall grant approval
if the director determines that the operator's books and records satisfy the requirements of this Article.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 31 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-1375
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
UNIFORM PENALTIES, INTEREST AND PROCEDURES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance, Article III.
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures, Sections 34-62 and 34-77 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
Sec. 34-62. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department or Department of Revenue means the Cook County Department of Revenue.
Director or Director of Revenue means the Director of Revenue of the County.
Franchise fee means any cable television franchise fee payable to the County pursuant to Chapter 78,
Article II, of this Code.
Hearing officer means an administrative law officer or administrative law judge appointed by the
Director of the Department of Administrative Hearings, to conduct hearings and to make final determination
regarding taxpayer or tax collector petitions and protests as to any issue arising under the provisions of this
article or under any other ordinance that imposes a fee or tax administered by the Department.
Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Processing Fee means all costs, incurred by the Department, associated with the Department's effort
to search for or obtain information required to process incomplete or incorrect payment documents,
remittance forms, tax returns, or other similar documents received from tax collectors, taxpayers or other
County debtors.
Tax means any sum, other than interest, penalties or fines, payable pursuant to a tax ordinance
administered by the Department.
Tax collector means any person required to collect and/or remit any tax payable to the Department or
who chooses to collect any tax payable to the Department.
Tax ordinance means any ordinance passed by the County Board that imposes a fee or tax administered
by the Department.

Page 32 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Tax remittance means all tax monies collected from taxpayers by a tax collector which are required to
be paid to the Department.
Taxpayer means any person required to pay any tax and upon whom the legal incidence of the tax is
placed.
***
Sec. 34-77. - Statute of limitations.
(a)Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Director shall not
issue any notice of tax determination and assessment for any period more than seven years after the end of
the calendar year in which the return for the period was filed with the Department or the end of the calendar
year in which the return for the period was due, whichever is later.
(b)No statute of limitations applies if:
(1) A fraudulent tax return or remittance return was filed;
(2) No tax return or remittance return was filed;
(3) No tax payment or tax remittance was paid or if a payment or remittance was made, the amount
paid or remitted was less than 75 percent of the tax due; or
(4) The person agrees to waive the applicable statute of limitations.
(c)If for any tax, during any seven-year period for which the Director may issue a notice of tax
determination and assessment, the tax paid or remitted was less than 75 percent of the tax due for that
period, no statute of limitations applies to that tax and the Director may issue a notice of tax determination
and assessment for any and all past periods.
(d)If an amended return was filed for any tax period, the seven-year period shall commence at the end
of the calendar year in which the amended return was filed. However, the Department shall not issue a
notice of tax determination more than six years after the original return was filed.
(e)This time limitation on the issuance of notices of tax determination and assessment shall apply only
to returns filed or payments due after April 1, 1993.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 33 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-1377
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
USE TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article
VII. Use Tax, Sections 74-272, 74-273, 74-275 and 74-277 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as Follows:
Sec. 74-272. Tax imposed, tax rate; collection; purchaser; and tax collector.
(a)Tax imposed on user. The tax imposed by this Article and the obligation to pay the same is upon
the user, as described in this Article.
(b)Tax Rate. Except as provided in Section 74-273, a tax is imposed at the rate of one percent on the
selling price of tangible personal property, purchased through a sale at retail, which is titled or registered
with an agency of the State of Illinois at location inside Cook County.
(c)Collection; remittance; sales receipt. The tax imposed by this Article shall be collected from the
purchaser by the tax collector as defined by Section 74-271, and remitted to the Department as provided in
this Article. The tax imposed by this Article shall, when collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and
apart from the selling price of tangible personal property; and, the tax collector when collecting the tax shall
give to the purchaser a receipt for such tax in the manner and form prescribed by the Department. Such
receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability for the tax to which such receipt
may refer.
(d)Tax paid by Purchaser. Except as provided in Section 74-277 273, the purchaser shall pay the tax
imposed by this Article to the tax collector.
(e)Tax Collector liable. The tax collector shall be liable to the County for the amount of tax that it is
required to collect; and, shall collect the tax from purchasers by adding the tax to the selling price of tangible
personal property, when sold for use in the County, in the manner prescribed by this Article and the
Department. If any retailer in collecting the amount which purports to constitute use taxes measured by
receipts from sales which are subject to tax under this Article, collects more from the purchaser than the
actual use tax liability on the transaction, the purchaser shall have a legal right to claim a refund of such
amount from such retailer. However, if such amount is not refunded to the purchaser for any reason, the
retailer is liable to pay such amount to the Department.
Sec. 74-273. - Purchaser paying tax directly to department.
(a)When tangible personal property is purchased from a retailer for use in the County by a purchaser
or user subject to the tax imposed by this Article, and who did not pay the tax imposed by this Article to
the retailer, and who did not file returns with the Department as a retailer under Section 74-276, such
purchaser or user shall, by the last 20th day of calendar month following the month in which such purchase
was made, file and return with the Department and pay the tax due under this Article.
Page 34 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(b)When tangible personal property is purchased by a lessor, which is subject to a lease for one year
or longer, executed or in effect at the time of purchase, to an interstate carrier for hire, where such lessor
did not pay the tax imposed by this Article to the retailer at the time of purchase, such lessor shall, by the
last day of the calendar month in which such property reverts to the use of such lessor, file a return with the
Department and pay the tax imposed by this Article upon the fair market value of such property on the date
of reversion.
(c)When a purchaser or user pays the tax imposed by this Article directly to the Department, the
Department shall issue an appropriate receipt to such purchaser or user showing that the tax has been paid
to the Department. Such receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser or user from further liability for
the tax to which the receipt may refer.
(d)A purchaser or user who is liable to pay use tax directly to the Department only occasionally and
not on a frequent recurring basis, and who is not required to file returns with the Department as a retailer
under Section 74-276 concerning the filing of regular monthly tax returns and all provisions concerning the
requirements of registrants to post bond or other security with the Department shall apply to such purchasers
or users.
***
Sec. 74-275. - Books and records to be kept.
It shall be the duty of all retailers, tax collectors and persons required by this Article to collect and/or
to pay the taxes imposed in this Article to keep and maintain all books, papers and records related to all
transactions taxable or non-taxable under this Article and to make such records available to the Director on
request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours. Books, papers and records which
relate to a return filed or required to be filed with the Department shall be kept for a the taxable time period
as provided for listed in the statute of limitations section of the in Chapter 34, Article III, Uniform Penalties,
Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Article III, Sec. 34-60 et seq.
***
Sec. 74-277. - Filing of returns and remittances.
(a)Monthly returns; remittances; due date. Except as provided in this Section, a tax collector, as
described in this Article, shall file a return and remit payment on or before the twentieth day of each calendar
month following the month for which the tax is due. A tax collector shall file a monthly return even when
no tax is due.
(b)Final monthly return; remittance. Any tax collector who ceases to engage in the business of making
retail sales of tangible person property which is titled or registered, with an agency of the State of Illinois,
at a location in the County shall file a final return under this Article with the Department not later than one
calendar month after making the last sale at retail. All taxes due to be paid to the County shall be remitted
to the County at the time the final return is filed with the Department.
(c)Tax collector Annual Return. Tax collectors shall file an annual information return, on forms and
including such information as prescribed by the Department, on the last day of the month following the
year for which the return is due.
Page 35 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(cd) Any retailer filing an information return under this Section shall also report, for the purpose of
paying taxes due thereon, the total tax, if any, imposed upon it for the use of tangible personal property
purchased by it for its own use, where such tax was not otherwise collected by the selling retailer. Such
filing retailer shall remit the tax to the Department when filing such return.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

16-1383
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMUSEMENT TAX ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article X.
Amusement Tax, Section 74-391 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-391. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement means any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment purposes,
including, but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional
show, motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic contest, sport,
game or similar exhibition, such as boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, riding on animals or
vehicles, baseball, basketball, softball, soccer, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
or billiard and pool games. For purposes of this article, the term "amusement" shall not mean any
recreational activity offered for public participation or on a membership or other basis, including, but not
limited to, carnivals, amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiards and pool games, dancing, tennis,
golf, racquetball, swimming, weightlifting, body building or similar activities. For purposes of this article,
the term "amusement" shall not mean raffles, as defined in 230 ILCS 15/1 (Raffles Act-definitions),
intertrack wagering facilities, as defined in the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 (230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.), or
automatic amusement devices.
Automatic amusement devices means any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, or
similar object may be operated generally by any person for use as a game, entertainment or amusement,
whether or not registering a score, and includes, but is not limited to, such devices as jukeboxes, marble
machines, pinball machines, video games, movie or video booths or stands and all games, operations or
transactions similar thereto under whatever name by which they may be indicated.
Charges paid means the gross amount of consideration paid for the privilege to enter, to witness or to
view an amusement, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credits,
property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever, but not
including charges that are added on account of the tax imposed by this article or on account of any other
tax imposed on the charge.
Page 36 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Department and Department of Revenue mean the County Department of Revenue.
Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a live performance in any of the
disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of the fine arts, such as live theater, music, opera, drama,
comedy, ballet, modern or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not include such
amusements as athletic events, races, or performances conducted at adult entertainment cabarets (as defined
in Section 14.2.1 of the Cook County Zoning Ordinance).
Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other space may accommodate as
determined by the local fire department or other appropriate governmental agency; provided, however, that
maximum capacity shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions that may be made
available for sale to a performance as stated in any binding written agreement relating to that performance.
If the number of tickets or admissions actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit,
then, for purposes of determining the applicable tax, the term "maximum capacity" shall mean such greater
number.
Operator means any person who sells or resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for
consideration or who, directly or indirectly, receives or collects the charges paid for the sale or resale of a
ticket or other license to an amusement. The term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the
business of selling or reselling tickets or other licenses to amusement, whether on-line, in person or
otherwise.
Owner means:
(1) With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being held, any person who has an
ownership or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat, area or other place who
presents, conducts or operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by agreement or
otherwise, another person to present, conduct or operate an amusement in such place;
(2) With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an ownership or leasehold
interest in such amusement or any person who has a proprietary interest in the amusement so as
to entitle such person to all or a portion of the proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses,
from the operation, conduct or presentation of such amusement, excluding proceeds from
nonamusement services and from sales of tangible personal property.
Patron means a person who acquires the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an amusement.
Person means any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution, partnership, limited
liability company, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver,
executor, trustee or other representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular and plural are included in any
circumstance.
Resale means the resale of a ticket or other license to an amusement after the ticket or other license
has been sold by the owner, manager or operator of the amusement, or by the owner, manager or operator
of the place where the amusement is being held, to an independent and unrelated third party.

Page 37 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Reseller means a person who resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for consideration. The
term includes, but is not limited to, ticket brokers and applies whether the ticket is resold by bidding,
consignment or otherwise and whether the ticket is resold in person, at a site on the Internet or otherwise.
Ticket means the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an amusement, whether or not expressed in
a tangible form.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

16-2190
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TOBACCO TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article XI.
Tobacco Tax, Sections 74-430, et seq. of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-430. Short title.
This article may be cited as the "Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance".
Sec. 74-431. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or definitions are used
herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.
Affix or affixed means to attach or attached tax stamps that cannot be removed from the cigarette pack
without being mutilated or destroyed.
Altered or mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity information is illegible or
incomplete unique serial number is illegible or incomplete. If a tax stamp does not include a unique serial
number, 75% of the stamp must be affixed to the cigarette pack.
Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.
Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other
than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as defined in this article).
Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of size or shape
and whether such tobacco is flavored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, or not, and the
wrapper of which is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.
Conceal or Cconcealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, cigarette tax stamps, or
Consumable Products in violation of this article, that are hidden or kept from being seen, found, observed
or discovered in an area, location or container and stored, possessed or offered for sale at a place of business
Page 38 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or in the possession of a wholesale
or retail tobacco dealer.
Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.
Consumable Product means any nicotine liquid solution or other material containing nicotine that is
depleted as a vapor product is used.
Consumer means a person who purchases cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, or Consumable Products
from a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer, and not for resale
purposes.
Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged, artificial or
imitation manufacturing label or tax stamp.
County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County of Cook.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.
Expired Tax Stamp means any tax stamp terminated or cancelled by notice, rule or regulation issued
by the Director.
Hinder or hindrance means to refuse, impede or prevent an inspection of premises or audit of books
or records.
Illegal import/export means cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products intended for sale or use outside the
United States that bear a manufacture’s statement, label, stamp, sticker, or notice indicating not intended
for sale, distribution or use in the United States, including but not limited to labels stating "For Export
Only", "U.S. Tax Exempt", "For Use Outside U.S.", or similar wording.
Improperly stamped pack means any packs of cigarettes or package on which a tax stamp is required
where thereon which is affixed an expired tax stamp, altered/mutilated; used or reused tax stamp,; or
counterfeit tax stamp.
Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing tobacco
and weighing more than four pounds per one thousand units.
Little cigar means any roll of tobacco, other than a cigarette, wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance
containing tobacco and not weighing more than four pounds per one thousand units.
Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as
provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or person breaking or
otherwise opening any cigarette package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of
unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of

Page 39 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

cigarettes that is smaller than the smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer
use.
Loose little cigars means little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack or package
as provided by the manufacturer.
Manufacturer means any person, other than a Retail Cigarette Manufacturer, who makes or fabricates
cigarettes, other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products and sells them.
Other Tobacco Products includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, smoking tobacco, large
cigars and little cigars, but does not include cigarettes.
Pack or pPackage means the original packet, box, tin or container whatsoever used to contain and to
convey cigarettes, other tobacco products, or Consumable Products to the consumer.
Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling is
suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.
Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place, location or area where
cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products, as defined in this ordinance,
inventorymay be sold, stored, possessed or transported for sale or resale, including, but not limited to, any
building, garage, storage shed, vessel, vehicle (or any other forms of transportation situated on the premises
either in such building, garage or storage shed, or within a store parking lot or assigned parking spaces
adjacent thereto); or such other property owned, leased or used by the wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or
employees thereof, or retail tobacco manufacturer or employees thereof, that is part of, adjacent or
appurtenant to the wholesale or retail facility at which such wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer
or retail cigarette manufacturer is engaged in the business of selling cigarettes and/or Other Tobacco
Products. is possessed, stored or sold.
Purchaser means a buyer of cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, or Consumable Products, including,
but not limited to, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and/or consumers.
Retail cigarette manufacturer means any retail tobacco dealer who provides to consumers tobacco and
other material and equipment for the production and sale of cigarettes within the retail cigarette
manufacturer's premises in Cook County.
Retail manufactured cigarettes means cigarettes made or fabricated on the premises of a retail
cigarette manufacturer using tobacco and other material and equipment provided by a retail cigarette
manufacturer as defined in this Article.
Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or Consumable Products in the County of Cook to a consumer whether or not they are
licensed to be a retail tobacco dealer. A retail tobacco dealer shall not include any person who is licensed
by the State of Illinois as a tobacco distributor or wholesaler.
Page 40 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Roll-your-own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or
labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes or cigars or for use as wrappers of cigars or cigarettes.
Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a valuable consideration.
Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco products not intended
to be smoked.
Smoking tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other kinds and forms of
tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable for smoking in a pipe or cigarette.
Snuff means any finely cut, ground or powdered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.
Snus means any moist tobacco product that is not intended to be smoked.
Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania device thereon, of such size,
design, color and denominations as may be prescribed and procured by the Department which, when affixed
to a package of cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the tax thereon, as provided by this article.
Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snus, snuff or snuff flour; Cavendish; plug
and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweeping of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for
chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or both chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes
or tobacco purchased for the manufacture of cigarettes by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and
manufacturers as defined in this article.
Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to measure the quantity sold based
on length, width, weight such as pounds, ounces and/or grams or volume or some other similar unit of
measure, including, but not limited to, per item.
Unstamped pack means any pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County tax stamp is required to be
affixed but is not affixed.
Use means any exercise of a right or power, actual or constructive, and shall include, but is not limited
to, the receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention for any length of time, but shall not include possession
for sale by a retail tobacco dealer, retail cigarette manufacturer or wholesale tobacco dealer as defined in
this article.
Used or reused tax stamp means any tax stamp previously affixed to a tobacco product, removed and
subsequently affixed to any tobacco product purchased, offered for sale or sold by any person, wholesale
or retail tobacco dealer; or any removed tax stamp purchased, offered for sale, sold by, or in the possession
of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Page 41 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Vapor product means any nonlighted, noncombustible product that employs a mechanical heating
element, battery, or electronic circuit regardless of shape or size and that can be used to produce vapor from
nicotine in a solution. The term includes any vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or
other form that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, or similar product or device. The term does not include any product regulated by the
United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act.
Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling or supplying
cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products, who brings or causes to be brought into
the County of Cook cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products for sale or resale to
retail tobacco dealers and/or retail cigarette manufacturers in or outside the County of Cook. For the
purposes of this article, wholesale tobacco dealers also includes persons or businesses licensed as tobacco
distributors, cigarette distributors or wholesalers with the State of Illinois.
Sec. 74-432. Registration of wholesale, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturer.
Wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers as defined in this
article, shall register with the Department in accordance with policies or procedures prescribed by the
Department.
Sec. 74-433. Tax imposed; cigarettes, other tobacco products; collection; remittance.
(a)Cigarette Tax rate. A tax at the rate of 150 mils or $0.15 per cigarette is hereby imposed upon all
cigarettes possessed for sale and upon the use of all cigarettes within the County of Cook, the ultimate
incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax
imposed hereby at the rate of 150 mils or $0.15 per cigarette shall become in force and effect on March 1,
2013. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
(b)Cigarette Tax stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this section shall be paid by purchase of tax
stamps from the Department, except as otherwise provided in Subsections 74-446(a) and (b) of this article.
The Department shall only sell Cook County cigarette tax stamps to cigarette distributors who are licensed
with the State of Illinois. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer, before delivering or causing
to be delivered any cigarettes to a retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from the
Department a tax stamp for each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery of
such cigarettes to any retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall be affixed and cancelled
in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the Department.
(c)Retail cigarette manufacturer tax rate and sale. A tax at the rate of $0.15 per cigarette is hereby
imposed upon each cigarette sold by a retail cigarette manufacturer. The tax herein levied shall be in
addition to any and all other taxes. Retail cigarette manufacturers shall not store, possess or maintain any
loose retail manufactured cigarettes or packs of retail manufactured cigarettes. Retail manufactured
cigarettes must be manufactured only at the time of sale.
(d)Other tobacco product tax rate. A tax at the rates specified in this section is hereby imposed upon
the sale of all Other Tobacco Products possessed for sale and upon the use of all Other Tobacco Products
within the County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne by
Page 42 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

the Consumer of said Other Tobacco Products. The tax imposed hereby at the rates listed in Subsection (1)
shall come into force and effect on March 1, 2012 and Subsection (2) on January 1, 2013.
(1) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products through
December 31, 2012:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Smoking tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
Smokeless tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.
Large cigars: $0.25 per unit or cigar.

(2) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products effective
January 1, 2013:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Smoking tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.
Smokeless tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.
Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.
Large cigars: $0.30 per unit or cigar.

(e)Consumable Product tax rate. Effective May 1, 2016, a tax at the rate of $0.20 per fluid milliliter
is hereby imposed upon Consumable Products sold within the County of Cook. All invoices for vapor
products issued by manufacturers and/or wholesalers must state the amount of Consumable Products in
milliliters. The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is to be borne by the Consumer
of such Consumable Products.
(f)Wholesale Tobacco Dealer, Retail Tobacco Dealer and Retail Cigarette Manufacturer Tax
collection. Any wholesale tobacco dealer shall collect the tax levied by this article from any Purchaser to
whom the sale of said cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products is made within the
County of Cook and shall remit to the County the tax levied by this article. Any retail tobacco dealer and
retail cigarette manufacturer also shall collect the tax from any Consumer to whom the sale of said
cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products is made within the County of Cook. Any
such tax shall be collected as a trustee for and on account of the County of Cook. Nothing in this Article
shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer,
and retail cigarette manufacturer.
(g)Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products tax remittance.
(1) Wholesale Tobacco Dealers. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to remit the
tax due on the sales of Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products to retail tobacco dealers
and/or retail cigarette manufacturers in Cook County on forms prescribed by the Department, on
or before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the sales of Other Tobacco
Products occurred. Registered wholesale tobacco dealers must file a monthly return even if no tax
is due.
(2) Retail Cigarette Manufacturers. It shall be the duty of every retail cigarette manufacturer to remit
the tax due on cigarettes produced and sold on the premises, on forms prescribed by the
Department, on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the
Page 43 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

cigarette sales occurred. Registered retail cigarette manufacturers must file a monthly return even
if no tax is due.
(3) Retail tobacco dealers’ and/or retail cigarette manufacturers’ untaxed Other Tobacco Products
and Consumable Products. It shall be the duty of every retail tobacco dealer and/or retail cigarette
manufacturer that purchases or acquires Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products on
which the tax set forth in this Article has not been paid, to remit the tax due, on forms prescribed
by the Department, on or before the twentieth day following the month in which the Other
Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products were purchased, acquired or manufactured by the
retail tobacco dealer and/or retail cigarette manufacturer for which taxes were not paid were sold
in Cook County to a consumer. Registered retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers
must file a monthly return even if no tax is due.
(h)Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a wholesale tobacco
dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to fail to include the tax imposed in this article
in the sale price of cigarettes, other tobacco products, and Consumable Products to otherwise absorb such
tax. The tax levied in this Article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
(i)Tax debt owed to County. The tax required in this article to be remitted to the County shall constitute
a debt owed by any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer.
Sec. 74-434. Tax-free sales.
Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay or collect a tax with respect
to cigarettes, other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products which are otherwise subject to the tax
when the cigarettes, other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products are being sold to the following:
(a)Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County tobacco wholesaler's registration
certificate; or
(b)A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer when the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or
its agent, delivers the cigarettes, other tobacco products, and or Consumable Products to a location outside
of Cook County.
Additionally, a wholesale tobacco dealer's sale of other tobacco products and/or Consumable Products
to a consumer shall not be taxed so long as the sale occurs outside of Cook County.
Sec. 74-435. Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.
(a)It shall be a violation of this article to engage in the sale, possession, or use of the followingany
cigarettes, other tobacco products, and or Consumable Products subject to any tax provided by this article
upon which said tax has not been paid or the stamps affixed and cancelled as herein required, including, as
described in this article:
(1) Counterfeit cigarettes or counterfeit other tobacco products.
(2) Counterfeit tax stamps.
Page 44 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(3) Improperly stamped packs.
(4) Unstamped packs.
(5) Illegal imports/exports Other tobacco products and Consumable Products.
(6) Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products on which the tax should have been paid
and has not been paid.
(7) Used/reused tax stamps.
(8) Packs bearing an altered or mutilated tax stamp.
(9) Retail manufactured cigarettes either loose or in packs.
(b)It shall be a violation of this article for any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer, or retail
cigarette manufacturer to engage in any of the following:
(1) Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering for sale or resale packs of
cigarettes affixed with a used or reused tax stamp.
(2) Concealment, as described in this article.
(3) Sell or distribute loose cigarettes.
(4) Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered Cook County wholesale tobacco
dealer, unless each package bears an unmutilated Cook County tax stamp affixed, or where the
selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the unstamped cigarettes to a location
outside Cook County.
(5) Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from performing an inspection or
audit.
(c)Prima facie presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a wholesale tobacco dealer, or retail
tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer of any item(s) listed in Section 74-435(a)(1) through (9)
above; and/or any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer engaging
in activity as set forth in Section 74-435(b)(1) through (5) above; and/or altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used
or reused tax stamps; or packs of counterfeit, improperly stamped, unstamped cigarettes or loose cigarettes;
and the sale or resale, by a retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer, of Other Tobacco Products
and/or Consumable Products on which the tax provided by this article has not been paid the failure of any
wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to present books and records
showing that applicable taxes have been paid shall give rise to the prima facie presumption that the
wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer is in violation of the
provisions of this article. Wholesale tobacco dealers, rRetail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette
manufacturers shall be held strictly liable for violations of this ordinance that occur within their premises
regardless of the employment status of the actual violator, or regardless of the actual knowledge of the
wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer of such activities by the
Page 45 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

wholesale tobacco dealer’s, retail tobacco dealer’s or retail cigarette manufacturer’s employees or other
third party actors within those premises.
(d)Personal use is not a defense when charged with violating this ordinance.
(de) Cigarette pack, tax stamp, loose cigarettes, other tobacco products and hindrance violation
pPenalties
Violation Type
Altered/mutilated
40 packs or less
41 packs or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Books and records
1st Offense
2nd Offense
Concealment
1st Offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Consumable Products
1st Offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Counterfeit packs of cigarettes
40 or less
41 or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Counterfeit tax stamps
40 or less
41 or more, per stamp
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Hinder inspection or audit/Hinderance
1st Offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Illegal imports/exports
40 packs or less
41 packs or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Improperly stamped packs
40 or less
41 or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Loose cigarettes
40 or less
41 or more, per cigarette
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Penalties Amount
$2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
$2,000.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
25.00
2,000.00
Page 46 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Other tobacco products
1st offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Retail manufactured cigarette packs
40 packs or less
41 or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Sales to unregistered wholesalers
1st offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Unstamped packs
40 packs or less
41 packs or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Utilization of used or reused tax stamps
40 or less packs or stamps
41 or more packs or stamps, per pack or stamp
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Hinder inspection or audit
1st offense
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

April 13, 2016

1,000.00
2,000.00
1,000.00
25.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
25.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00

Sec. 74-436. Other violation penalties.
(a)Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, excluding the violations described
in Section 74-435 (Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties), shall be subject to a fine
in the amount of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent
offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person
shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the
Department. Each violation of this article shall be a separate and distinct violation.
(b)Criminal penalties. Every person who shall falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit any tax stamp,
or who, with intent to defraud the County, shall affix or cause to be affixed any counterfeit or altered stamp
to any package of cigarettes, knowing said stamp to be counterfeit or altered, shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor, in addition to any other criminal penalties which may be applicable under Illinois or Federal
law.
(c)Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of
the County to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as
well as costs incurred for such proceeding.
Sec. 74-437. Internet, mail order and outside-of-county purchases.
(a)Cigarettes. With respect to cigarettes purchased over the internet, by mail order or outside the
County, if the tax on cigarettes which is imposed pursuant to this article, as amended, has not been paid by
Page 47 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

a wholesaler or retailer prior to use or possession of the cigarette by a person within the County of Cook,
such person shall be obligated to make payment of the tax directly to the Department. Within 30 days of
purchase, such person shall file a return with the Department of Revenue and pay the tax, penalties and
interest due under this article, as amended.
(b)Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products. With respect to other tobacco products and
Consumable Products purchased by a consumer over the internet, by mail order or outside the County, if
the tax on such other tobacco products and/or Consumable Products imposed pursuant to this article has
not been collected and/or remitted to the County previously by a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco
dealer or retail tobacco manufacturer prior to use or possession the sale of the other tobacco products by a
person to the consumer within the County of Cook, such consumer shall be obligated to remit the tax due
to the County, on forms prescribed by the Department, on or before the twentieth day following the month
in which any such other tobacco products and/or Consumable Products were purchased by the consumer.
Sec. 74-438. Mutilation of tax stamps.
It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any package of cigarettes before
it is sold by a retail tobacco dealer.
Sec. 74-439. Books and records to be kept.
(a)Wholesale tobacco dealer records of deliveries. At the time of delivering cigarettes, Other Tobacco
Products, and/or Consumable Products to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall be the
duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice, numbered serially, showing the
date of delivery, the number of packages, the number of cigarettes contained therein in each shipment of
cigarettes delivered, amount of Other Tobacco Products delivered, and/or amount, in milliliters, of
Consumable Products delivered, and the name of the purchaser to whom delivery is made. The wholesale
tobacco dealer shall issue one copy of the invoice to the purchaser, and shall retain one legible copy of the
same for the use and inspection of the Department for the period of time as provided for in the Cook County
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).
(b)Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases; sales; reconciliations. It shall be the duty of every
wholesale tobacco dealer and retail tobacco dealer to make or maintain cigarette, Other Tobacco Products,
and/or Consumable Products inventory:
(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered, indicating the date; name, address of the person or
business from whom the cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and or Consumable Products were
purchased; brand name, type and total number of packages to be purchased, in sequential date
order, including the amount of Consumable Products in milliliters.
(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address of the person
or business to whom the cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products were
delivered; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order
including the amount of Consumable Product in milliliters.
(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address
of the person or business to whom the cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable
Page 48 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Products were sold; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date
order, including the amount of Consumable Product in milliliters.
(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents, indicating in sequential date order, brand name, type and
total number of packs or amounts, including the amount of Consumable Product in milliliters, of
Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products sold, each day.
(5) WholesaleRetail tobacco dealer cigarette inventory reconciliation, indicating daily, weekly or
monthly beginning inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory, in sequential date order.
(6) Retail tobacco dealer monthly wholesaler list, indicating the name and address of each wholesaler
from whom cigarette, Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products inventory was
purchased; brand name; type and total number of packs and total amount of Consumable Product
in milliliters purchased from each wholesaler.
(c)Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be the duty of all wholesale tobacco
dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect
and/or to pay the taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain all books, papers and records related to all
transactions taxable and nontaxable under this article and to make such records available to the Director or
a duly authorized representative who has been appointed by the Director, on request for inspection, audit
and/or copying during regular business hours. The Department shall promulgate rules and regulations
specifying the records that shall be kept by wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette
manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect and/or pay the taxes herein imposed, and may
prescribe any forms appropriate in furtherance of this article. Books, papers and records which relate to a
return filed or required to be filed with the Department shall be kept for the period as provided for in the
Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.). The burden
shall be on the wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers to keep
records which verify the basis for any and all transactions which are claimed to be exempt from taxation
pursuant to Section 74-434 of this article.
Sec. 74-440. Inspections; audits.
Books and records kept in compliance with Section 74-439 of this article shall be made available to
the Department upon request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours.
Representatives of the Department shall be permitted to inspect or audit the premises for cigarette, Other
Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products inventory in or upon any premises. An audit or inspection
may include the physical examination of the cigarettes, packaging, cigarette tax stamps, Other Tobacco
Products, or Consumable Products. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, or hinder a duly
authorized Department representative from performing the enforcement duties provided in this article. The
Department shall be authorized to promulgate rules and procedures regarding hindrance violations.
Sec. 74-441. Confiscate; seize; redemption penalty.
(a)Confiscation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized representatives shall
discover any cigarettes, cigarette tax stamps, other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products
possessed, for sale, or used in violation of this articlesubject to any tax provided by this article upon which
said tax has not been paid or the stamps affixed and cancelled as herein required, they are hereby authorized
Page 49 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

and empowered forthwith to confiscate; seize and take possession of such cigarettes, cigarette tax stamps,
other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products together with any vending machine; receptacle;
container; vessel or holder in which they are held for sale except for money contained in such vending
machine or receptacle, and shall thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.
(b)Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department shall either destroy the cigarettes seized or may
permit the Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from whom the said cigarettes originatedwere seized, to redeem the
cigarettes and/or any vending machine or receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of the tax due and a
Redemption Penalty equal to 100 percent of the tax due, and including the cost incurred in such proceeding.
Such seizure, destruction, and sale, or redemption shall not be deemed to relieve any person from fine or
imprisonment provided herein for violation of any provision of this article.
(c)Other Tobacco Product and Consumable Products redemption. A retail tobacco dealer who was
unable to provide books and records evidencing tax payment at the time of confiscation may redeem the
confiscated Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products by submitting proof that the tax was
previously paid, or paying all tax due, and paying a fee of $25 in addition to any outstanding judgments
related to the original confiscation.
Sec. 74-442. Posting of signs.
Every retail tobacco dealer shall post a sign issued by the Department, indicating the offer to sell, the
sale or purchase of unstamped packs or loose cigarettes is unlawful. The sign shall be posted in a
conspicuous location, to anyone purchasing cigarettes, at the retailer's place of business.
Sec. 74-443. Wholesale tobacco dealer quarterly returns.
A sworn quarterly cigarette, other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products Revenue
Information return shall be filed by each wholesale tobacco dealer with the Department, on forms prescribed
by the Department. The return shall be filed on or before the last day of the first month following the
preceding quarter. Every wholesale tobacco dealer required to file a tax return under this section, who does
not file such tax return by its due date, or alternatively does not provide all required information on such
tax return, shall be subject to the penalties that are provided for in Section 74-436 of this article in addition
to all other penalties and interest that may be due as provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.). Quarterly returns, books and records, papers and original
source documents that provide support for the information that is included in the return filed with the
Department, shall be kept for the period as provided in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).
Sec. 74-444. Failure to file a return and/or remit tax.
In case of failure to file a tax return and remit this tax when due, the Department may assess penalties
and interest as provided for in this article and/or the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

Page 50 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Sec. 74-445. Authority to sell stamp; agents; credits/refunds.
(a)Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and furnish tax stamps of such
denominations and quantities as may be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed on cigarettes by this
article, and may, from time to time, provide for the issuance and exclusive use of stamps of a new design
and forbid the use of stamps of any other design.
(b)Credits or Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax stamps lawfully on the possession of
a wholesale tobacco dealerany person. Any wholesale tobacco dealerperson seeking credit and/or a refund
for unused tax stamps, tax stamps affixed to packages of cigarettes returned to a manufacturer, or for the
replacement of tax stamps, must file a claim in writing on forms prescribed by the Department. This form
must be filed with the Department no later than 12 months after the month in which the tax remittance or
tax payment was made to the Department. The United States post mark date or date of physical/actual
receipt is used, by the Department, to determine if a credit or refund is filed timely. No person shall sell or
offer for sale any stamp issued under this article, except by written permission of the Department. The
Department may prescribe rules and regulations concerning refunds, sales of stamps and redemption under
the provisions of this article.
Sec. 74-446. Single state and county stamp and monthly tax return.
(a)Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 74-433(b), Section
74-435, and Subsection 74-445(a) of this article, the Department may provide by regulation that the tax
imposed by this article shall, in the alternative, be collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single
tax stamp to be prepared jointly with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City
Comptroller of the City of Chicago) evidencing the payment of the tax imposed by this article. Toward that
end, the Department may make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as may be required with respect to the
method of acquiring, affixing, canceling and the manner of sharing the cost of such joint single tax stamps,
and may establish procedures for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected by the Department
of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) due and payable to
the County of Cook, in furtherance of the purposes of this article. In the event such alternative method as
herein provided is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax may be used within the relevant
jurisdiction; however, all other applicable provisions of this article shall nevertheless remain in full force
and effect.
(b)Monthly tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 74-433(b), Section 74-435,
Subsection 74-445(a) and subsection (a) of this section, the Department may provide by regulation that the
tax imposed on cigarettes by this article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the filing of a
sworn tax return to be prepared and filed by every wholesale tobacco dealer who sells cigarettes for
consumption in the County of Cook. Said return shall be filed on a monthly basis and shall contain the same
information required by Subsection 74-445(b) of this article. Said return shall be filed with the Department
on or before the fifteenth day of each month stating such other and further information as may be required
by the Department, and said return shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount of the tax due
and payable upon such taxable sales made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the County of Cook during
the preceding month. In the event such alternative method is utilized, no other method of collecting said
tax may be used; however, all other applicable provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect

Page 51 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

with the exception of the necessity of filing a quarterly tax return as provided in Section 74-443 of this
article, which shall not be required.
Sec. 74-447. Rulemaking.
(a)The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be
limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail tobacco
dealers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied.
(b)By November 20, 2016, every retail tobacco dealer doing business in the County of Cook shall file
with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of Other Tobacco Products and
Consumable Products, on which the tobacco tax was not previously paid, in their possession or control on
October 1, 2016. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall submit a Department issued tax return
and pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due with respect to all Other Tobacco Products and
Consumable Products, on which the tobacco tax was not previously paid, which were in the retail tobacco
dealer’s possession or control on October 1, 2016.
(bc) Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every wholesale tobacco dealer doing
business in the County of Cook shall file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory
of cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2013. With said inventory, the wholesale tobacco
dealer shall submit a Department issued tax return and pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due,
including any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all stamped
cigarettes which were in such wholesale tobacco dealer's possession on March 1, 2013.
(cd) Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in
the County of Cook shall file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes
in their possession or control on March 1, 2013. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall submit
a Department issued tax return and pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional
taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all cigarettes which were in such retail
tobacco dealer's possession on March 1, 2013.
(de) Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in
the County of Cook shall file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of tobacco
products in their possession or control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall
pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result of this article,
as amended, with respect to all tobacco products which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on
June 1, 2006.
(ef) Every retail tobacco dealer required to file a tax return under this section who does not file such
tax return by its due date, or alternatively does not provide all required information on such tax return, or
fails to pay all required tax due computed thereon, shall be subject to a penalty of $1,000.00 per business
location required to be reported on the tax return, in addition to all other penalties and interest that may be
due under the provisions of Chapter 34, Article III, Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures and Section
74-436 of this article.

Page 52 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Sec. 74-448. Transmittal of excess tax collections.
In the event a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer collects
an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this article, as amended, which amount is purported to be a
collection thereof, and said wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer
fails to return the said excess amount to the purchaser who paid the tax, the said wholesale tobacco dealer,
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer who collected the tax shall account for and pay over
all such excess amounts to the Department along with the tax properly collected.
Sec. 74-449. Deposit of tax proceeds.
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article, including penalties, shall be
paid to the Department. The Department shall direct every dollar collected from the 2013 increase in the
rate of the Home Rule Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System for Fiscal Year 2013 as approved by the Budget Director. Deposit of tax proceeds following Fiscal
Year 2013 shall be deposited into various funds and/or accounts as prescribed by the Budget Director.
Sec. 74-450. Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provision of this article or whenever this article is silent, the
provisions of the uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance, Article III, Chapter 34 of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances shall apply and supplement this article.
Secs. 74-451-74-469. Reserved.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect beginning June 1, 2016
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

16-1559
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File.
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Progress Report
Report Period: Ending 3/31/2016
Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Report ending 3/31/2016.

Page 53 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-1720
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Roy Strom Refuse Removal Service, Inc., Maywood, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Waste Removal Services
Location: Maintenance Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
County Board District(s): 5, 14, 16, 17
Original Contract Period: 4/1/2013 - 3/31/2015 with two (2), one (1) year renewal options.
Section: 13-7WMRD-01-MG
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/1/2016 - 3/31/2017
Section: 13-7WMRD-01-MG
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $148,537.50
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/12/2013, $68,537.50
Previous Board Increase(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/27/2015, 3/13/2015 - 3/12/2016,
$80,000.00
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $30,000.00 FY 2017 $10,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 12-53-453
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A

Page 54 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

16-2034
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
HIGHWAYS)

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

AGREEMENT

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): City of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: City of Chicago will direct the Phase II Design Engineering Services and
preparation of construction plans, specifications, estimates and contract documents for improvements
along Kedzie Avenue at Milwaukee Avenue and Logan Boulevard. The County will reimburse the City
of Chicago for its share of costs for the Phase II Design Engineering Services (estimated total County
share $240,000.00) under County Section: 14-W4632-01-EG.
Location: Kedzie Avenue at Milwaukee Avenue and Logan Boulevard in the City of Chicago
Section: 14-W4632-01-EG
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 8
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $240,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement to ensure safe, comfortable and
sustainable highways in accordance with the Department’s mission statement. The Agreement has been
examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s Office.

Page 55 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2035
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
HIGHWAYS)

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

AGREEMENT

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois Central Management Services, Springfield, Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: The Department of Transportation and Highways submits for execution an
Intergovernmental Agreement of Understanding for Maintenance and Construction with the Illinois
Central Management Services wherein the County will close the existing and future Permits for the
installation of fiber optic cable and release all the bonds.
Location:
11-08-3139-C Vollmer Road, I57 in the Village of Matteson
11-08-3143-C Steger Road, I57 in the Village of Monee
11-08-3144-C Flossmoor Road, I57 in the City of Country Club Hills
11-08-3147-C Sauk Trail, I57 in the Village of Richton Park
12-02-3383-C Roselle Road, Algonquin Road in the Village of Palatine
Section: N/A
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: County Wide
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts:

N/A

Summary: This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement to ensure safe, comfortable and
sustainable highways in accordance with the Department’s mission statement. The Agreement has been
examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s Office.
Additionally the Parties agree that the closure of future Permits granted by the County to CMS shall be
subject to the requirements of Section 3.

Page 56 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2250
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Action: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges. The Cook County Department of Transportation
and Highways requests permission to discuss the above captioned matter with the Board of
Commissioners, or the appropriate Committee thereof, pursuant to County Ordinance 95-O-7 regarding
acquisition of real estate.
Section: 14-A5015-04-RP
Parcel(s): 0KR0004TE-A, -B & -C
Location: Lake Cook Road, Raupp Boulevard to Weiland Road in the Village of Buffalo Grove
Board District: 14
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A

16-2368
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Plote Construction, Inc., Hoffman Estates, Illinois
Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Pavement Resurfacing Enhancement Program-North 2014 This improvement,
consisted of removal of the existing hot-mix asphalt surface, resurfacing with hot-mix asphalt surface
course, leveling binder (machine method), drainage repairs and adjustments, sidewalk removal and ADA
ramp replacement, pavement marking, traffic protection, top soil and seeding, guardrail upgrades and
maintenance and all other related work and miscellaneous appurtenances.
The decreases are attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities
of work performed with deductions in hot mix asphalt surface removal, hot mix asphalt binder course,
temporary butt joints, concrete sidewalk, traffic barrier terminal, seeding, survey monuments, engineer’s
field office and class c and d patching per field conditions.
Page 57 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Location of Project: Euclid Avenue, Plum Grove Road to Hicks Road in the City of Rolling Meadows
Illinois Road, Happ Road to Edens Expressway in the Village of Wilmette
Illinois Road, Skokie Road to Locust Road in the Villages of Northfields and Wilmette
Locust Road, Illinois Road to Hill Road in the Villages of Wilmette and Winnetka
Naperville Road, West Bartlett Road to Lake Street in Village of Bartlett
Techny Road, Sanders Road to Pfingsten Road in the Village of Northfield
Willow Road, Waterman Avenue to Shoenbeck Road in the Village of Arlington Heights and City of
Prospect Heights
Section: 13-PREPN-01-RS
County Board District: 13, 14, 15, 17
Contract Number: 1455-13427
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $2,479,422.08
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount:
Construction Contract Bid Amount

-$115,649.27 or 4.5% below the

Summary: On June 18, 2014 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Plote Construction, Inc.,
Hoffman Estates, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans
and specifications. The awarded contract amount of this project was $2,595,071.35 and the final
construction cost is $2,479,422.08. Motor Fuel Tax Fund 600-585 Account.

16-2372
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Transportation and Highways, Cook County Sheriff’s Office, Clerk of
the Circuit Court, Adult Probation Department and Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Vendor: Acorn Garage, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Maintenance, Repair, Parts and Labor for Buses and Heavy Duty Trucks for
Zone One (1).
Original Contract Period: 5/7/2012 - 5/6/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension:

5/7/ 2016 - 11/5/2016

Page 58 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$1,799,110.39

Original Approval (Board or Procurement):

5/1/2012, $384,155.00

April 13, 2016

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/18/2014, $608,000.00, 5/7/2014 - 5/6/2015;
6/10/2015, $806,955.39
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/12/2015, 5/7/2015 - 5/6/2016
This Increase Requested: $200,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $200,000.00
Accounts: Various 444
Contract Number(s): 11-53-130A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways, Cook County Sheriff’s Office, Clerk of
the Circuit Court, Adult Probation Department and Homeland Security and Emergency Management are
requesting an increase and extension to the contract with Acorn Garage, Inc. for maintenance, repair
parts and labor for buses and heavy duty trucks for Zone One (1). The Office of the Chief Procurement
Officer is working with User Agencies to complete the competitive bidding process for a new contract.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Acorn Garage, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF ASSET MANAGEMENT

16-2503
Presented by: ELAINE LOCKWOOD BEAN, Chief, Bureau of Asset Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Asset Management
Vendor: Clayco, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Office of the System Director-Supply Chain Management to extend and
amend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Developer Service

Page 59 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Original Contract Period: 11/18/2015 - 6/30/2016 (Phase #1)
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/1/2016 - 09/30/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $946,410.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/18/2015
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $112,640,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $13,027,729, FY 2017 $81,895,138, FY 2018 $17,717,133
Accounts: 1619
Contract Number(s): H15-25-126
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The County and CCHHS have determined that Clayco, Inc. (Developer) has completed
Phase 1 of the Agreement, which included programming, feasibility and schematic design services to
meet CCHHS administrative and clinical needs. A new 9-story, 282,000 square foot ambulatory and
administrative office building is proposed for the corner of West Polk Street and South Damen Avenue.
This building will allow CCHHS to decommission nearly 680,000 square feet of real estate (including
the Fantus Clinic, Polk Administration Building, and Hektoen Auditorium and Office). This new
building will allow CCHHS to compete in current and future healthcare markets, improve outpatient
services, reduce operating costs, avoid costly capital renewals for obsolete buildings, and increase
clinical and administrative efficiency.
The Agreement provides that upon completion of Phase 1 the County and CCHHS may elect to engage
the Developer for Phase 2 Services which will include the elaboration of the schematic design into
design development, construction documents and construction. The Construction Contract with the
County and CCHHS will be added as an amendment and modification to the Agreement.
The County and CCHHS seek authority to enter into a Construction Contract with the Developer which
will be added as an amendment and modification to the Agreement. The Clayco contract budget shall not
exceed $112,640,000.00 which includes: 1) $108,500,000.00 to design and construct the new buildings and
related site work; and 2) $4,140,000.00 as the owner’s contingency. The Agreement will be extended to
September, 2018 to allow for Phase 2 Services to be completed.

Page 60 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

16-2491
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Capital Planning and Policy, Facilities Management, Transportation and Highways
Vendor: The Gordian Group, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase

contract

Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2012 – 4/30/2015 with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/1/2016 – 4/30/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$3,550,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/14/2012, $1,050,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/10/2014, $2,500,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/24/2015, 5/1/2015 – 4/30/2016
This Increase Requested: $3,500,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $1,750,000.00, FY 2017 $1,750,000.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 580
Contract Number(s): 11-28-043
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The objective of the JOC program is to provide an alternate procurement method to enable
the County to rapidly engage construction projects simultaneously.
The request to increase in the amount of $3,500,000.00 is based on the available capacity of the JOC
Contractors. The Gordian Group’s fee for the services provided is assessed as a percentage of the value of
construction procured by the County through the JOC program. The increase requested through this
Page 61 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

amendment was calculated by the applying The Gordian Group’s percent fee against the total value of
construction that is available to be purchased by the County through its JOC contracts. The County is
under no obligation to expend the amount requested, and is only obligated to pay The Gordian Group’s fee
when the construction work is procured through the JOC program. This amendment will allow the County
to utilize these services on the new JOC contracts during their contract term.
This contract was awarded through a Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. The Gordian Group, Inc. was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.

16-2493
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Capital Planning & Policy; Facilities Management; Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Various vendors (see ”Summary” below)
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Countywide Job Order Contract (JOC) Program
Contract Value: $89,000,000.00
Contract period: 6/1/2016 - 5/31/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $44,500,000.00, FY 2017 $44,500,000.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 580
Contract Number(s): 1555-14475
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: JOC is a quantity based procurement process that allows the facility owners to complete a
multitude of repair/maintenance/replacement and construction projects with a single, competitively bid
contract. The JOC process generally involves first selecting a vendor pool of potential contractors
through a competitive procurement process, and then identifying projects for such selected contractors.
Explanation of Fiscal Impact: The County will award a series of JOC contracts for a not to exceed dollar
amount. The number of projects and dollar value of each are unknown at this time. The potential fiscal
impact of $44.5 million annually for (2) years. The contracts that have $0.00 listed as a not to exceed
amount are for use by other entities such as the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, the Chicago
Housing Authority, and municipalities that utilize our program.
Page 62 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
The contractors listed in the table below are the lowest, responsive and responsible bidders in each
respective category.
Contract No.

Vendors Pool

Not to Exceed Base Term
Amount (2 years)

General Contractors
1555-14475 GC 1

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen & Associates LLC

$7,000,000.00

1555-14475 GC 2

AGAE Contractors, Inc.

$7,000,000.00

1555-14475 GC 3

Paul Borg Construction Company

$7,000,000.00

1555-14475 GC 4

Old Veteran Construction, Inc.

$7,000,000.00

Mechanical Contractors
1555-14475 MC 5

S Mechanical, Inc.

$5,000,000.00

1555-14475 MC 6

Paschen Autumn Joint Venture

$5,000,000.00

Electrical Contractors
1555-14475 EC 7

Paschen M. G. Joint Venture

$5,000,000.00

1555-14475 EC 8

Sharlen Electric Company

$5,000,000.00

Site Work Contractors
1555-14475 SW 9

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen & Associates LLC

$4,000,000.00

1555-14475 SW 10

MQ Sewer & Water Contractors, Inc. dba MQ
Construction Company

$4,000,000.00

Demolition Contractors
1555-14475 D 11

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen & Associates LLC

$10,000,000.00

1555-14475 D 12

Old Veteran Construction, Inc.

$10,000,000.00

Residential Contractors
1555-14475 RC 13

Pacific Construction Services, Inc.

$0.00

General Contractors
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 GC SBE 14

AGAE Contractors, Inc.

$3,000,000.00

1555-14475 GC SBE 15

Pacific Construction Services, Inc.

$3,000,000.00

Page 63 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Mechanical Contractor
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 MC SBE 16

Autumn Construction Services, Inc.

$2,000,000.00

Electrical Contractor
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 EC SBE 17

All Tech Energy, Inc.

$2,000,000.00

Site Work Contractor
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 SW SBE 18

MQ Sewer & Water Contractors, Inc. dba MQ
Construction Company

$1,500,000.00

Demolition Contractor
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 D SBE 19

AGAE Contractors, Inc.

$1,500,000.00

Residential Contractor
Small Business Enterprise
1555-14475 RC SBE 20

Accel Construction Services, Inc.

16-2496
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): The Department of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: The Bowa Group, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Contract Value: $854,888.00
Contract period: 4/25/2016 - 4/24/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $854,888.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 580
Contract Number(s): 1555-14935
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Page 64 of 94

$0.00

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This project provides for the construction of two new children’s advocacy rooms located at
the Criminal Courts Administration Building and the Rolling Meadows Courthouse. These rooms will
provide a safe, nurturing environment free from the stressful, emotionally charged atmosphere of a
courtroom for children whose parents are conducting court business. These rooms seek to ensure every
child is recognized as an individual whose gender, abilities, personal privacy, choice of activities, and
cultural, ethnic and religious background are treated with dignity and respect.
The Children’s Advocacy Rooms provide free, on-site child care, staffed by experienced early child
development professionals who are trained to respond compassionately to children whose experience
with the court can involve highly charged & emotional issues. The rooms are welcoming environments,
cheerfully decorated and child centered with age and developmentally appropriate activities. An array of
books, toys games, and movies allow the children to be children. Each room will also have a Parent
Resource Center with brochures and pamphlets provided by social service and other outreach agencies.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
The Bowa Group, Inc., is the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

16-2499
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): The Department of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: Pagoda-CCI Joint Venture I, Flossmoor, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Contract Value: $3,393,000.00
Contract period: 4/25/2016 - 4/24/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016, $3,393,000.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 580
Contract Number(s): 1555-15033
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This project provides for renovation on floors 7, 8 and 9 at the Criminal Courts
Administration Building. The Public Defender’s Office occupied these floors with 218 full time
Page 65 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

employees (FTE). The renovation will upgrade the physical environment to adequately support the
operational and staffing requirements of the Public Defender Office. Furthermore, it will provide a more
efficient layout to consolidate staffing to accommodate a total of 276 FTEs.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Pagoda-CCI Joint Venture I, is the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

16-1127
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Southwest Industries, Inc. d/b/a Anderson Elevator Company, Broadview, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): County-wide Elevators, Escalators, Dumbwaiters, Wheelchair Lifts, and Related
Equipment Maintenance and Repair
Contract Value: $8,961,643.00
Contract period: 3/1/2016 – 2/28/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:
200-450 FY 2016 $1,586,262.96; FY 2017 $2,115,017.28; FY2018 $2,115,017.28; FY2019 $528,754.48;
898-450 FY2016 $97,316.66, FY 2017 $106,407.66, FY2018 $106,407.66, FY 2019 $9,280.02;
897-450 FY2016 $486,202.73, FY2017 $648,270.33 FY2018 $648,270.00 FY2019 $162,067.56;
891-450 FY2016 $97,880.00, FY2017 $117,456.00, FY2018 $117,456.00, FY2019 $19,576.00
Accounts: 200-450, 898-450, 897-450, 891-450
Contract Number(s): 1545-14645
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will ensure that all transport/lift devices for the Department of Facilities
Management, Stroger Hospital, Provident Hospital and Oak Forest Hospital are operational.

Page 66 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

The competitive bidding process was followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Bids were solicited for maintenance and repair services for elevators, escalators, dumbwaiters and
wheelchair lifts. Southwest Industries, Inc. d/b/a Anderson Elevator Company was the lowest, responsive
and responsible bidder.

16-1938
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Fund Transfer
Reason: To allow Facilities Management to purchase additional custodial supplies
From Account(s): 200-333, $100,000.00
To Account(s): 200-330, $100,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $100,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
It became apparent on 2/23/2016 that account 330 would need additional funding. As of 2/22/2016 the
balance was $54,003.00 and on 1/26/2016 the balance was $77,137.00
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
This account was chosen because of the amount of unencumbered funds
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
This account was chosen because of the unobligated amount in the account listed above.

Page 67 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2083
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Tiles In Styles, LLC d/b/a Taza Supplies, Naperville, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Furnish and Install Carpeting
Original Contract Period: 7/1/2012 - 6/30/2015, with one (1), one (1) year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$1,720,800.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/1/2012, $1,420,400.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/29/2015, $300,400.00; 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $900,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $900,000.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 583
Contract Number(s): 12-45-039
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase will allow Tiles In Styles, LLC d/b/a Taza Supplies to continue to supply and
install carpeting throughout County facilities at the request of the Department of Facilities Management.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Tiles In Style, LLC d/b/a Taza Supplies was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.

Page 68 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2101
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Transfer of funds
Reason: To allow Facilities Management to rent equipment
From Account(s): 200-333, $100,000.00
To Account(s): 200-638, $100,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $100,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
It became apparent on 3/1/2016 that additional funds would be needed in this account. The balance on
3/1/2016 was $19,125.00. The balance in this account on 2/1/2016 was 57,000.00
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
This account was chosen because of the amount of unencumbered funds.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
This account was chosen because of the unobligated amount in the account listed above.

Page 69 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2267
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Department of Facilities Management, Cook County Sheriff’s Office and Department
of Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, Park Ridge, New Jersey
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Equipment Rental Services
Contract Value: $624,200.00
Contract period: 4/15/2016 - 4/14/2017, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:
200 FY2016 $175,000.00; FY2017 $125,000.00
499 FY2016 $72,450.00; FY2017 $51,750.00
501 FY2016 $75,000.00; FY2017 $125,000.00
Accounts: 200-638, 499-444, 501-638
Contract Number(s): 1684-15307
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management, Cook County Sheriff’s Office and Department of
Transportation and Highways request authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and
execute a contract with Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation to provide, on a limited basis, rental options
to support a shortage of industrial equipment and an aging fleet.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code. Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation was previously awarded a contract through a
Request for Proposals (RFP) process through U.S. Communities, a national government purchasing
cooperative sponsored by the National Association of Counties (NACo) and the National Institute of
Government Purchasing (NIGP), and in cooperation with North Carolina State University. Cook County
would like to leverage this procurement effort.

Page 70 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

16-2040
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Real Estate Management
Vendor: Applied Real Estate Analysis, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Real Estate Appraisal Services
Original Contract Period: 2/20/2013 - 1/31/2015, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/1/2016 - 1/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $50,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): $50,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/27/2015, 2/1/2015 - 1/31/2016
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: 031-260
Contract Number(s): 13-88-033
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This second of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will allow Applied Real Estate
Analysis, Inc. to continue to provide real estate appraisal services, on an as-needed basis, for projects
undertaken by the Cook County Real Estate Division which require qualified and licensed real estate
appraisal professionals. The Department of Real Estate Management provides oversight of appraisal
services provided by Applied Real Estate Analysis, Inc.

Page 71 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code. Applied Real Estate Analysis, Inc. was previously awarded a contract by the City of
Chicago through a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process.

16-2041
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Real Estate Management
Vendor: Allied Appraisal Company, Burr Ridge, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Real Estate Appraisal Services
Original Contract Period: 2/20/2013 - 1/31/2015, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/1/2016 - 1/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $50,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/19/2013, $50,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/27/2015, 2/1/2015 - 1/31/2016
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: 031-260
Contract Number(s): 13-88-033A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This second of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will allow Allied Appraisal Company
to continue to provide real estate appraisal services, on an as-needed basis, for projects undertaken by the
Cook County Real Estate Division which require qualified and licensed real estate appraisal
professionals. The Department of Real Estate Management provides oversight of appraisal services
provided by Allied Appraisal Company

Page 72 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code. Allied Appraisal Company was previously awarded a contract by the City of
Chicago through a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process.

16-2198
Presented by: ELAINE LOCKWOOD BEAN, Chief, Bureau of Asset Management
JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Department(s): Real Estate Management
Other Part(ies): Civic Health Development Group (“CHDG”), CHDG is a joint venture development
team of MB Real Estate Services, Inc., Walsh Investors, LLC, Plenary Group USA Ltd and Granite
Companies LLC, Chicago, Illinois.

Authorization for the Director of Real Estate Management to enter into a
redevelopment agreement and associated ground leases on behalf of the County of Cook with the
Civic Health Development Group (“CHDG”).
Request:

Good(s) or Service(s): CHDG will serve as the County’s market rate development team of the Old
Cook County Hospital site and adjoining real estate within the Cook County Hospital campus which is
also known as the Hospital Campus Redevelopment
Agreement period: Ninety-nine year ground lease, with (2) twenty-five year
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Summary/Notes: CHDG was selected following the issuance of a Request for Proposal (“RFP”) by the
Cook County Bureau of Asset Management Department of Real Estate in January of 2015. The RFP
solicited a master developer for the redevelopment of the Old Cook County Hospital site and adjoining
real estate, which includes the Hektoen and Durand buildings in Chicago, Illinois. The redevelopment
will be implemented by utilizing market rate ground leases. The Redevelopment Agreement (“RDA”),
will provide the County with a plan for efficient use of the County’s real estate assets and long range
improvements for these identified real estate assets. The RDA will enable the preservation and reuse of the
historic Old Cook County Hospital building. Upon completion, the project is also expected to enhance the
hospital campus with new residential units, hotel rooms and additional commercial space. The project
buildings associated with the RDA will have a sustainability goal of LEED Silver. Upon Board approval,
the Director of Real Estate Management shall be authorized to (a) execute the redevelopment agreement
and the associated market rate ground leases with CHDG on behalf of the County of Cook in the form
submitted and on terms no less favorable than those set forth therein; and (b) execute such additional
documents as may be necessary to implement the foregoing. The Director of Real Estate shall be further
charged to deliver any and all notices under the RDA, including but not limited to any notice to terminate
Page 73 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

the RDA in the event unsatisfactory matters are discovered during the due diligence period.

16-2490
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Real Estate Management
Other Part(ies): Bright Horizons Children’s Centers, Watertown, Massachusetts
Request: Authorization to extend for five (5) years, an operational agreement
Good(s) or Service(s): Bright Horizons is responsible for the operation of the Cook County/City of
Chicago Child Development Center, located in the George W. Dunne Office Building at 69 West
Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Agreement period: The initial Contract for Service Document (the “Operating Agreement”) was
approved by the Board of Commissioners on 3/8/2001. The Board approved a five (5) year renewal on
4/5/2006. The Board approved an additional five (5) year term on 5/17/2011. The current contract
expires 5/31/2016. The Extension Period will be 6/1/2016 - 5/31/2021.
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Agreement Number(s): Contract No. 01-41-806
Summary: Bright Horizons Children’s Centers was selected to operate the center through a Request for
Proposals (RFP) process in 2001. The Center opened in 2001, and since that time has provided high-quality
early childhood education to approximately 112 children aged six weeks through five years. In 2012, Bright
Horizons completed the lengthy process of obtaining accreditation through NAEYC (National Association
for the Education of Young Children). This status is achieved by only 8 % of centers nationwide, and is
indicative of a highly professional educational and caring environment. NAEYC Accreditation is granted
to the operator, not the center, and would be lost if Bright Horizons ceased operating the center. Based upon
Bright Horizons Children’s Center exceptional performance to date, and the best interests of the families
enrolled in the Center, it is the recommendation of the Joint Oversight Committee that an extension of the
contract for five (5) years be approved.

Page 74 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2492
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: City of Chicago
Tenant: County of Cook, for use by Cook County Sheriff’s Office, Department of Mental Health Policy
and Advocacy
Location: 2418 W. Division Street, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: Commencement upon Board Approval - 12/31/2026
Space Occupied: 730 Square feet
Monthly Rent: None
Fiscal Impact: $1.00 and other value consideration
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By either party, with a 120 day prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary/Notes: As part of the City/County collaboration initiative, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Department of Mental Health Policy and Advocacy will utilize space on the first floor of the Building as a
mental health center operated by the Cook County Department of Corrections. The goal of the center is to
allow for a continuation of care for formerly incarcerated individuals with identified mental health needs
following their release from the Cook County Department of Corrections. The center will target those
individuals that live in close proximity to the center.

Page 75 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

16-2431
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County

PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Request: Correcting P.I.N. Numbers on a previously approved resolution
Item Number: 15-4074
Fiscal Impact:
Account(s):

N/A
N/A

Original Text of Item: 7852 W. 47TH STREET, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: 7852 W. 47th Street, LLC
Address: 7852 W. 47th Street, Lyons, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Lyons
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 18-01-0322322-009-0000 and 18-01-0322322-010-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Lyons Resolution Number 05-19-15-R1
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 15 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10 full-time, 10 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 13 full-time, 8 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Not applicable
Estimated Number of construction jobs: none
Page 76 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Proposed use of property: Manufacturing, assembling and distribution of decorated glass
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

Page 77 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2472
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
VK 1019 NOEL, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: VK 1019 Noel, LLC
Address: 1019 Noel, Wheeling, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Wheeling
Cook County District: 14
Permanent Index Number: 03-14-103-010-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Wheeling Resolution Number 15-133
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Number of months vacant two (2)
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: not available
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: not available
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: not available
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 25 construction workers
Proposed use of property: The applicant intends to lease the property to an industrial user
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and

Page 78 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

16-2483
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY
(CDBG-DR)
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Presidio Capital, LLC, Hinsdale, Illinois
Request: Approval of a CDBG - DR Loan with Developer and Homebuyer Subsidies
Total Development Cost: $7,000,000.00
Project Loan Amount: $7,000,000.00
Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): N/A
Page 79 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Summary: The Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submits the attached Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery project loan
recommendation in the amount of $7,000,000.00 to Presidio Capital, LLC. This project loan will be
utilized to support CDBG -DR-eligible project costs incurred during the new construction of 29 new
townhomes and single family homes in Cicero, Illinois as replacement housing for households displaced
by the 2013 Flood. The area of Cicero where these homes will be built (northeast corner) is not in a 100
year flood plain, but is near transit and meets the new energy star ratings for new construction. The
construction of these units is in keeping with Planning for Progress and the CDBG -Disaster Recovery
Action Plan.
The requested CDBG -DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the
following terms:
Loan Type: Construction Loan will be provided to the Developer, and then the down payment
assistance will be recorded as Second Mortgage by Cook County and remain subordinate to the
permanent first mortgage to the homebuyer
Interest Rate: The loan will be a zero percent (0%) interest repayable of the sale of each home to a
qualified homebuyer
Loan Term: The Project is estimated to have a “construction” phase of (12) months to complete with a
detailed schedule to be set forth in final loan documents subject to the guidance and final approval of
HUD.
Lien Position: County is the sole lender and recorded in first position during construction and then
Cook County will award on a case by case needs basis a second mortgage for each homebuyer to ensure
compliance with the abovementioned Affordability Period.
Buyer Down Payment Assistance: Qualified Buyers will receive down payment assistance based upon
individual needs. Fifteen properties will be sold to Buyers with less than 80 percent of AMI and fourteen
properties will be sold to Buyers with less than 120 percent of AMI.
Affordability Period for Home Buyer: The homebuyer will be awarded a second mortgage on the
property based upon the needs of each qualified homebuyer. The second mortgage will come with an
affordability period of 15 years if the subsidy is $20,000 or less and 20 years if the subsidy is $20,001 or
more.
Guarantee: Presidio Capital, LLC guarantees that any home not sold by 12/31/2017 will be repaid in
“balance” (outstanding balance minus any projected developer subsidy) to the County, after the complete
exhaustion of the “sales plan” initiative. On 10/1/2017 any unsold units will be evaluated and determine
the units prices need to be decreased or if an extension beyond 12/31/2017 is necessary to sell all units.
If on 12/31/2017 units still remain unsold the County and Developer have the option to convert the units
to supportive services rental housing units in conjunction with an approved non-profit agency. Finally,
any reprogrammed funds will be utilized at the sole discretion of the County for projects that are eligible
under the CDBG-DR regulations.
The Bureau would like to request approval for the attached recommended CDBG -DR project loan and
authorization to proceed to execute on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to
Page 80 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

further the aforementioned project.
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) provided the County with the CDBG
-DR funds due to the flooding that occurred in April of 2013. The Cook County Board has approved The
Action Plan for the CDBG - DR funds on 3/12/2014 with two Substantial Amendments on 9/10/2014 and
4/1/2015.
This project is being submitted for review by the Housing and Community Development Committee and
then for Board Approval on 5/11/2016. As such, this item will require Board review and approval in the
same meeting on 5/11/2016.

16-2497
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SEIDA PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, LLC CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: Seida Property Management, LLC
Address: 113 W. 159th Street, South Holland, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: South Holland
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 29-21-200-005-0000;
29-21-200-073-0000 and 29-21-200-056-0000

29-21-200-022-0000;

29-21-200-032-0000;

Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution Village of South Holland approved January 4, 2016
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 18 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 30 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: none
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 220 full-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: Not applicable

Page 81 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Proposed use of property: This property leased by a commercial user for auto repair and auto rental.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 82 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

16-2512
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MICHAEL B. STERN/RAINBOW LIGHTING INC. 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Michael B. Stern/Rainbow Lighting, Inc.
Address: 200-220 Fencl Lane, Hillside, Illinois 60162
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Hillside
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 15-17-304-065-0000; 15-17-304-076-0000; and 15-17-304-076-0000;
15-17-304-095-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 15-10
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 14
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 2 full-time, 6 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 11 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 11 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 30
Proposed use of property: Industrial-Warehousing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
Page 83 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

16-2513
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CAPANNARI’S INC. 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Capannari’s Inc.
Address: 701 North Wheeling Road, Mount Prospect, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Mount Prospect
Cook County District: 9
Page 84 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Permanent Index Number: 03-35-200-071-1001
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Mount Prospect Resolution Number 42-15
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 21 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Three (3) full-time, 10 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: # full-time, # part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Two (2) full-time, 35 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10 construction jobs
Proposed use of property:
warehouse and distribution

This property will be used for industrial purpose light production,

Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
Page 85 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

16-1293
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Bi-Weekly Activity Report for Pay Periods 5 and 6
Report Period: Pay Period 5, 2/21/2016-3/5/2016 and Pay Period 6, 3/6/2016 - 3/19/2016
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity Report for the Pay Period listed above

16-2508
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RESOLUTION APPROVING ECONOMIC PACKAGE INCLUDING WAGE
INCREASES AND HEALTHCARE
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and

WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and Cook County Pharmacy Association,
Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale & Department Store Union, AFL-CIO, CLC (RWDSU Local 200)
representing Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians; and
WHEREAS salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the Salary Schedules included
in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between County of Cook and RWDSU Local 200; and
Page 86 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 1.00%
(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all
classifications shall be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all
classifications shall be increased 2.25%
(f) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX
Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

12/1/2015
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate increase
(.50 percent increase on 12/1/2015 and .50 percent
increase on 12/1/2016)

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the economic package including wage increases and healthcare as provided by the Bureau of
Human Resources.

Page 87 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

16-2509
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Other Part(ies): The Board of Trustees of Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois
Request: Approval of an intergovernmental agreement
Goods or Services: Assistance in the development and implementation of various telecommunications
and networking initiatives
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 4/15/2016 - 11/30/2019
Fiscal Impact: Total agreement authority: $500,000.00 - FY 2016: $78,000.00, FY 2017: $192,000.00,
FY 2018: $192,000.00, FY 2019: $38,000.00
Accounts: 499-260
Summary: The Bureau of Technology (BOT) respectfully requests approval of an intergovernmental
agreement with the Board of Trustees of Northern Illinois University (NIU) to provide the County with
assistance in the development and implementation of mutually beneficial technology related initiatives
with regional partners such as the State of Illinois, the City of Chicago, and the South Suburban Mayors
and Managers Association. The County has previously received critical assistance from NIU under a
prior agreement that facilitated the expansion of the County’s broadband footprint and Wide Area
Network.
The proposed agreement provides improved terms for the County and will allow BOT to leverage NIU
expertise to explore network asset monetization under the County’s Asset Marketing Program as well as
draft future broadband and networking intergovernmental agreements with regional partners.

16-2522
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: System Solutions, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Page 88 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

Good(s) or Service(s): Standard Specification Hardware (Lot A) and Hardware Maintenance (Lot C)
for Various Cook County Agencies
Current Contract Period: 7/1/2012 - 6/30/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2017 for Lot A and Lot C
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $13,189,457.10 for Lot A; $3,054,976.56 for Lot C
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/5/2012, $13,189,457.10 for Lot A; $1,424,976.56 for
Lot C
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/8/2014, $1,630,000.00 for Lot C
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/6/2015, 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2016
This Increase Requested: $840,000.00 for Lot C
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2016 $840,000.00 for Lot C

Accounts: 499-441
Contract Number(s): 11-84-167A & C
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: In 2012, this Board approved contracts 11-84-167A and 11-84-167C with System Solutions,
Inc. The contracts were obtained through a competitive reverse auction for three separate Lots. Lot A
allows County agencies to procure specification hardware while Lot C provides as-needed maintenance
and repair of Countywide computer hardware equipment.
In 2014, this Board approved an amendment to Lot C to address replacement part needs and shore up
cost management mechanisms in the agreement.
The Bureau of Technology now respectfully requests Board approval of a one (1) year contract remewa1;
to Lot A and Lot C, and an increase to Lot C to provide necessary Countywide services. The Office of
the Chief Procurement Officer is working with the Bureau of Technology to complete an ongoing
Request for Proposal process.

Page 89 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

RECORDER OF DEEDS

16-2478
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, Recorder of Deeds
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Recorder of Deeds
Vendor: Fidlar Technologies, Inc., Davenport, Iowa
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Property Fraud Alert Software License
Current Contract Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2015
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $38,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/12/2014, $19,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/10/2015, $19,000.00, 12/1/2014 11/30/2015
This Increase Requested: $19,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2016 $19,000.00

Accounts: 527-260
Contract Number(s): 1441-13347
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology concurs
Summary: This increase and extension will allow Fidlar Technologies, Inc. to continue to provide the
software for the Recorder of Deeds’ Property Fraud Alert service. This service notifies County residents
of any document(s) being recorded against their property to determine if it is fraudulent in nature. This
program now protects over 40,000 County residents, with plans to increase over the coming year.
This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
Page 90 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS

16-2182
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s):

Sheriff’s Department of Corrections

Vendor: Uniforms Manufacturing, Inc., Scottsdale, Arizona
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Inmate Uniforms
Contract Value: $1,217,116.95
Contract period: 4/20/2016 - 4/19/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016: $405,705.65; FY 2017: $405,705.65; and FY2018:
$405,705.65
Accounts: 239-320
Contract Number(s): 1511-15088
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Bids were solicited for the purchase of uniforms for the inmates of the Department
of Corrections. Uniforms Manufacturing, Inc., was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

Page 91 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 12, 2016
16-2150 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Jolen Electric Company Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
16-2205 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Little Beans Café Class 7A Property Tax Incentive Request
16-2290 PROPOSED ORDINANCE Establishing The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation
For Job Creation, Workforce Development, Entrepreneurship, Community Revitalization, and Industrial
Development
___________
LABOR COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 12, 2016
16-2178
PROPOSED
RESOLUTION
APPROVING
COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING
AGREEMENTS American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees Council 31 (AFSCME)
representing support staff in the Office of the Public Defender (AFSCME 3696); assistant public defenders
(AFSCME 3315); caseworkers, interpreters and investigative personnel in the Offices of the Public
Defender, Medical Examiner and Adoption and Child Custody Advocacy (AFSCME 1767); and Cook
County Assessor’s staff (AFSCME 3835)
16-2180 PROPOSED RESOLUTION APPROVING WAGE INCREASES Chicago Newspaper Guild
representing Certified Per Diem Court Interpreters II’s (PDM II)
___________
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 12, 2016
16-2333 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Calling upon the City of Chicago to rescind the $0.05 Bottled
Water Tax
___________
TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
16-0899 PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY) Clarity Partners, LLC,
Chicago, Illinois
___________

Page 92 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

WORKFORCE, HOUSING & COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
16-1343 PROPOSED ORDINANCE authorizing the initiation and administration of a Down Payment
Assistance Program for Cook County home buyers
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
16-2458 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS COOK COUNTY CLERK regular meeting held on
Wednesday, 3/2/2016.
___________
FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
SUBROGATION RECOVERIES
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
16-1544 REVENUE REPORT Period Ended 2/29/2016
16-1481 REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System Monthly Report
___________
ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
16-2053 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS SU 15-11
15-2563 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS SU 14-06 & V 14-55
16-2109 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS V 13-14
16-2292 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Vault Toilets
16-1664 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Creation of Crane Operators Registration
Requirement
___________
Page 93 of 94

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 13, 2016

ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 13, 2016
16-1417 PROPOSED CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS) Capitol Cement Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois 171st Street to 159th Street in the City of
Harvey
16-1552 PROPOSED CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS) Capitol Cement Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois 151st Street; Vincennes Ave. to Second
Avenue in the Village of Phoenix and City of Harvey

Page 94 of 94

 