 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Human Relations Committee

Wednesday, July 29, 2015 10:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey, Sims and
Steele (6)
Absent: Commissioner Suffredin (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Boykin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2. Mary Harts?elds, Warriors on the Watch Inc.
3. Anthony Lowery, Director, Policy and Advocacy Safer Foundation

COMMITTEE MINUTES

1 5-4645
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/30/2015

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Committee Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey,? Sims and
Steele (6)
Absent: Commissioner Suffredin (1)
15?4212

Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COUNTY ECONOMIC INCENTIVES

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human Relations,
Article

H, Human Rights, Section 42?42 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Section 42-42. County economic incentives.





(C)



Prohibition. No person or entity who is the bene?ciary of an economic incentive provided by Cook County
("County") shall engage in unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment against any individual in the tertns or
conditions of employment. credit. public accommodations. housing. or provision at" facilities. services or
programs. "Sexual harassment" has such meaning as is ascribed to it in other sections ofthis article.

Provisions of'tffonn-tv Economic incentive .Ilgt'eemems. The Cool; County Bureau of Economic lJeyelopment.
and all other department heads. as necessary and authorized. shall include a provision in all County economic
incentive agreements that details the County?s policies with respect to unlawful discrimination and sexual
harassment. as embodied in this article. and that requires every recipient of a County?provided economic
incentive to certify its compliance with these policies and its agreement to abide by such policies as a part of the
recipient?s obligations under the incentive agreement. All County economic incentive agteements shall 
provide that if any recipient of an economic development incentive from County is found to have violated any
provision of this article. or Furnished false or misleading information in any investigation. hearing. or inquiry
held pursuant to this atticle. that incentive will as a result be subject to immediate termination.

and Disqualification. Any person or entity applying to receive an economic incentive from or
otherwise bene?t from an economic incentive provided by Cook County shall be required to disclose whether
that person or entity has been Found guilty of or liable for. or settled a claim related to a charge of unlawful
discrimination or sexual harassment. if. as a result ol?the appl icant?s compliance with the disclosure requirement.
it is shown that the applicant has been lound guilty of or liable I'or. or settled a claim related to a charge of
unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment. both the applicant and the application shall be disquali?ed. and
the applicant shall be prospectively barred front receiving or bene?tting from an economic incentive provided

by Cook County.

Post-.4worn? [l the recipient or bene?ciagy of an economic incentive provided by Cook County fails
to properly comply with the disclosure requirement set forth in Section 42-42tcl. and is subsequently learned to
have been found guilty of or liable for. or settled a claim related to a charge ofunlawl?ul discrimination or sexual
harassment. the economic incentive to which that person or entity is a party shall be immediately tenninated.
and the recipient or bene?ciary ofthat economic incentive shall be required to repay the sum total of incentive
proceeds and or bene?ts received to date.

 

Sec. 42-421 j4_3. - Effective date. This article shall take effect 60 days after becoming law.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.

Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Human Relations Committee

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this

Ordinance Amendment be recommended for receiving and ?ling. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes 

Absent:

Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey, Sims and
Steele (6)

Commissioner Suffredin (1)

Page 2 0f 9

15-4214
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

Cook County Human Rights Ordinance

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 Human Relation,

Article II
Human Rights, Sec. 42-35 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 42-35 Employmen_t



Criminal Record 0r Criminal History

1) Except as otherwise provided in section no Employer, agent of an employer or employment
agency shall inquire about, consider. or require disclosure of the criminal record or criminal history of an
Employee when considering an application for employment until the Employee has been determined
quali?ed for the position and noti?ed that he or she has been selected for an interview by the Employer or
Employment Agency or. ifthere is not an interyiew. until alter a conditional offer of employment is made
to the Employee by the Employer or Employment agency.

2) The requirements set forth in section 1) do not apply to:

a. Employers that are subiect to the Illinois Job Opportunities for Qualified Applicants Act. 820
75!] et seq., or agents of Employers or Employment agencies seeking quali?ed Employees
on behalf of such an Employer;

b. Positions for which a satisfactory criminal background is an established bona fide occupational
requirement of a particular position or a particular group ot?employees:

0. Positions for which federal or state law requires an Employer to exclude Employees witlrcertain
criminal convictions,

d. Positions for which a standard ?delity bond or an equivalent bond is required and an
Employee?s conyiction of one or more specified criminal offenses would disqualify the

applicant from obtaining such a bond;

e. Positions for which licensurc underthe Emergency Medical Seryices (EMS) Systems Act. Ell}
,?itll I et seq is required.

3) The requirements set forth in section i do not prohibit an Employer from notifying Employees
in writing of the specific offenses that will disqualify an applicant from employment in a particular

4) if the County of Cook. subsequent to interviewing or extending a conditional Offer of' employment to an
Employee determines that the Employee has a criminal conviction. that fact alone shall not automatically
disqualify the Employee from employment. The Employer. prior to makinaa decision. should consider the

following factors:

Page 3 of 9

Ft.

The nature ofthe Employee's speci?c olTense or offenses;

The nature of the Employee?s sentencing;

The Employee?s number of convictions:

The length ol'time that has passed following the Employee?s most recent conviction:
The relationship between the Employee?s crimes and the nature of the relevant position;
The age of the Employee at the time of the most recent conviction:

Any eyiclence of rehabilitation. including but not limited to whether the Employee has
completed a treatment or counseling program:

The extent to which the Employee has been open. honest. and cooperative in the examination of
his or her background; and

Any other information which the Employetgleems relevant to the Employee's suitability for the
position.

5) If an employer makes a decision not to hire an Employee based in whole or in pan on the Employee?s
criminal history or record. the employer. agent of the Employer or Employment Agency shall inform

the Employee of the same at the time he or she is informed of the Employer?s decision not to hire.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE ID 15-4214

Sponsored by; ROBERT STEELE, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P.
DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS and LARRY SUFFREDIN,

County Commissioners

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 Human Relation, Article II
Human Rights, Sec. 42-35 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 42-35 Employment



Criminal Record 0r Criminal History

1) Except as otherwise provided in section 42-35(hl. no Employer. agent oi" an Employer or Employment
agency shall inquire about. consider. or require disclosure of the criminal record or criminal history of an
[Employee when considering an application for employment until the Employee has been determined
qualified for the position and noti?ed that he or she has been selected for an interview by the Employer or
Employment agency or. if there is not an interview. until a?er a conditional o?l'ler ol'employtnent is made
to the Employee by the Employer or Employment agency.

Page 4 of 9

2)

3)

4)

5)

The requirements set forth in section do not apply to:

a. Employers that are subiect to the Illinois Job Opportunities for Quali?ed Applicants Act. 820 ILCS
75f I et seq- or agents of Employers or Employment agencies seeking qualilied Employees on
behalf of such an Employem

b. Positions for which a satisfactory criminal background is an established hona tide occupational
requirement ol?a particular position or for a particular group of employees;

c. Positions for which liedcral or state law requires an Employer to exclude Employees with certain
criminal convictions;

d. Positions for which a standard ?delity bond or an equivalent bond is required and an Employee?s
conviction ot?onc or more speci?ed criminal offenses would disqualify the applicant from obtaining

such a bond;

e. Positions for which licensure under the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems Act. 210
ILCS 50/1 et seq is required.

The requirements set forth in section do not prohibit an Employer from noti'l'ying
Employees in writing ol'the speci?c offenses that will disqualify an applicant from employment in a

particular position.

If an Employer makes a decision not to hire an Employee based in whole or in part on the Employee?s
criminal history or record. the Employer. agent ot?the Employer or Employment agency shall inform
the Employee of the same at the time he or she is informed of the Employer?s decision not to hire.

Cook County as an Employer: the County of Cook. subsequent to interviewing or extendinga
conditional offer of employment to an Employee determines that the Employee has a criminal

conviction. that fact alone shall not automatically disqualify the Employee from employment. The
Employer. prior to malting a decision. should consider the following factors:

a. The nature of the Employee?s speci?c offense or offenses;
b. The nature of the Employee?s sentencing;
c. The number of the Employee?s convictions;

d. The length oftime that has passed lollowing the Employee?s most recent conviction:
Page 5 of 9

The relationship between the Employee?s crimes and the nature ot'the relevant position:



f. The age of the Emnlovee at the time of the most recent conviction;

g. Anv evidence of rehabilitation. incindinu but not limited to whether the Emnlovee has completed
a treatment or counseling program;

h. The extent to which the Employee has been open. honest. and cooperative inthe examination of
his or her background; and

 

i. Any other which the Conntv ol?Cook deems relevant to the Emplovee?s suitabilitv for
the position.



Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, that this Ordinance
Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey, Sims and
Steele (6)
Absent: Commissioner Suffredin (1)

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO FILE ID 15-4214 AS SUBSTITUTED
Human Relations Committee 7/29/2015

Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P.
DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Commissioners

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 Human Relation, Article II
Human Rights, Sec. 42-35 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 42-35 Emplovment



Page 6 of 9

 Criminal Record 0r Criminal History

1) Except as otherwise provided in section no Employer, agent of an Employer or Employment

2)

3)

agency shall inquire about. consider. or require disclosure of the criminal record or criminal history of
an Employee when considering an application for employment until the Employee has been determined
quali?ed for the position and noti?ed that he or she has been selected for an interview by the Employer
or Employment agency or, i't'there is not an interview until after a conditional oft'cr ot?employmeut is

made to the Employee by the Employer or Employment agency.

The requirements set forth in section do not apply to:

Employers that are suhiect to the Illinois .lob Opportunities for Quali?ed Applicants Act. 320 
752? I et seq.. or agents of Employers or Employment agencies seeking quali?ed Employees on
behalf of such an Employep;

Positions for which a satisfactory criminal background is an established hona tide occupational
requirement ol'a particular position or for a particular group of employees;

Positions for which federal or state law requires an Employer to exclude Employees with certain
criminal convictions;

Positions for which a standard ?delity bond or an equivalent bond is required and an Employee?s
conviction of one or more speci?ed criminal offenses would disquali iv the applicant From obtaining
such a bond;

Positions for which licensure under the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems Act, 210
ILCS 50/1 et seq is required.

f. Positions within any municipal law enforceme? or investigative which requires a
criminal background investigation including without limitation the Cook County Sheriff.

The requirements set forth in section do not prohibit an Employer From notifying
Employees in writing ot'the speci?c that will disqualify an applicant from employment in a

particular position.

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 9

5) Cook County as an Employer: If the County of Cook, subsequent to. interviewing or extending;
conditional offer of employment to an Employee determines that the Employee has a criminal
conviction. that [act alone shall not automatically disoualil'y the Employee from employment. The
Employer. prior to making a decision. should consider the following factors:

a. The nature of the Employee?s speci?c offense or offenses;

b. The nature of the Employee?s sentencing;

c. The number of the Employee?s convictiong

d. The length oftime that has passed following the Employee?s most recent conviction:

e. The relationship between the Employee?s crimes and the nature of the relevant position;
f. The age of the Employee at the time of the most recent conviction

g. Any evidence of rehabilitation. including but not limited to whether the Employee has completed
a treatment or counseling program;

h. The extent to which the Employee has been open. honest. and cooperative in the examination of
his or her background; and

i. Any other information which the County of Cook deems relevant to the Employee?s suitability for
the position.


Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, that this

Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted and amended. The motion carried by the following

vote:

Ayes: Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey, Sims and
Steele (6)
Absent: Suffredin (1)

Page 8 of 9

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to adjourn the

meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Boykin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Fritchey, Sims and
Steele (6)

Absent: Suffredin (1)

Respectfully submitted,

 

 

Chairman Wotan!

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 9 of 9

