MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
FEBRUARY 16, 1994
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
A Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on February 16,
1994. The meeting was held in the Lincoln Room of the Bismark Hotel, 171 West
Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Regular Meeting was called pursuant to
previous Board action and notice was duly and timely given to each Board Member
and the public in conformity with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman;
and Members William B. Browder and Robert F. Vickrey. Member Gayl S. Pyatt was
present via conference telephone. Member J. William Roberts was absent due to a
scheduling conflict. Additionally, Interim Administrator Joseph F. Mc Quaid and
Chief Legal Counsel Donna B. More; the media and general public were in
attendance.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Johnson at 10:13 A.M.
The Chairman first acknowledged the presence of Director Raymond Wagner,
Illinois Department of Revenue.
The first order of business concerned the approval of minutes.
Mr. Vickrey moved the minutes of January 18, 1994 be approved as
submitted. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned a clarification of the minutes of
December 2, 1993. Chairman Johnson stated that a question of Board intent had
arisen with respect to the approval of Pratt Management Limited as a supplier.
The Chairman clarified that the approval of the supplier's license also included
the corporate re-structuring sought by the applicant. There being no objection,
the Chairman ordered the clarification be added to the minutes of February 16,
1994.
The next order of business concerned the Administrator's Report.
Chair recognized Interim Administrator Mc Quaid.

The

Mr. Mc Quaid reported that 91% of cruises scheduled for January, 1994 were
canceled due to weather conditions. He also reported that with respect to
monitoring underage patrons seeking entry to casinos, a total of 1,253,000
patrons had attended scheduled cruises. Of that total, approximately 1,500
(0.11%) persons were turned away because lack of identification or
identification that indicated the person was under the age of 21.
The next item of business concerned an update from Elgin Riverboat
Resorts.
Mr. David Belding appeared on behalf of the applicant along with Ms. Penny
Jackson and Mr. Greg Solomon. Mr. Belding told the Board that construction of a
shipyard alongside the Fox River was on-going and that the ship builder had
commenced laying of the vessel hull. He reported that relocation of existing
power lines was in process and would be completed by March, 1994. Mr. Belding

 reported that dredging permits were expected from the Army Corps of Engineers in
the near future. Ms. Jackson reported that some initial hiring would occur in
March, 1994. Mr. Belding stated that operations were expected to commence in
mid-November, 1994, one month later than previously reported.
The next order of business concerned reports from owner licensees.
Chairman first recognized Alton Gaming Company.

The

Mr. J. Thomas Long appeared on behalf of the licensee. He requested Board
approval for the licensee to seek a $50 million loan for interim financing. He
stated the loan would be retired later in 1994 from proceeds received from a
$150-200 million bond offering which would also be used to finance additional
projects. He requested the bond offering be placed on the March, 1994 agenda
for Board action. He noted that the loan would be secured by Alton Gaming
Company. The Chairman noted the Board had received an analysis from Duff and
Phelps on the proposal and noted that debt to equity ratios would remain above
1:1.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the refinancing plan as submitted to the Board by
Argosy Gaming Company, which provides that all borrowing will be secured by the
assets of Argosy Gaming Company and guaranteed by Alton Gaming Company, be
approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for discussion.
Ms. Pyatt asked whether it was the intent of the licensee to retire the
loan prior to September, 1994. Mr. Long responded that with Board approval of a
long term refinancing proposal in March, the loan would be retired long before
September, 1994.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next request of Argosy Company concerned approval of new games.
Mr. Mc Quaid reported that staff reviewed the requested games, "Caribbean
Stud Poker" and "Twenty-one Super Bucks". He recommended approval.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the games "Caribbean Stud Poker" and "Twenty-one
Super Bucks" be approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Long next requested the Board's determination of whether newly
appointed or elected members of a licensee's Board of Directors could assume
their position prior to submitting a Personal Disclosure Form 1 or after
submission but prior to action by the Gaming Board. Joseph Walsh, an attorney
from Winston & Strawn appeared on behalf of Argosy Gaming Company. Michael
Ficaro, representing multiple licensees and Timothy Wilmott, representing
Harrah's Illinois Corporation, also appeared. The witnesses urged the Board to
adopt a policy allowing persons to begin service upon submission of a Personal
Disclosure Form 1. Chief Counsel More, on behalf of staff, recommended that
persons be allowed to serve pending investigation of submitted Personal
Disclosure Form 1 applications. She also presented policy considerations
concerning parent entities that are publicly traded corporations. Member
Browder asked what would happen if the Board determined that a member of a Board
of Directors was deemed to be unsuitable for licensing. The Chairman responded,

 and the witnesses concurred, that the owner's license would be in jeopardy
unless the licensee removed that person from the Board of Directors. It was
noted that the unsuitable person could be removed for cause under most state
statutes. Mr. Ficaro requested time to submit further analysis to staff.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Illinois Gaming Board not require a Form 1
application be approved prior to a member of a Board of Directors in a publicly
traded company being elected to the Board of Directors of that publicly traded
company. Mr. Browder seconded the motion.
The motion was withdrawn, without objection. Staff was directed to draft
a motion to better reflect the discussion and issues presented.
The Chairman next recognized Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation.
Mr. Thomas Moore, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
requested approval of the Board for Par-a-dice to purchase the 2.08% ownership
stock of investor Arnold Millan. Mr. Moore stated that the purchase of stock
would be in the form of a treasury stock purchase.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the purchase of ownership interest, in the form of
treasury stock, from Arnold Milan by Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation be approved.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Moore
sell Par-a-dice
Missouri Gaming
raised a number
matter, without

next requested approval for Par-a-dice Gaming Corporation to
Riverboat Casino to Argosy Gaming Corporation for use by
Company, a subsidiary of Argosy. It was noted that staff had
of questions concerning the request. The Chairman deferred the
objection.

The Chairman next recognized Jo Daviess Riverboat Joint Venture, (JDRV).
Mr. David Filken, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. He
requested leave of the Board to withdraw a supplier's license application for
Leonard Ring. Chairman Johnson noted that since the January, 1994 meeting, when
the Board first heard the request for approval of the application, Mr. Ring had
died, but that the licensee had already completed the transfer of an asset to
Mr. Ring in December, 1992 without Board approval. Mr. Filken concurred that
the transfer of land to Mr. Ring had occurred. Mr. Ring had then granted an
easement to JDRV pending Board approval of a supplier's application allowing Mr.
Ring to lease the property to JDRV. It was noted that the easement agreement
contained an automatic reversion of the property to JDRV in September, 1993, but
Mr. Filken acknowledged that, in fact, the land had not reverted back to JDRV.
The Chairman stated that the question before the Board was whether a licensee
was authorized to transfer major assets without approval. The Chairman
instructed staff to review Rule 3000.230 and propose any amendments necessary to
clarify the disposing of assets by a licensee. The Chairman recognized Reverend
Tom Grey of Galena. Rev. Grey charged that JDRV entered into the sale of
an ®ÿÿ
ªª
Kè-@ ..Êß
@ !perty. He submitted a recent Internal
Revenue Service document, dated February 1, 1994, that purportedly showed that
JDRV was entitled to a tax write-off on the transaction. The matter was
deferred, without objection.
The Chairman next recognized Rock Island Boatworks.

 Mr. Jack Desatnick, Chief Financial Officer, and Michael Ficaro, attorney,
appeared on behalf of the licensee along with officials of Boatman's Bank of
Rock Island, Illinois. Mr. Desatnick requested approval of a refinancing plan
previously submitted. The request involved the borrowing of $12 million from
Boatman's Bank. The proceeds of the loan would retire $3.5 million of debt of
Rock Island Boatworks and $8.75 million would be used for loans to other
entities owned by D. James Jumer. It was noted that the first mortgage on
Casino Rock Island would total $12 million. The Chairman stated that he was
concerned about approving the refinancing licensees in a manner that did not
directly aid Illinois riverboat licensees. Member Vickrey stated that the Board
should approve the request due to Mr. Jumer's reputation as a businessman in the
state.
Mr. Vickrey moved the requested refinancing for Rock Island Boatworks be
approved, as submitted. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called
for the yeas and nays by oral roll call. The Members responded to wit:
MR.
MS.
MR.
MR.

BROWDER
PYATT
VICKREY
CHAIRMAN

'AYE'
'NAY'
'AYE'
'NAY'

The motion failed.
Mr. Ficaro requested leave of the Board for reconsideration of the request
at the March, 1994 regular meeting. There being no objection, leave was
granted.
The Chairman next recognized Empress River Casino Corporation.
Mr. Kevin Larson, President, and Mr. Allen Rich, attorney, appeared on
behalf of the licensee. Mr. Larson requested approval of a financing proposal.
The Chairman asked a number of questions detailing the proposal. The licensee
proposed to enter into $150 million of debt which included a distribution of $50
million to the shareholders of Empress River Casino Corporation. It was noted
that the remainder of the funds would be used in a proposed project located in
Hammond, Indiana. The Chairman expressed concern that the proposal replaced
total cash equity of the licensee with $150 million in debt and that he believed
that equity of Illinois assets should not be solely used to create equity in out
of state projects. Mr. Larson stated that the entity owning the proposed
Hammond project had made a $4 million equity contribution but that he was unsure
of the total equity that would be contributed. He also stated that it was
expected that applications for a license in Hammond, Indiana would be reviewed
in late Fall of 1994. Mr. Rich told the Board that the financing would be
repaid in eight years and would be guaranteed by both the Illinois and Indiana
entities, which were S-Corporations.
Mr. Vickrey referenced the report received from Duff & Phelps concerning
the proposal and urged the Board to adhere to the conclusions of the report.
The Chairman recognized Reverend Tom Grey of Galena, Illinois. Rev. Grey
urged the Board not to approve the proposal because the licensee was simply
moving closer to existing customers and was removing cash from Illinois to
expand gambling in other states.

 Mr. Vickrey moved that the financing proposal submitted by Empress River
Casino Corporation be approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for discussion.
Chairman Johnson urged the Board not to approve the motion pending further
discussion by staff and Empress officials. He asked Mr. Larson if deferring the
matter was objectionable. Mr. Larson responded that the proposal had been
originally submitted to staff in October, 1993 and that timing of taking the
offer to market was of the essence.
Mr. Vickrey stated that in recognition that there would be a license
operating in Indiana and that he believed it important that an Illinois business
entity hold the license.
Mr. Vickrey requested consideration of the motion be postponed until after
further discussion in Closed Session.
With leave of the body, consideration was postponed.
The second request of Empress River Casino Corporation to merge the assets
of River Casino Corporation into Empress River Casino Corporation was deferred.
The Chairman next recognized Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership.
Mr. Timothy Wilmott, General Manager, and Mr. George Kovac, attorney,
appeared on behalf of the licensee. Mr. Kovac requested approval of a
refinancing proposal. Mr. Kovac noted that no borrowing would occur under the
proposal. The proposal would increase capital contributions of the partners,
Harrah's Illinois Corporation and John Q. Hammonds. Mr. Vickrey questioned
whether Harrah's Illinois had been paying the bills of Mr. Hammonds. Mr. Kovac
stated that obligations had already been incurred that were paid by Harrah's in
anticipation of Mr. Hammonds securing a loan to contribute his portion.
Mr. Browder moved that the proposed additional financing plan submitted by
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership be approved. Mr. Vickrey seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Casino Queen, Incorporated.
Mr. John Janicik, attorney, appeared on behalf of the licensee. Mr.
Janicik reviewed a previous Board appearance wherein a question had been raised
regarding Terminal Railroad and whether the leasing of real property by Terminal
Railroad to Casino Queen, Inc. required Terminal Railroad to secure a Supplier's
License. Mr. Janicik told the Board that based upon research conducted,
Terminal Railroad should not be required to obtain a supplier's license because
Terminal Railroad does not provide gaming equipment or supplies. He noted that
Terminal Railroad leased land to Casino Queen, Incorporated so that Casino Queen
could gain access to their docksite and that the docksite itself was not owned
by Terminal Railroad. On behalf of staff, Mr. Mc Quaid stated that the land in
question could be considered as the docksite of Casino Queen and could therefor
require that Terminal Railroad secure a supplier's license. Mr. Mc Quaid
recommended, however, the Board consider application of Rule 3000.260 and waive
the requirements for a license.

 Mr. Vickrey moved that pursuant to Rule 3000.260, the Board waive the
supplier's license requirement for Terminal Railroad. Mr. Browder seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for discussion.
Mr. Vickrey noted that the land on which the docksite for Casino Queen,
Incorporated was located was regulated by other state and federal agencies and
that the waiver was in the best interests of the public and the gaming industry.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chairman next recognized Hollywood Casino Corporation.
Mr. Richard Knight, Chief Operating Officer, appeared on behalf of the
licensee. He told the Board that during the month of January and through
February 15, 1994, no cruises had occurred due to ice. Dredging and power line
relocation was proceeding as scheduled. Hollywood was considering construction
of a larger vessel to replace one of the existing vessels. Mr. Knight discussed
the implementation of a twenty-four hour cruise schedule and requested
consideration of the revised cruise schedule at the March, 1994 regular meeting.
Mr. Vickrey asked questions concerning ancillary economic development in
Aurora, Illinois. Mr. Knight told the Board that a new restaurant and bar had
opened with two additional restaurants scheduled to open in the near future.
Mr. Vickrey requested the staff to invite local officials to attend future
Board meetings to update the Board on the impact of riverboat gambling in the
community.
The next order of business concerned Supplier's License applications.
Mr. David Filken requested leave of the Board to withdraw the supplier's
license application of Leonard M. Ring.
Without objection, leave was granted.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the application for a supplier's license received
from Progressive Games, Inc. be approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The
Chairman called for discussion. William J. Kunkle, Jr., attorney, appeared on
behalf of the applicant to respond to questions. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved the supplier's license of Green Duck, Inc. be renewed.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion. It was noted that the renewal included
approval for acquisition of an unnamed company. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The Chief Counsel sought recognition to inform the Board that in granting
leave to withdraw an application for a supplier's license a record vote of the
Board was required. The Chairman deferred the vote granting leave to Leonard M.
Ring to withdraw his application.

 Mr. Browder moved that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 100,
Section 120/2 (g), (h) and (k) that the Board retire to Closed Session to
consider the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Reports concerning applicants for occupational
Recommendations of the Administrative Law Judge
Investigatory Matters
Confidential Financial Information of Licensees
Personnel Matters.

Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.

licenses

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was unanimously approved by voice vote and the Board retired to
Closed Session at 12:48 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened in Open Session at 4:10 P.M.
Chairman Johnson and Members Browder and Vickrey were in attendance; Member
Pyatt was in attendance via telephone.
The first order of business concerned consideration of a motion previously
made by Mr. Vickrey to approve the financing proposal submitted by Empress River
Casino Corporation. The Chairman recognized Mr. Kevin Larson.
Mr. Larson offered an alternative proposal that would create a debt
offering of $150 and of the originally proposed $50 million for shareholder
distribution, those amounts would be distributed from time to time, only to the
extent that such distributions would not reduce the stockholder's equity
interest below $25 million. Mr. Larson noted that the $25 million was twice the
original equity investment of the stockholders. It was noted that financial
advisors had strongly recommended that the financing structure be moved from the
offering entity to the Illinois entity because of available resources.
Mr. Vickrey offered a substitute motion to approve the amended financing
proposal submitted by Empress River Casino Corporation. Mr. Browder seconded
the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved 3-1 by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the request of Empress River Casino to merge River
Casino Corporation into Empress River Casino Corporation be approved. Mr.
Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called discussion.
The Chairman stated he fully supported the motion because it added assets
to a licensee.
The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
With leave of the body, the next order of business concerned
reconsideration of previous Board action. The Chairman recognized Ms. Pyatt.
Ms. Pyatt, having voted on the prevailing side, moved to reconsider the
vote by which the request for refinancing of Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. failed.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.

 The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the motion was
reconsidered.
On the motion, the Chairman called for the yeas and nays to approve the
refinancing proposal submitted by Rock Island Boatworks, Inc.
The motion was approved 3-1.
The next order of business concerned occupational licensing.
Mr. Vickrey moved the applications for Occupational Licenses, Level 1 be
approved for the following individuals:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

James Carter
Rodney Vens
Denise Inman-Schaffer
Harry Ruggeroli
Donald Wren
Douglas Patteson

Mr. Browder seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board adopt the staff report and
recommendations with respect to applications received for Occupational Licenses,
Levels 2 & 3 and that the applications be approved. It was noted the motion
included 153 level 2 applications and 292 level 3 applications. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Board adopt the staff report and
recommendations with respect to applications received for Occupational Licenses,
Levels 2 & 3 and that the applications be denied. It was noted the motion
included 2 level 2 and 12 level 3 applications. Mr. Browder seconded the
motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Administrative Law Judge
recommendations.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the request for leave of the Board received from
Robert Elmore to reapply for occupational licensing within one year of denial be
approved. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas
and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the request for leave of the Board received from
David Pennell to reapply for occupational licensing within one year of denial be
denied. Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and
nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.

 Mr. Vickrey moved that the request for leave of the Board received from
David Cohen to withdraw his request for administrative hearing and to reapply
for occupational licensing within one year of denial be approved. Mr. Browder
seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the request for leave of the Board received from
Nicholas Basile to withdraw his request for administrative hearing be denied.
Mr. Browder seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned a report on the Closed Session. The
Chairman stated that the Board had received reports from staff regarding pending
investigations.
The next order of business concerned Boards of Directors.
offered the following motion in writing:

Mr. Vickrey

"Mr. Chairman, I move that:
1.
All members of the Boards of Directors of an entity with a finding
of preliminary suitability or holder of an owner's license must submit Personal
Disclosure Form 1 and be approved by the Illinois Gaming Board and that the
Illinois Gaming Board requires all members of Boards of Directors of publicly
traded parent corporations of an entity with a finding of preliminary
suitability or of the holder of an owner's license submit Personal Disclosure
Form 1 and be approved by the Illinois Gaming Board; and,
2.
Notwithstanding the disclosure and approval requirements of the
Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act, and Illinois Gaming Board Rules for investors,
all persons covered in number one may begin actively serving on the Boards of
Directors prior to the filing of the Personal Disclosure Form 1 and the approval
of the Illinois Gaming Board. All Personal Disclosure Form 1 must be submitted
within thirty (30) days of election to the Board."
Mr. Browder seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the yeas and

nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business concerned Old Business.
The Chairman stated that the search for an Administrator for the Gaming
Board was continuing.
The Chairman next reviewed a proposed change in the structure of Board
meetings. Under the proposal, which had been first discussed at the January,
1994 regular meeting, the Board would convene at its regularly scheduled time
and retire immediately to Closed Session returning to Open Session in the
afternoon. The Chairman explained that such a structure would be a convenience
to the public who wished to attend Board meetings. The Chairman noted that no
comments had been received and that Board members had generally been supportive
and that no objections had been raised. The Chairman announced that beginning

 with the March, 1994 regular meeting that the Board would observe that meeting
structure.
Mr. Browder moved that the request for leave received on behalf of Leonard
Ring to withdraw his application for a supplier's license be approved. Mr.
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Browder
moved the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion. The Chairman
called for the yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote and the Board adjourned
at 4:59 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,

______________________
James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

 