JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY

“While the Cook County Board of Commissioners makes every
attempt to keep the record of its proceedings up to date with
current law and policies, the Board does not guarantee the
accuracy, legality, reliability or content of any of the
information contained herein in journals prior to December 6,
2010, and that the information is provided as submitted to the
Cook County Clerk”.
DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY
JANURARY 5, 2005
(Special Meeting)

JOHN H. STROGER, JR., PRESIDENT
JERRY BUTLER
FORREST CLAYPOOL
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
ELIZABETH ANN DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN
CARL R. HANSEN
ROBERTO MALDONADO

JOSEPH MARIO MORENO
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
ANTHONY J. PERAICA
MIKE QUIGLEY
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
BOBBIE L. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005

Call of the Meeting ..................................................................................................................................464
Call to Order............................................................................................................................................466
Budget Message of the President to the Board of Commissioners .........................................................466
Referral of Budget and Revenue Ordinances to Finance Committee .....................................................477
Proposed Ordinances ..............................................................................................................................477
Adjournment............................................................................................................................................494

i

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY
Meeting of Wednesday, January 5, 2005
2:00 P.M.
Central Standard Time
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING
____________________
Board met pursuant to the following call:
December 28, 2004
The Honorable David Orr
Cook County Clerk
69 West Washington Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Dear Clerk Orr:
Pursuant to the authority vested in me, I hereby call a Special Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County for Wednesday, January 5, 2005, at the hour of 2:00 P.M. in the
County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at
which meeting I will present the Message of the President to the Board of Commissioners
submitting the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2005 and various other revenue ordinances.
Very truly yours,
JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

464

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
December 29, 2004
Honorable President and
Members of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Ladies and Gentlemen:
John H. Stroger, Jr., President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County has directed me to
call a Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday, January 5,
2005, at the hour of 2:00 P.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Message of the President to the Board
of Commissioners submitting the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2005 and various other
revenue ordinances will be presented.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
This is to certify that a copy of the above notice was hand delivered and personally addressed to
each Member of the Board of Cook County Commissioners at their home address and was
deposited in the United States Mail on December 29, 2004.
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Tribune Newspaper on Sunday, January 2,
2005.
LEGAL NOTICE
John H. Stroger, Jr., President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me
to call a Special Meeting of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday,
January 5, 2005, at the hour of 2:00 P.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County
Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Message of the
President to the Board of Cook County Commissioners submitting the Executive Budget for
Fiscal Year 2005 and various other revenue ordinances will be presented.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, County Clerk and Clerk
of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois
January 2, 2005

465

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
OFFICIAL RECORD
President Stroger in the Chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 2:00 P.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Hansen, Maldonado, Murphy,
Quigley, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Stroger-15.

Absent:

Moreno, Peraica-2.
BUDGET MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
to the
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2005

January 5, 2005
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, Chairman Daley, Vice-Chairman Steele, commissioners
and elected officials, citizens and employees.
The introduction of the fiscal 2005 Executive Budget marks the presentation of my tenth budget.
It also marks the presentation of the most challenging budget to date.
We have deliberately taken additional time this year to allow for the most complete revenue
estimates possible and to allow time for my finance team to work with elected officials and
department heads in reducing their requests. This additional time also enabled us to begin to
prudently address public safety issues at the jail that are currently before the federal court.
In the end, this budget will fully fund the obligations of this County to its citizens, its taxpayers
and its employees. As difficult as the decisions were in developing this budget, I am proud to say
that the 2005 budget will not compromise service, public health or public safety. And most
importantly, it will not increase the burden on property owners.
I have remained steadfast in my commitment to provide County services without an increase in
the property tax levy and I am proud to say that I have held to that commitment once again.
These past ten years have been productive for us as a government. We have many
accomplishments that should make all of us very proud. We put the County’s financial house in
order. We held to our pledge to hold the line on property taxes.

466

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Over the past ten years, we have earned the highest bond rating this government has had in more
than twenty-five years. We have made significant investments, hundreds of millions of dollars in
technology. In information systems that enable us to timely distribute property tax collections that
are essential to funding local government. Our information systems are also becoming the
backbone to law enforcement throughout this county. With these systems, municipalities will be
able to provide their residents with the highest level of service technology allows.
In my tenure as President, we successfully entered the new millennium without any glitches. We
have opened 23 ambulatory care clinics, bringing the countywide number to 28, which has saved
millions in what otherwise would have been primary care visits to our emergency rooms. We
have built new divisions and remodeled others in the Department of Corrections to ensure the
safety of our employees and detainees. We built and opened a new hospital to ensure that the
medically indigent and most vulnerable of our residents are afforded the same access and quality
health care most people take for granted.
Through the Community Development Block Grant program, we distributed more than $100
million to municipalities and community groups to support more than 800 different projects. We
passed a new comprehensive land use plan and a new zoning ordinance. We brought clean water
and police patrols to the Village of Ford Heights.
We opened child advocacy centers in many of our courthouses. We have streamlined internal
processes like payroll and accounts payable. We have worked to level the playing field for
minorities and women. It was just ten years ago that we were elected for the first time in single
member districts which has made holding County office more attainable for more people and has
made us more accountable to our constituents.
We moved traffic court into the Daley Center - something many said was impossible - yet has
proven to be a huge success. We have moved more services on-line making interaction for the
taxpayer less cumbersome.
We have been on a solid path for the past ten years. Our financial strategy over this time has
remained a careful balancing of the needs of our constituents with fiscal responsibility. It is my
intention to remain on that path, to continue to provide our citizens with the highest level of
service possible while remaining sensitive to spending their tax dollars.
This is not a budget with new spending or new programs. For the most part, this is a budget
which continues to fund the essential services we provide, most often to those without a voice.
This budget process began in July. Despite my direction that elected officials and department
heads hold the line on spending, when original departmental requests were submitted, we were
faced with a $252 million dollar increase over 2004 levels.
This increase can be attributed to a number of factors...the rising cost of labor...continued
increases in health insurance for employees...requests for new positions...the increase in the costs
of goods and services, particularly pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for our
patients...staffing requests from the Sheriff to address the Duran consent decree...and, as I
cautioned last year, the need to replace one-time revenues that were used to balance the Fiscal
2004 Budget.
Through the diligence of my financial team, we were able to pare back those requested increases
by $179 million leaving us with a shortfall of $73 million.

467

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
That being said, today I present to you a $3.04 billion dollar budget that is balanced and fully
funds the obligations of this County in terms of public safety and public health, as well as the
offices of eleven separately elected officials. These eleven offices, from the Sheriff to the Board
of Review, represent more than one billion dollars of the operating budget.
This budget, for the sixth consecutive year, holds the property tax levy constant at $720 million
dollars, something few other governments can claim and given increases in assessed valuations
and property tax increases by other units of government, reflects my belief that we should not
burden homeowners and businesses with additional real estate taxes.
Given our limited resources, there are no new funds for capital equipment or capital programs.
We have asked offices to operate within existing appropriations and reprioritize in light of the
difficult times we are in.
Other than 283 new positions in the Department of Corrections, there are no other new positions
in this budget.
In fact, this budget eliminates 620 positions, mostly in the offices under the President and underfunds another 1,232 positions spread across the County. The combined savings from these two
actions is in excess of $42 million. This brings the total number of jobs eliminated in ten budgets
to more than 2,000 positions - almost all of which have been in the offices under my direct
authority.
Our personnel costs drive every budget. Year after year after year, we balance the County’s
budget on the backs of the departments under my direct control. I want to once again thank those
departments who have given more than their fair share and are stretching our limited resources.
These departments have sensibly leveraged the investments that we have made in automation and
infrastructure to make their operations more efficient. I also want to thank Treasurer Pappas,
Assessor Houlihan and Recorder Moore whose offices complied with my directive to hold the
line.
Public safety remains the single largest component of the County’s budget. The budget provides
more than one billion dollars in spending for public safety programs and services. Our public
safety system is more than the Cook County Department of Corrections. It is a comprehensive
system that provides both the defense and prosecution in many cases. We are obligated to fund
the judicial system and more than 300 courtrooms. We pay for everything from the judges
healthcare to the court deputies and court clerks. More than a million and a half new cases are
filed annually in our consolidated court system which is the second largest in the nation.
Contained in the 2005 budget is $14 million for the hiring and training of 283 new personnel for
the Department of Corrections in a measured response to the federal consent decree we entered
into in 1982. The consent decree is the result of a federal lawsuit involving overcrowding,
staffing and other conditions at the jail. We have long been concerned with the conditions at the
jail and have always worked closely with both the court and the plaintiffs in attempting to
mitigate the problems.
In fact, we have spent nearly a half billion dollars since 1989 making capital improvements to
directly address issues surrounding the conditions at Cook County Jail. From the construction of
Division XI, to a new central kitchen, to new facilities at Cermak Health Services, we have
invested year after year in the health and safety of the detainees and employees.

468

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Make no mistake, I am committed to resolving the issues surrounding Duran and will do my
absolute best to see that conditions continue to improve, but I also have a responsibility to ensure
that if we encumber additional costs, they are reasonable and necessary.
This administration will continue to work with the Federal Court on the consent decree. We will
develop a multi-year plan that thoughtfully addresses the court’s concerns but we must do it in
light of what taxpayers can afford.
While the Sheriff requested 200 new positions in his 2005 budget request, I am recommending
283 new employees be hired and trained over the next year. To coincide with hiring and training
schedules, a number of the 283 positions are only funded for a portion of next year. Therefore,
this 14 million will easily grow to $19 million in 2006 when we have to fully fund all of these
positions for a full year.
Also contained in this budget is sufficient funding for the personnel study I pledged to conduct of
the entire Sheriff’s Office. In determining appropriate staffing levels, it is important to understand
how corrections officers are deployed. With almost 6,500 employees, a dwindling area of
unincorporated Cook County to patrol, courtrooms that are not used all day, everyday, declining
crime rates, and a variety of alternatives to detention programs like I-bonds, we, as a Board, must
understand how assets are being deployed in a time of limited resources. This Board has always
supported public safety programs, including the operation of the Boot Camp which is a state
responsibility, but it is now time for the public safety arm of this government to support the
taxpayers.
There are more internal methods to improve staffing levels. If the Sheriff would address a daily
absenteeism rate over 10 percent for corrections officers at the Jail, then we might not need to
hire additional officers. If the Sheriff would consider the reallocation of personnel within his
6,500 employees, especially in light of the difficult budget times we are in, then we might not
need to hire additional employees.
Cook County taxpayers spend nearly $22,000 annually per inmate. If the state would take
responsibility for the more than seven hundred parole holds sitting in County jail, our daily
population would be more manageable at current staffing levels. At a minimum, the state should
reimburse the County for housing, feeding and providing health care for their prisoners. Instead,
the state has been closing their facilities and passing these costs along to local Cook County
taxpayers as yet another unfunded mandate. I have shared these concerns with the Governor and
will continue to push for increased funding to assist our taxpayers in paying for what is the state’s
responsibility.
It should also be noted that the Sheriff is the only elected official or department head who has yet
to eliminate his share of the positions vacated as a result of the Early Retirement Incentive.
Because of the consent decree, I did not direct the Budget Department to delete the 112 ERI
positions still due from the Sheriff as I did with all other departments.
This budget provides $896 million for our Bureau of Health Services which experienced a major
change in leadership this past year. Dr. Winship has wasted no time in identifying areas for
improvement and in working with state and federal officials in seeking additional
reimbursements.
This budget includes $41 million in new health revenues through additional public aid

469

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
reimbursements for prescriptions and other revenue management improvements.

470

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Our health care system is one of the largest, most successful and modeled after public health care
systems in the nation. We care for more patients in one day than most hospitals do in a week. We
fill more prescriptions at Stroger Hospital of Cook County each day than 26 Walgreens
pharmacies combined. In fact, prescriptions filled increased from 2.2 million in 2003 to 2.8
million in 2004, an increase of 27%. And the numbers are growing.
This economy has placed more and more people in our care and created an obligation that this
government, under my leadership, will not turn its back on.
This year’s spending plan will provide for the continued operation of Stroger Hospital, Provident
Hospital of Cook County, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, Cermak Health Services of Cook
County, the Department of Public Health, the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center and the
Ambulatory and Community Health Network clinic system.
In 2004, there were more than 1 million outpatient and clinic visits, 227,000 emergency service
visits and nearly 33,000 admissions to our facilities.
At Provident Hospital of Cook County alone, there were nearly 7,000 admissions last year. To
those of you who question our need to keep this hospital open, tell the more than 50,000 people
who used the emergency room last year where you expect them to go and get the services they
need and deserve. Provident remains home to one of the busiest emergency rooms in Chicago.
The ambulatory clinic system was organized in 1995. Last year alone, this system facilitated more
than 650,000 clinic visits at an average cost of just $141 dollars per visit. The numbers at the
Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center are continuing to rise. Last year, CORE logged more than
34,000 patient visits, with estimates for 2005 expected to reach nearly 37,000. Oak Forest
Hospital of Cook County remains a critical component to the Bureau of Health Services.
Emergency room visits have increased from 13,000 just four years ago to more than 25,000 in
2004, while admissions have increased from 2,200 to more than 3,100 in that same time period.
As one of only a few Level 1 Trauma Centers in the area, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
remains the largest of our health facilities. With admissions exceeding 22,800 last year, and more
than 150,000 emergency room visits, this hospital remains a critical service provider to those with
the most acute injuries, as well as the under-insured and medically indigent of this county.
The Cook County Department of Public Health continues to serve our suburban residents with the
highest level of care possible. While taking on the added responsibility of bioterrorism
preparedness, the department continues to provide the core services of disease prevention, health
education and clinic services. Clinic visits are fast approaching the quarter of a million mark.
This budget continues to fund the operations of the Bureau of Administration which includes vital
county services such as highway, the medical examiner’s office, economic development, building
and zoning, and industrial engineers as well as the ongoing efforts of the Bureau of Information
Technology and Automation to equip all County offices with the necessary systems to provide
taxpayers with the most efficient services possible. These bureaus, along with the Bureaus of
Finance and Human Resources, get less attention than others but the services they provide are
vital to our daily operations.
Our services are generally provided to those in a last resort situation. You may not need to use
our services on a daily basis but you feel better knowing they are there should you fall ill without
medical insurance, need fair representation in a legal matter, or God forbid, get into a serious car

471

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
accident and need the expert medical care of our world renown trauma center.

472

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
This county and county governments in general, have a daunting task. The services we provide
are not tangible to the average taxpayer yet we ask all taxpayers to assist in funding them.
As I said earlier, this budget also provides more than one billion dollars in operating funds for the
eleven separately elected officials. This funding represents my acknowledgment that many of the
services they provide are important and necessary. From assessing 1.7 million parcels of land to
conducting elections in the suburbs for millions of citizens...from recording well over a million
documents in the Recorder’s office to collecting and distributing tax proceeds to more than 700
units of local government, the importance of these offices can not be disputed. I firmly believe,
however, that each elected official, in working with this Board, can identify areas for reductions
as we move forward in this budget process.
While there are no new County dollars for new programs, there are a number of initiatives that we
plan to undertake in 2005 which will both improve service delivery and offer efficiencies to the
taxpayers.
In 2005, we look forward to the opening of the new Domestic Violence Courthouse - to ensure
that those who have the need to use this facility are provided with the security and services they
deserve.
With federal homeland security funds, we will wire every municipality who desires so that they
can take advantage of the most state-of-the-art technology available for homeland security. This
technology will also greatly assist in day-to-day law enforcement matters.
In 2005, we will create a mail-order pharmacy system that will avoid the need of many of our
patients to take public transportation and wait in long lines to have their prescriptions filled.
The Sheriff has agreed to pilot a program in the County Building to privatize custodial services.
Estimates indicate we may be able to save several million dollars annually if we were to institute
this program in all of the courthouses.
Last year, we instituted a new healthcare contribution schedule for executive employees.
Healthcare costs have risen by another 14% this year and we will ask for additional contributions
from all employees during union negotiations. At my direction, our labor team will also work to
develop a new pay schedule that is both fair to our employees and taxpayers.
I warned this Board last year that we had been too dependent on one-time revenues to balance the
2004 budget and that at some point those revenues would dry up and we would have to replace
them with reliable, on-going revenue streams. Last year, we used $32 million in one-time federal
health care funding and another $14 million from the self-insurance fund to balance the 2004
budget.
With the exception of tobacco taxes, our revenues have remained relatively flat over the past
several years.
When I was elected ten years ago, I appointed a transition team comprised of a number of well
known and respected public, private and civic leaders to look at the funding of this government.
They said, and I quote from their report, “new sources of revenue - which grow with the economy
- are needed in order to reduce the reliance on property taxes and to support increasing health
facility and law enforcement costs”.

473

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Ten years ago, property taxes represented 32% of the County’s budget. Today, through
expenditure reductions and alternate revenue sources, property taxes represent less than 24% of
our revenues - an accomplishment I am immensely proud of considering the undue burden other
units of local government place on property owners.

474

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
That being said, we were faced with difficult decisions on how to eliminate the remaining $73
million dollar shortfall I spoke of earlier. Cutting any deeper would mean service reductions and
layoffs, neither of which I can support at a time when more and more people are relying on us for
their basic needs. Therefore, we were faced with identifying new revenue options.
To maintain our commitment to the citizens of this County in holding the line on property taxes, I
am proposing a 2% hotel-motel tax which will generate approximately $20 million this year and a
2% prepared food and beverage tax which will generate $50 million this year. I am also
recommending an automatic amusement device tax of $200 per device which is expected to yield
$5 million dollars.
Hotel and food and beverage taxes are commonly used by counties across the Country. In Orange
County, California, the county levies a 10% tax on hotel rooms while Fairfax County, Virginia
levies a 4% tax. Miami-Dade County levies a 3% prepared food and beverage tax while Arlington
County, Virginia levies a 2% tax.
I understand the difficulty of supporting new taxes. I instructed my finance team to do everything
they could to avoid it but they have assured me that department heads and elected officials have
represented that cuts deeper than the $179 million would impact service delivery. If we are to
continue to provide the level of service our citizens expect today, next year and beyond, then our
choices are limited.
The measure of our success years from now will not be about how long it took to come to
agreement on the budget, or how many headlines supported our individual political agendas. It
will be about taking seriously the needs of the citizens of this county with the utmost respect for
the taxpayer.
It will be about continuing to provide hundreds of thousands of residents with health care. It will
be about providing prenatal care to ensure healthy futures for our children. It will be about
vaccinating those most vulnerable against influenza.
It will be about caring for the most serious injuries in our trauma center. It will be about
providing men with prostate screenings and women with mammograms to detect early stages of
cancer. It will be about providing the most comprehensive communicable disease care in this
country.
Our success will be about securing the five million residents of this county from not only
terrorism but from day-to-day public safety issues like drugs and alcohol. It will be about
ensuring the safety of the detainees and employees in our department of corrections.
It will be about linking more than 100 communities to the most state-of-the-art communications
systems to allow for real-time video of crimes in progress and other public safety incidents. It will
be about making sure that our families feel secure in a new domestic violence courthouse. It will
be about ensuring access and fair representation for all citizens regardless of their financial status.
It will be about maintaining a 500 mile highway system that connects nearly every municipal
boundary in this county. It will be about ensuring that every vote counts during an election. It will
be about fair assessments. It will be about doing our level best to attract and retain companies in
Cook County. And it will be about leveling the playing field for women and minorities in all our
contracts.

475

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005

It will be about open, honest and fair representation for all citizens.

476

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Today, I have laid out my 2005 executive budget recommendation. And I remind you that it is
just that. My recommendation is based on months of meetings and analysis with staff and elected
officials and years of budget experience. I hope that over the next several weeks, the rhetoric that
dominated last year’s budget process will make way for the reality of what we have been charged
to do by the citizens of this County.
I encourage each of you, in your role as commissioner, to take advantage of the budget process as
an opportunity to fully understand the services we provide. To ask the difficult questions during
the hearing process, to offer amendments that are thoughtful and reasonable and to remember that
there are citizens in this county that rely on us for some very basic needs.
I want to thank the finance team...Chief Financial Officer Tom Glaser, Budget Director Donna
Dunnings, Comptroller Walter Knorr and Revenue Director Barbara Bruno as well as Finance
Chairman John Daley for his continued leadership.
I thank you for your patience, for your attention and for your cooperation as we move forward on
behalf of the five and one half million residents of Cook County.
Thank you and may God continue to bless all of us.
JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President
* * * * *
The Message of the President to the Board of Cook County Commissioners was given by
President Stroger.
* * * * *
President Stroger then submitted the Executive Budget to the Board of Commissioners for the
Fiscal Year 2005, for referral to the Committee on Finance.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the President’s Executive
Budget be referred to the Committee on Finance. The motion carried unanimously.

PROPOSED ORDINANCES
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE TAX
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII,
Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

477

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
WHEREAS, as a home rule county, the County of Cook is authorized to impose and collect a tax
on Automatic Amusement Devices at locations within Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Cook County Commissioners finds that such alternative and new
sources of revenue are required to fund the operations of Cook County Government.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.

TITLE.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Automatic Amusement
Device Tax”. The tax herein imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the County of
Cook, the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the
foregoing.
SECTION 2.

DEFINITIONS.

For the purpose of this Ordinance, whenever any of the following words, terms or definitions are
used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:
“Automatic amusement device” means any machine, which, upon the insertion of a coin,
slug, token, card or similar object, or upon any other payment method, may be operated generally
for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score, and includes
but is not limited to such devices as jukeboxes, marble machines, pinball machines, video games,
movie and video booths or stands, bingo machines, slot machines, video games of chance and
similar devices as permitted by law and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under
whatever name by which they may be indicated. If a machine consists of more than one game
monitor which permits individuals to play separate games simultaneously, each separate game
monitor shall be deemed an automatic amusement device.
“Department” or “Department of Revenue” means the Cook County Department of
Revenue.
“Director” means the Director of the Cook County Department of Revenue.
“President” means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
“Owner” means any person who has an ownership or leasehold interest in such an
automatic amusement device, or any person who has a proprietary interest in the automatic
amusement device, so as to entitle such person to all or a portion of the proceeds from the
operation, conduct or presentation of such automatic amusement device.
“Person” means any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
limited liability company, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver,
executor, trustee, or other representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular and
plural are included in any circumstance.
SECTION 3.

TAX IMPOSED.

An annual tax in the amount of $200.00 is imposed upon each automatic amusement device

478

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005

operated within the County of Cook.

479

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 4.

TAX DECAL REQUIREMENTS.

A. The Automatic Amusement Device Tax shall be paid by the owner of such
device to the Department. The Department shall issue as evidence of the payment of the tax a
self-voiding adhesive tax decal to be placed on each device. The decal will be valid for the
period beginning on September 1st through August 31st. Such decal shall bear the words “Cook
County Amusement Device Tax”, or any other wording as may be prescribed by the Department.
It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax decal during the year for which it was issued.
B. It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of any premises or person in
control of such premises to permit the installation or use of an automatic amusement device
within the County of Cook unless the tax has been paid and is evidenced by a tax decal affixed to
a conspicuous location on the automatic amusement device. Each such device shall be plainly
labeled with the name, address and telephone number of its owner. No person shall remove, alter
or deface the tax decal required by this Ordinance, or allow use of an automatic amusement
device if the tax decal has been removed, altered, defaced or become illegible. The owner or
lessee of the premises where the device is placed for operation by the public and every person
responsible for the premises shall be jointly and severally liable for a violation of this Section.
C. A decal must be purchased from the Department and affixed to an automatic
amusement device prior to its placement at a location in Cook County.
D. No decal shall be transferable. No refunds shall be made for any decal
properly issued by the Department.
SECTION 5.

SEIZURE FOR UNLAWFUL USE.

Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized representatives shall discover any
automatic amusement device that does not bear the proper tax decal, the owner of the device may
be subject to penalties as provided in the County Uniform Penalty, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance and the device, or any part of the contents thereof, may be seized by any duly
authorized enforcement official. An administrative hearing shall be held by the Department
regarding the unlawful use including but not limited to, the penalties to be imposed and the
seizure, if applicable. Notice of the hearing shall be sent to the owner of record at the address set
forth on the identification label affixed to the device. The device shall be retained by the
enforcing officer until such time as the owner of the device pays the delinquent tax, any penalties
assessed by the hearing officer, and reimburses the County for actual cartage cost incurred in the
seizure and $50.00 for each day or part of day the device has been in storage. If it is determined
at a hearing that a seized device was properly decaled, it shall be returned to the owner without
charge. If it is determined that the automatic amusement device was not properly decaled and the
penalties and other costs have not been paid to the County as provided above, the device and all
money found within the device at the time of confiscation shall become the property of the
County. The device may be sold by the County and the profits from the sale, as well as any
confiscated funds found within the device, shall be used to defray the costs associated with
seizure, cartage, notice, storage and hearings. If the owner of the device does not respond to the
notice of hearing within 20 days after the mailing of the notice, the device and its contents may be
forfeited to the County upon order of the hearing officer.

480

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 6.

REGISTRATION OF OWNERS, RENEWALS AND REMITTANCE.

A. It shall be the duty of each owner or person in possession of an automatic
amusement device to apply for registration with the Department within twenty (20) days after the
adoption of this Ordinance or the commencement of business. Application for registration shall
be made to the Department by use of a form furnished by the Department for such purpose and
shall contain information the Department requires. Applications for renewal of tax decals must
be made to the Department on or before August 1st of each year.
B. It shall be the duty of each owner or person in possession of an automatic
amusement device to purchase a decal before the automatic amusement device is placed into
service in Cook County.
C. It shall be the duty of each owner of an automatic amusement device placed
in service in Cook County to make payable to the Cook County Collector a tax remittance, which
must accompany its application. No application shall be processed unless a tax remittance of
$200 per device accompanies said application.
SECTION 7.

BOOKS AND RECORDS.

Every owner or person in possession of an automatic amusement device within Cook County
shall jointly and severally have the duty to maintain complete and accurate books, records and
accounts showing the proper tax has been paid for each amusement device. These documents
shall be made available to the Department or a duly authorized representative for examination
upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours.
SECTION 8.

RULES AND REGULATIONS.

The Department may promulgate reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry
out the duties imposed upon it by this Ordinance.
SECTION 9.

PENALTIES.

Any violation of this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not
more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. It shall be deemed a violation of this Ordinance for any person
knowingly to furnish false or inaccurate information as required herein. Criminal prosecutions
pursuant to this Ordinance shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute civil
proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalties due and owing, as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding. Civil penalties and interest assessed pursuant to this Ordinance
shall be computed at the rate provided by the Cook County Uniform Penalty, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Cook County Ord. 92-O-53).
SECTION 10. REPEALER.
All ordinances, resolutions, orders or parts thereof, which conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
SECTION 11. SEVERABILITY.

481

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
If any one or more of the provisions of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or the
application thereof is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this Ordinance and the
application of such provisions to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

482

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 12. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Ordinance shall take effect on September 1, 2005.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 268952). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS
PREPARED FOOD AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII,
Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and
WHEREAS, Illinois law (55 ILCS §5/5-1009) permits home rule units to impose a tax on food
prepared for immediate consumption and on alcoholic beverages sold by a business which
provides for on premises consumption of said food or alcoholic beverages; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Cook County Commissioners finds that such alternative and new
sources of revenue are required to fund the operations of Cook County Government.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. TITLE.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Prepared Food and
Alcoholic Beverage Tax Ordinance”. The tax herein imposed is in addition to all other taxes
imposed by the County of Cook, the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof.
SECTION 2.

DEFINITIONS.

For the purpose of this Ordinance, whenever any of the following words, terms or definitions are
used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:
A. “Prepared Food”
1. “Prepared Food” means and includes any solid, beverage (including both
alcoholic and non-alcoholic liquid), powder or item used or intended to be used for human
internal consumption, whether simple, compound or mixed, and which has been prepared for
immediate consumption.

483

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
2. “Prepared Food” may be purchased for consumption within or upon the
premises where it is sold or it may be purchased for consumption off the premises where it is
sold. However, with respect to food purchased for consumption off the premises where it is sold,
“Prepared Food” does not mean or include any food which is sold in a closed or sealed bottle,
can, carton or container of the manufacturer or wholesaler or which has not been prepared for
immediate consumption.
B. “Alcoholic Beverage”
“Alcoholic Beverage” includes alcohol spirits, wine and beer and any liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a
human being. The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated there under, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent or less of
alcohol by volume.
C. “Person”
“Person” means any natural person, trust, court appointed representative, syndicate, association,
partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust, institution, agency, government
corporation, municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier,
vendor, vendee, operator, user or owner or any officers, agents, employees, or other
representatives acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity or any other entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties; the masculine, feminine, singular or plural,
is included in any circumstances.
D. “Purchase at Retail”
“Purchase at Retail” means to obtain for use or consumption in exchange for a consideration,
whether in the form of money, credits, barter or any other nature, and not for resale.
E. “Retailer”
“Retailer” means a Person who sells or offers for sale, for use or consumption and not for resale.
F. “Prepared Food Facility”
1. “Prepared Food Facility” means any person or establishment in Cook
County, which sells at retail Prepared Food and which provides for on premise consumption of
said food, whether said food is consumed on the premises or not, and whether or not such
Prepared Food Facility is conducted along with any other use(s) in a common premise or business
establishment.
2. A “Prepared Food Facility” includes but is not limited to establishments
commonly called a restaurant, eating place, drive-in restaurant, bakery, buffet, cafeteria, café,
lunch counter, fast food outlet, catering service, coffee shop, diner, sandwich shop, soda fountain,
bar, cocktail lounge, soft drink parlor, ice cream parlor, tea room, delicatessen, hotel, motel, or
club, or any other establishment which sells at retail, Prepared Food.
3. A “Prepared Food Facility” does not include churches, public or private
schools, boarding houses, day care centers, hospitals, nursing homes, retirement centers or similar

484

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
residential care facilities or programs for the central preparation of meals to be delivered and
consumed at private residences of invalids or the elderly and which are not presently subject to
the State Retailers’ Occupation Tax. A facility shall be included as a Prepared Food Facility
under sub-section F.1. above if it fails to meet the criteria set forth in this sub-section F.3.

485

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
G. “Alcoholic Beverage Facility“
“Alcoholic Beverage Facility” means any Person or establishment in Cook County which sells at
retail Alcoholic Beverages and which provides for on premises consumption of said beverages,
whether said beverages are consumed on the premises or not, and whether or not such Alcoholic
Beverage Facility is conducted along with other uses(s) in a common premise or business
establishment.
H. “Department”
“Department” means the Department of Revenue in the Bureau of Finance of Cook County.
I.

“County Board”

“County Board” means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
SECTION 3.

TAX IMPOSED.

Effective as of and commencing on the effective date of this Ordinance, a tax, in addition to any
and all other taxes, is imposed upon the purchase of Prepared Foods and Alcoholic Beverages at
retail at any Prepared Food Facility or Alcoholic Beverage Facility within Cook County at the
rate of two percent (2%) of the purchase price of such Prepared Food and Alcoholic Beverage.
The liability for payment of the tax shall be borne by the purchaser.
SECTION 4.

COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER.

The owner and operator of each Prepared Food Facility and each Alcoholic Beverage Facility
within Cook County shall jointly and severally have the duty to collect and account for said tax
from each purchaser at the time that the consideration for such purchase is paid.
SECTION 5.

BOOKS AND RECORDS.

The owner and operator of each Prepared Food Facility and each Alcoholic Beverage Facility
within Cook County, shall jointly and severally have the duty to maintain complete and accurate
books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts for sales of Prepared Food and Alcoholic
Beverage, and the taxes collected each day, which shall be made available to the Department for
examination and for audit by the Department upon reasonable notice and during normal business
hours.

SECTION 6.

REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OPERATORS.

A. Registration. The owner or operator of each Prepared Food Facility and each
Alcoholic Beverage Facility within the County of Cook shall register with the Department no
later than twenty (20) days after the adoption of this Ordinance or the commencement of
business.
B. Filing. Owners or operators of Prepared Food and Alcoholic Beverage
Facilities shall file a sworn tax return on a monthly basis with the Department showing gross
sales of Prepared Foods and Alcoholic Beverages during the preceding monthly period, upon
forms prescribed by the Department. Each tax return of sales of Prepared Foods and Alcoholic
486

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
Beverages shall be accompanied by a remittance to the County of Cook of all taxes imposed by
this Ordinance which are due and owing for the period of time to which the tax return applies.

487

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
C. Remittance. The remittance and tax return shall be filed with the Department
on the last day of the month following the month which the tax return and remittance covers. A
tax return received in an envelope, properly addressed to the Department and postmarked by the
United States Post Office on or before the last day of the month shall be considered timely filed.
The remittance shall be made payable to the Cook County Department of Revenue. The tax
return shall also be accompanied with a copy of the return filed with the Illinois Department of
Revenue for sales within Cook County covering the same reporting period.
SECTION 7.

RULE MAKING.

A. The Department may prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations
not inconsistent with this Ordinance necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this
Ordinance. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable
procedures consistent with existing practices of owners and operators of Prepared Food Facilities
and Alcoholic Beverage Facilities for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied upon the
purchaser of Prepared Foods and Alcoholic Beverages.
B. The Department shall have the authority to appoint operators or owners or
any other person within or without the County of Cook as agents for the collection and remittance
of the tax herein levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a commission not
exceeding one percent (1%) of the tax due under this Ordinance to such agent for services
rendered in connection with the tax herein levied, provided said tax is remitted, in full, by the due
date.
SECTION 8.

PENALTIES.

Any violation of this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not
more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. It shall be deemed a violation of this Ordinance for any person
knowingly to furnish false or inaccurate information or fail to file the tax return and remittance as
required herein. Criminal prosecutions pursuant to this Ordinance shall in no way bar the right of
Cook County to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalties due
and owing, as well as costs incurred for such proceeding. Civil penalties and interest assessed
pursuant to this Ordinance shall be computed at the rate provided by the Cook County Uniform
Penalty, Interest and Procedures Ordinance. (Cook County Ord. 92-O-53).
SECTION 9.

TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS.

If any person collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, but which
amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and does not return the same to the purchaser who
paid the tax, the person who collected the tax shall account for and pay over those excess amounts
to Cook County along with the tax properly collected.
SECTION 10. SEVERABILITY.
If any one or more of the provisions of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or the
application thereof is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this Ordinance and the
application of such provisions to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

488

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 11. CONFIDENTIALITY.
All information received by the Department from returns filed pursuant to this Ordinance or from
any investigations conducted pursuant to this Ordinance, except for official County purposes, or
as required by the Freedom of Information Act, shall be confidential.
SECTION 12. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force as of April 1, 2005.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 268953). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS
HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII,
Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and
WHEREAS, as a home rule county, the County of Cook is authorized by 55 ILCS 5/5-1009 to
impose and collect a tax, however measured, based on the use of a hotel or motel room or similar
facility at a location within Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Cook County Commissioners finds that such alternative and new
sources of revenue are required to fund the operations of Cook County Government.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.

TITLE.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Hotel Accommodations
Tax Ordinance”. The tax herein imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the County
of Cook, the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
SECTION 2.

DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.

A. Definitions. For the purpose of this Ordinance, whenever any of the following words,
terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section:

489

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
1. “County” means the County of Cook.
2. “Department” means the Cook County Department of Revenue within the Cook
County Bureau of Finance.
3. “Director” means the Director of Revenue, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
4. “Hotel accommodations” means a room or rooms in any building or structure
kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel,
apartment hotel, lodging house, bed-and-breakfast establishment, dormitory or place, where
sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition accommodations are furnished for lease or
rent, whether with or without meals, in which seven or more such accommodations are used or
maintained for guests, lodgers or roomers. The term “hotel accommodations” shall not include (i)
an accommodation which a person occupies, or has the right to occupy, as his or her domicile and
permanent residence; or (ii) any temporary accommodation provided in any building or structure
owned or operated, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of a not-for-profit medical institution,
hospital, or allied educational institution; or (iii) any temporary accommodation provided by an
accredited educational institution for use by its students.
5. “Person” means any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint venture, club, company,
business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society, or any group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise.
Whenever the term “person” is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as
applied to associations shall mean that the owners or part-owners thereof, and as applied to
corporations, the officers thereof.
B. Construction. In this Ordinance, unless the text otherwise requires, words in the
singular number include the plural and in the plural include the singular; words of the masculine
gender include the feminine and the neuter; and when the context so indicates, words in the
neuter gender may refer to any gender.
SECTION 3.

TAX IMPOSED.

Effective as of and commencing on the effective date of this Ordinance, a tax is imposed and
shall accrue and be collected upon the use of hotel accommodations within Cook County at a rate
of two percent (2%) of the gross rental or leasing charge.
SECTION 4.

TAX TO BE BORNE BY TENANT.

The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by the lessee or
tenant of any such hotel accommodations. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes. It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations
to secure said tax from the lessee or tenant of said hotel accommodations and pay over to the
Department said tax under rules and regulations prescribed by the Director and as otherwise
provided by this Ordinance.
SECTION 5.

HOTEL TO SECURE TAX FROM TENANT.

The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel accommodation owner, manager, or operator

490

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge or rent to which it applies. Every
lessee or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice, receipt or other statement or memorandum of the
price, charge or rent payable upon which the hotel accommodations tax shall be stated, charged
and shown separately.

491

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 6. REGISTRATION OF OWNERS AND OPERATORS; FILING AND
REMITTANCE.
A. Registration. Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations
within the County, after the adoption of this Ordinance, shall register with the Department within
twenty (20) days after the adoption of this Ordinance or the commencement of business.
B. Filing. Owners, managers or operators shall file a sworn tax return on a
monthly basis with the Department showing tax receipts received with respect to hotel
accommodations rented or leased during the preceding monthly period, upon forms prescribed by
the Director. At the time of filing said tax return, the owner, manager or operator of hotel
accommodations shall pay to the Department all taxes due for the period to which the tax return
applies.
C. Remittance. The remittance and tax return shall be filed with the Department
on the twentieth (20th) day of the month following the month for which the return and remittance
covers. A tax return received in an envelope, properly addressed to the Department and
postmarked by the United States Post Office on or before the twentieth day of the month shall be
considered timely filed. The tax return shall also be accompanied by a remittance of the
appropriate amount of tax applicable to the receipts reported. The remittance shall be made
payable to the Cook County Collector.
SECTION 7.

BOOKS AND RECORDS.

Every owner, manager and operator of hotel accommodations within the County, shall jointly and
severally have the duty to maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing
(1) the process, (2) rents or charges made or charged, and (3) occupancies taxable under this
Ordinance each day. These documents shall be made available to the Department or a duly
authorized representative for examination and for audit by the Department or a duly authorized
representative upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours.
SECTION 8.

RULE MAKING.

A. The Department may prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations
not inconsistent with this Ordinance necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this
Ordinance. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable
procedures consistent with existing practices of owners, managers or operators of hotel
accommodations for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied upon the lessee or tenant of
any hotel accommodations.
B. The Department shall have the authority to appoint owners, managers, or
operators and any others persons within or without the County of Cook as agents for the
collection and remittance of the tax herein levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a
commission not exceeding one percent (1%) of the tax due to the County under this Ordinance to
such agent for services rendered in connection with the tax herein levied, provided said tax is
remitted, in full, by the due date.
SECTION 9.

PENALTIES.

Any violation of this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not
more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. It shall be deemed a violation of this Ordinance for any person
knowingly to furnish false or inaccurate information as required herein. Criminal prosecutions

492

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
pursuant to this Ordinance shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute civil
proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalties due and owing, as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding. Civil penalties and interest assessed pursuant to this Ordinance
shall be computed at the rate provided by the Cook County Uniform Penalty, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Cook County Ord. 92-O-53).

493

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005
SECTION 10. TRANSMITTAL OF EXCESS TAX COLLECTIONS.
If any person collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this Ordinance, but which
amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and does not return the same to the purchaser who
paid the tax, the person who collected the tax shall account for and pay over those excess amounts
to the County along with the tax properly collected.
SECTION 11. SEVERABILITY.
If any one or more of the provisions of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or the
application thereof is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this Ordinance and the
application of such provisions to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 12. CONFIDENTIALITY.
All information received by the Department from returns filed pursuant to this Ordinance or from
any investigations conducted pursuant to this Ordinance, except for official County purposes, or
as required by the Freedom of Information Act, shall be confidential.
SECTION 13. TAX TO BE PAID INTO COOK COUNTY TREASURY.
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this Ordinance, including penalties
and interest, shall be paid into the treasury of the County and shall be credited to and deposited in
the corporate fund of the County.
SECTION 14. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force as of April 1, 2005.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 268954). The motion carried
unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Special Meeting do
now adjourn.
The motion prevailed and the Special Meeting stood adjourned.
The next regular County Board Meeting is scheduled by law, for Thursday, January 20, 2005.
________________________

________________________
County Clerk

494

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR JANUARY 5, 2005

495

