The Honorable,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

JULY 23. 2012
(RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, German, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri,
Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (16)

Commissioner Collins (1)

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau;
Kesner Bienvenu Special Counsel to the President; Matthew J. Burke -
Assistant General Counsel, Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce, Legal Labor Affairs;
Patricia Horne Director, Support Services Department; Zelda Whittler 
Undersheriff, Cook County Sheriff? Of?ce; Larry L. Deskins CBM Premier
Management LLC, Mike Belletive - CBM Premier Management Marlin C.
Sejnoha, Jr., - President/CEO, CBM Managed Services; Alexis Herrera Chief
Financial Of?cer, Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce; Maria De Lourdes Coss - Chief
Procurement Of?cer; LaVeme Hall Contract Compliance Of?cer; Richard

Prendergast - Aramark LLC.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant
to notice on Monday, July 23, 2012 at the hour of 1:00 P.M., recessed and reconvened for a
meeting on Tuesday, July 24, 2012 at the hour of 10:00 AM. in the Board Room, Room 569,
County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered, for information purposes only, the following item and upon
adoption of this report, the recommendation is as follows:

318664

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by TONI PRECKWINKLE, President,
and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner.

Transmitting a Communication dated July 9, 2012 from Kesner Bienvenu, Assistant
Special Legal Counsel to the President, respectfully submitting a Substitute
Proposed Ordinance Amendment providing for comprehensive changes to the Cook
County Procurement Code and Minority/Women Business Enterprise Ordinance,
for your approval.

Dear Commissioners:

Attached hereto, please ?nd a proposed amendment to Item No. 318664, initially
introduced June 19, 2012. The changes generally facilitate certi?cation

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 2

reciprocity, de?ne the authority with respect to contract amendments, and
clarify invoicing requirements. The changes are described in greater detail as
follows:

1. The authority to approve and execute amendments to contracts is
more clearly limited to the $150,000 authority included in Section 34-123;

2. The de?nition of ?County Marketplace? is modi?ed to include the counties
of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will;

3. The initial fee for certi?cation is increased to $250, and the fee for
?ling a ?no change? af?davit is eliminated;

4. The construction ordinance includes language from the Interim
Construction ordinance passed in June of 2011 so that it is more
clearly severable from the non-construction portion of the ordinance;

5. The Chief Procurement Of?cer is granted the ability to use prequali?cation
as one of her innovative procurement methods; and

6. The invoice requirements in Section 310 are modi?ed to address
Professional Services and Consulting contracts.

Please call me with any questions. Thank you in advance for your assistance.

Very truly yours,
Kesner Bienvenu
Assistant Special Legal Counsel

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN ORDINANCE AMENDMENT to various Divisions, Sections, and
Paragraphs of Chapter 34, Article IV of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

Communication No. 318664 was amended by errata and was further amended
by substitution at the Finance Committee meeting of July 10, 2012. The
complete text of item is available on the website of the Secretary to the Board,


*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 6/19/12.
Deferred on 7/10/12

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved Approval of
Communication No. 318664.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to further amend
Communication No. 318664. The motion carried, and Communication No. 318664 was
amended, as follows:

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO CONIMUNICATION NO. 318664

Date: July 23, 2012 (Note: changes presented by this Amendment are indicated herein by
double underline and double strike-through. This item was previously amended by errata
and substitution on July 10, 2012.)

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE3

Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND JOHN P. DALEY,
COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that Chapter 34, Article IV, Division 1, Sec. '34-

 

 

 

 

 

Sec. 34-125. - Powers and duties of the Chief Procurement Of?cer.
The Chief Procurement Officer shall:

Make all Procurements and conduct all activities related to the Procurement Process in
accordance with the Procurement Code and any procedures promulgated pursuant hereto;

Establish and maintain procurement policies and procedures, and standardized documents
and forms to implement the Procurement Code;

Cooperate with the Contracts Compliance Director to coordinate the procurement process
with the Minority- and Women-Owned Business Program established pursuant to Division 8 of
this Procurement Code;

Develop and maintain procedures for disseminating information and notice of procurement
opportunities;

Have authority to implement innovative procurement methods and processes pursuant to this
Procurement Code;

Have authority to approve and execute an assignment of or an amendment to a Contract;
provided that any such amendment does not extend the Contract by more than one year, and
further provided that the total cost of all such amendments does not increase the amount of the
Contract beyond the authority of the CPO granted 1n Section 34- 123?er?m?the?ease?ef?Gentraets

 

Have authority to establish the commencement and expiration dates of any Contract as
necessary to permit the Contract period to commence upon the date of Execution of the Contract
by the County, unless another commencement date is speci?ed in the Contract;

Within the authority, approve and execute Contracts;

Ensure that all certi?cations, statements and af?davits required by this Procurement Code are
submitted;

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE4

Determine when supplies, materials and equipment are obsolete or unusable, and trade in, sell
or dispose of such property, except for such property which is the responsibility of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System;

Compile and maintain information for all Procurements, including those Procurements Ed
Contract amendments which do not require Board approval. The CPO shall submit a report to the
Board on a basis listing the Procurements and Procurement amendments executed by the
gm that do not require Board approval, including a list of each Person from whom the County
makes such a Procurement and the method of Procurement applied, as well as Procurements that
authorize the advance payment for services. Such reports shall include:

 

l) The name of the Vendor;
(2) A brief description of the product or service provided;

 

The name ofthe Using Department and budgetaryr account from which the funds are
being drawn; and

(4) The amount and term of the Procurement; and
The amount and/or extension period ofthe amendment, il?applieable.

Such report shall be provided to the Board of Commissioners in an electronic format.

 

The CPO shall work with the Comptroller to provide a report of the individual and
total aggregate amount disbursements made for Procurements that do not require Board approval.
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made
pursuant to contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial
services for Cook County, including the separatelv elected Officials, which involve an
expenditure of $150.000.00 or more. within two weekg of being made. Such reports shall include:

(1) The name of the Vendor;

(2) A brief description of the product or service provided;

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGES

(3) The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are
being drawn; and

 

(4) The contract number under which the payment is being made.
Such report shall be provided to the Board of Commissioners in an electronic format.

(1m) Make available on the County's website information related to all Procurements, including,
but not limited to, a list of Contracts and a list of Contractors and subcontractors;

(nan) Keep a record of any Person who has been disquali?ed under Division 4, Disquali?cation;
Penalties, and shall provide such record to the Cook County Health and Hospitals System;

(no) Have authority to terminate a Contract in accordance with its terms;
(op) Issue notices of violation to enforce the provisions of this Code, as applicable, and institute
enforcement proceedings under Chapter 2, Article IX, as appropriate;

(pg) Work with the Comptroller to assure that Contractors are not paid in advance of
performance, unless such advance payment is provided for and properly justi?ed in the Contract;
and

Have charge of such other Procurement activities as may be assigned by the President or the
Board.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34,
Article IV, Division 2, Sec. 34-144(a) of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-144. Innovative procurement.

The CPO may make a Procurement using innovative methods of procurement,
including but not limited to electronic procurement, reverse auctions, electronic bidding,
electronic auctions, preguali?cation, and pilot procurement programs that have no cost to the
County. In order to implement innovative methods of procurement, either directly or through a
service provider, the CPO must make a determination that such process is competitive and in the
best interest of the County.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED THAT Chapter 34, Article IV, Division 8, Subdivision 1, Sec.
34-260 of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34?260. Short title.

This subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Minority- and
Women?Owned Business Enterprise General Ordinance. This subdivision is applicable to all

Contracts, includingexcept Public Works Contracts ether?than?as?medi?ed?parsm which are
governed by sSubdivision 2 of this Division 8.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED THAT Chapter 34, Article IV, Division 8, Subdivision 1, Sec.
34-263 of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 6

Sec. 34?263. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this SLbdivision l?nelud?i-ng?beth
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Capitalized terms not de?ned in this
section are de?ned in Division 1 of this Procurement Code, or in Sec. l-3 of the County Code.
Additional terms applicable to subdivision II are set forth in such subdivision.

A?iliate. An ?Af?liate? of, or a Person ?Af?liated? with, a speci?ed Person shall mean
any Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled
by, or is under common Control with, the Person speci?ed. Af?liates shall be considemd


County Marketplace means the 
six-coun re ion, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, Kendal-lMcHenry and Will.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED THAT Chapter 34, Article IV, Division 8, Subdivision 11,
Sections 34-285 to 289 of the Cook County Code, are hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34?285. Short title; incorporation of provisions.

This subdivision may be known and cited as the Cook County Public Works Minority-
and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance and may be cited as such. le?previsiens?ef

 
   
 

  

   

   

    

   

 

Sec. 34?286. Findings.

The ?ndings set forth in subdivision I Sec. 34-261 of this division 8 are incorporated
herein by this reference.

After Ithe requirement in subdivision I that minority- and women-owned businesses
be allotted certain percentages of County construction contracts was ruled
unconstitutional, the County witnessed a drastic reduction in WWBE construction prime contract

and subcontract participation, 

 

   

 

The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook, after
considering evidence presented at trial in Builders Association of Greater Chicago v. City of
Chicago, 298 F.Supp.2d 725 (ND. 111. 2003) and Northern Contracting, Inc. v. Illinois
Department of Transportation, 2005 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19868 (ND. 111. Sept. 8, 2005); (ii)
County statistical evidence of continuing discrimination against Blacks, Hispanics, Asians and
women in the County's Procurements; the Report title, "Review of Compelling Evidence of
Discrimination Against Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprise in the Chicago Area

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE7

Construction Industry and Recommendations for Narrowly Tailored Remedies for Cook County,
Illinois;" as well as (iv) anecdotal evidence of discrimination against minorities and women in the
County's Public Works Contracts; and receiving and considering written reports, adopts the
following ?ndings as a strong basis in evidence supporting a narrowly tailored, remedial
af?rmative action program in Public Works Contracts.

The County seeks to provide a level playing ?eld and equal access for all prime
contractors and subcontractors to participate in Public Works Contracts;

The County has engaged in committee hearings in which the County has heard
anecdotal evidence of discrimination in the construction industry, has commissioned Ed
reviewed the a study entitled ?The Status of Minority and Women?Owned Business Enterprises
Relevant to Construction Activity In and Around Cook County [Hinois?Tthe Studv?) on
the. levels of PCB participation in Public Works Contracts, 

and has considered the evidence

 

in relevant case law; and

The NERA Study made recommendations for a revised Minority and Women owned
business program for construction contracting, emphasizing the establishment of Project-speci?c
goals, implementation of race and gender neutral measures, and enhancements to data gathering,
implementation and performance monitoring of the program;

The County has a compelling interest in preventing discrimination and desires to

reaf?rm its commitment to full and fair opportunities for all ?rms to participate in its construction
contracts.

Sec. 34-287 Policy.

 



 

it is herehv found, determined and declared that the purpose of this Ordinance is to
ensure the full and equitable participation of Minoritv- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises
in the Countv's procurement process as both prime and subcontractors in the Countv's Public
Works contracts. The County is committed to a policy of preventing discrimination in the award
of or participation in Public Works contracts and has recommended appropriate narrowly tailored
remedies to eliminate any such discrimination.

Sec. 34-288. ngm?m?geals? Applicabiliu.

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 8

 

This subdivision shall applv to all Public Works contracts. regardless of the sources of
other funds: provided that any Public Works contract with respect to which a goal for Minority-
Owned Business Enterprise or Women?Owned Business Enterprise participation is inconsistent
with or prohibited by State or Federal law shall be exempt from the goals included in this
subdivision.

Sec. 34-289. Gememal-lyh?seful?Fune?en? Severabiligj.

 

If any section. subsection, clause or provision of this subdivision is held to be invalid bv a
court of competent iurisdiction. the remainder of the subdivision shall not be affected by such

invalidity.

Sec. 34-290. De?nitions.
The following terms shall have the following meaning;

Af?liate of a person or entitv means a person or entity that directly or indirectly through
one or more intermediaries. controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with. the
person or entity. In determining Affiliation. the County shall consider all appropriate fact?
including common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships. Af?liates
l??l?s?i

Annual Participation Goals mean the targeted levels established bv the County for the
annual aggregate participation of MBEs and WBEs in County construction contracts.

Business means a sole proprietorship, partnership. corporation, limited liabilitv companv.
Joint Venture or any other business or professional entity.

Certi?ed Firm means a ?rm that has been accepted by the County as a certi?ed MBE or
WBE.

Contractor means any Business that seeks to enter into a construction contract with the
County. other than for professional services. and includes all partners and Af?liates Business.

Commercially Useful Function means responsibility for the execution of a distinct
element of the work of the contract. which is carried out by actually performing, managing, and
supervising the work involved. or ful?lling such responsibilities as a Joint Venture partner.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE9

Compliance Contract Director or Director? means the Contract Compliance
Director.

County means the County of Cook and its participating User Departments.

County's Marketplace means the 
by-the?Be-reaa?eHhe?Genses six-coun re ion, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, and Will.

Doing Business means having a physical location from which to engage in for pro?t
activities in the scopets) of espertise of the Business.

Economically Disadvantaged means an individual with a Personal Net Worth less than
$2,000,000.00 indexed annuallv for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price Index. published by
the U.S. Department of Labor. Bureau of Labor Standards. beginning January 2004 

Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform in the ?eld of
endeavor in which certi?cation is sought by the Business, as de?ned by normal industry
practices, including licensure where required.

Good Faith Efforts means actions undertaken by a Contractor to achieve an MBE or
WBE goal, which. by their scope. intensity, and appropriateness to the obiectivc, can reasonably
be expected to ful?ll the Program's goals.

Joint Venture means an association of two or more Businesses proposing to perform a for
pro?t business enterprise. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms
and conditions of the relationships between the partners and their relationship and responsibility
to the contract.

Local Business means a Business located Within the County's Marketplace which has the
maiority of its regular, full time work force located within the County's Marketplace.

Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.

Manufacturer means a ?rm that operates or maintains a factory or establishment that
produces, on the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment required under the
contract and of the general character described by the speci?cations.

Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) means a Business:

Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority individuals- or in the
case of a publicly owned Business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of
which is owned by one or more Minority Individuals;

Whose management. policies, major decisions and dailyr business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one or more Minority Individuals;

(3) Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

4) Which is a Certi?ed Firm; and

(5) Which is a Local Small Business.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)


Minority Individual means:

(1) African-Americans or Blacks. which includes persons having origins in anv of the
Black racial groups of Africa;

(2) Hispanic-Americans. which includes persons of Mexican. Pucrto Rican. Cuban.
Caribbean, Dominican. Central or South American;

Native-Americans. which includes persons who are American Indians. Eskimos.
Aleuts. or Native Hawaiians; or

(4) Asian-Americans. which includes persons whose origins are in an),r of the original
peoples of the Far East. Southeast Asia. the islands of the Pacific or the Northern
Marianas, or the Indian Subcontinent; or

(5) Individual members of other groups. including but not limited to Arab?Americans.
found bv the Countv to be sociallv disadvantaged by having suffered racial or
ethnic preiudice or cultural bias within American societv. without regard to
individual qualities. resulting in decreased Opportunities to compete in the County's
marketplace or to do business with the County.

Owned means having all of the customarv incidents of ownership, including the right of
disposition, and sharing in all of the risks. responsibilities and profits commensurate with the
degree of ownership.

Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after total liabilities
are deducted An individual's pelsonal net worth does not include the individual's ownerlep

 

 

- -- - - - - - - - or the 1nd1v1duals
equity in his or her primary place or re51dence As to assets held jointly with his or her spouse, an
individual's personal net worth includes onlv that individuals share of such assets. An individual's
net worth also includes the present value of the individual's interest in anv vested pension plans.
individual retirement accounts. or other retirement savings or investment programs less the tax
and interest penalties that would be imposed if the asset were distributed at the present time.

 

 

Program means the Program established bv the Minority- and Women- Owned Business
Enterprise Interim Ordinance.

 

Proiect Speci?c Goals means the Goals established for a particular proiect or contract
based upon the availability of MBEs or WBEs in the scopes of work of the Proiect.

Public Works means all ?xed works constructed or demolished bv the County. or paid for
whollv or in part out of public funds administered bv the Countv. "Public Works" as de?ned
herein includes all projects ?nanced in whole or in part with bonds. grants. loans. or other funds
made available bv or through federal or State government or the Countv. "Public Works" does
not include protects undeltaken bv the owner at an owner-occupied single-familv residence or at
an owner-occupied unit of a multi-familv residence. ?Public Walks? includes anv maintenance
repaiI. assembly. or disassemblv work perfmmed on equipment whether owned leased. o1 rented.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 1 1

Regular Dealer means a firm that owns. operates. or maintains a store. warehouse. or
other establishment in which the materials. supplies. articles or equipment of the general
character described by the specifications and required under the contract are bought. kept in
stock. and regularly sold or leased to the public in the usual course of business. To be a Regular
Dealer. the ?rm must be an established. regular Business that engages. as its principal business
and under its own name. in the purchase and sale or lease of the products in question. A firm may
be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products. steel. cement. gravel. stone. or
asphalt without owning. operating. or maintaining a place of business if the firm both owns and
operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing of a Regular Dealer's
distribution equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and not on an ad hoc or contract-
bv-contract basis. Packagers. manufacture representatives. or other persons who arrange or
expedite transactions are not Regular Dealers.

Small Business means a small business as de?ned by the US. Small Business
Administration. pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121. relevant to the
scopets) of work the firm seeks to perform on County contracts. A ?rm is not an eligible small
business enterprise in any calendar fiscal year in which its gross receipts. averaged over the ?rm's
previous ?ve ?scal years. exceed the size standards of 13 CFR Part 12] .

Socially Disadvantaged means a Minority individual or Woman who has been subiected
to racial. ethnic or gender preiudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her
identity as a member of a group and without regard to individual qualities. Social disadvantage
must stem from circumstances beyond the individuals control. A Socially Disadvantaged
individual must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States.

User Department means the department of the Countv or elected of?cial responsible for
initiating the procurement process.

Utilization Plan means the list of MBES and WBEs that the Bidder/Proposer commits
will be utilized. the scopes of the work and the dollar values or the percentages of the work to be

performed.

Woman means a person of the female gender.

Woman-Owned Business Enterprise (WBE) means a Business:

1] Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Women. or in the case of a
publicly owned Business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is

owned by one or more Women;

(2) Whose management. policies, maior decisions and dailv business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one or more such Women:

(3) Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

(4) Which is a Certi?ed Firm; and

 

(5) Which is a Local Small Business.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 12

Sec. 34-291. Program administration.

The CC Director who shall report to the President ofthe Board of Commissioners of
Cook County. shall administer the Program. and whose duties shall include:

(1) Formulating. proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development.
implementation and monitoring of the Program.

Providing information and assistance to MBEs and WBEs relating to County
procurement practices and procedures. and bid speci?cations. requirements. goals

and prereguisites.

Establishing unifonn procedures and criteria for certifying. recertifving and
decertifving Businesses as MBEs and WBEs. accepting certi?cations by other
agencies. and maintaining a directory of Certi?ed Firms.

(4) Establishing Project Speci?c Goals. in collaboration with the User Department.

Evaluating Contractors' achievement of Project Specific Goals or and Good Faith
Efforts to meet Proiect Speci?c Goals.

(6) Working with User Degrtments to monitor contracts to ensure prompt payments to
MBEs and WBEs and compliance with Project Speci?c Goals and commitments,
including gathering data to facilitate such monitoring.

(7) Receiving. reviewing. and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the
Program.

(8) Collecting data to evaluate the Program and other County contracting initiatives.

Monitoring the Program and the County's progress towards the Annual Participation
Goals. The CC Director shall report on a quarterly and annual basis to the President
on the administration and operations of the Program.

 

The User Departments that receive appropriate delegation for project management.
contract management. and/or construction and/or design contract responsibility shall have the
following duties and responsibilities with regard to the Program:

(1) Assisting the CC Director with setting Proiect Speci?c Goals.

(2) Assisting in the identi?cation of available MBEs and WBEs. and providing other
assistance in meeting the Proiect Speci?c Goals.

(3) Performing other activities to support the Program.

Gathering and maintaining prime contracting and subcontracting data for those
contracts which they manage.

 

(5) Submitting subcontracting data as required to the CC Director.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 13

Sec. 34-292. Race- and gender-neutral measggs to ensure equal opportunities for all
contractors and subcontractors.

The Countv shall develop and use measures to facilitate the participation of all firms in
Countv construction contracting activities. These measures shall include. but are not limited to:

Arranging solicitation times for the presentations of bids. quantities. specifications:
and deliverv schedules to facilitate the participation of interested firm_s;

Segmenting. structuring or issuing contracts to facilitate the participation of MBEs.
WBEs and other Small Businesses;

to) Providing timelv information on contracting procedures. bid preparation and specific
contracting opportunities;

Providing assistance to Business in overcoming barriers such as difiieultv in obtaining
bonding and ?nancing;

 

Holding pro?bid conferences, where appropriate. to explain the proiects and to
encourage Contractors to use all available quali?ed ?rms as subcontractors;

Adopting prompt pavment procedures. including. requiring bv contract that prime
Contractors paV subcontractors;

Reviewing retainage. bonding and insurance requirements to eliminate unnecessarv
barriers to contracting with the County;

(it) Collecting information front all prime Contractors on County construction contracts
detailing the bids received from all subcontractors for County construction contracts and the
expenditures to subcontractors utilized bv prime Contractors on Countv construction contracts;

(it At the discretion of the CC Director. letting a representative sample of Countv
construction contracts without goals. to determine MBE and WBE utilization in the absence of

goals;

ti) Maintaining information on all firms bidding on County prime contracts and
subcontracts and

 

Referring complaints of discrimination to Cook Countv's Commission on Human
Relations. or other appropriate authority. for investigation.

Sec. 34-293. Program eligibility.

Onlv Businesses that meet the criteria for certification as a an MBE or WEE mav
participate in the Program. The applicant has the burden of persuasion bv a preponderance of the
evidence.

Onlv a firm owned bv a Socially and Economicallv Disadvantaged persont?s'} may be
certi?ed as an MBE or WBE.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 14

(ll The ?rm's ownership by a Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person must be

to)

real. substantial, and continuing. going beyond pro Forma ownership of the ?rm as
re?ected in ownership documents. The must enjoy the customary incidents
of ownership and share in the risks and pro?ts commensurate with that ownership
interest.

The contributions of capital or Expertise by the Socially and Economically
Disadvantaged owner(s) to acquire the ownership interest must be real and
substantial. If Expertise is relied upon as part of a Socially and Economically
Disadvantaged owner's contribution to acquire ownership. the Expertise must be of
the requisite quality generally recognized in a specialized ?eld. in areas critical to the
?rm's operations. indispensable to the lirm's potential success. speci?c to the type of
work the ?rm performs and documented in the ?rm's records. The individual whose

Expertise is relied upon must have a commensurate ?nancial investment in the ?rm.

Only a ?rm that is managed and controlled by a Socially and Economically

Disadvantaged person(s) may be certi?ed as a MBE or WBE.

(1)

A ?rm must not be subiect to any formal or informal restrictions that limit the
customary discretion of the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts].
There can be no restrictions through corporate charter provisions. by-law provisions.
contracts or any other formal or informal devices that prevent the Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged ownerts}. without the cooperation or vote of any non-
Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person. from making any business
decision of the ?rm. including the making of obligations or the disbursing of funds.

The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts?) must possess the power to





direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the ?rm and to make
day-today as well as long-term decisions on management. policy. operations and
work.

The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownertsl may delegate various areas

of the management or daily operations of the ?rm to persons who are not Socially
and Economically Disadvantaged. Such delegations of authority must be revocable.
and the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerfs) must retain the power to
hire and [ire any such person. The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged
owner(s) must actually exercise control over the ?rm's operations, work.
management and policy.

The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts) must have an overall
understanding of. and managerial and technical competence. exocrience and
Expertise. directly related to the ?rm's operations and work. The Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged ownerfsl must have the ability to intelligently and
critically evaluate information presented by other participants in the ?rm?s activities
and to make independent decisions concerning the ?rm's daily operations. work.
management. and policymaking.

(5) If federal. state andr?or local laws. regulations or statutes require the to have

a particular license or other credential to own and/or control a certain type of ?rm.
then the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts) must possess the

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 15

required license or credential. 1f state law, County ordinance or other law regulations
or statute does not require that the owner posses the license or credential. that the
ownerts) lacks such license or credential is a factor. but is not dispositive. in
determining whether the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts} actually
magma

(6) A Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner cannot engage in outside
employment or other business interests that con?ict with the management of the ?rm
or prevent the owner from devoting suf?cient time and attention to the affairs of the
?rm to manage and control its day to day activities.

Only an independent firm may be certi?ed as a MBE or WBE. An independent ?rm is
one whose viability does not depend on its relationship with another firm. Recognition of an
applicant as a separate entity for tax or corporate purposes is not necessarily suf?cient to
demonstrate that a rm is independent and non- Af?liated. In determining whether an applicant Is
an independent Business. the CC Director will:

(I) Scrutinize relationships with non-Certi?ed Firms in such areas as personnel. facilities.
equipment. ?nancial and/or bonding support, and other resources.

Consider whether present or recent employer/employee relationships between the
Socially and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts) of the applicant and non-
Certified Firms or persons associated with non-Certi?ed Firms compromise the
applicant's independence.

Examine the applicant's relationships with non-Certi? ed Firms to determine whether a
pattern of exclusive or primary dealings with non-Celti?ed Firm compromises the
applicant's independence.

 

Consider the consistency of relationships between the applicant and non-Certi?ed
Firms with normal industry practice.

[e?I An applicant shall be certi?ed only for speci?c types of work in which the Socially
and Economically Disadvantaged ownerts) has the ability and Expertise to manage and control
the ?rm's operations and work.

if) The County shall certify the eligibility of Joint Ventures involving MBEs or WBEs
and non? ?Certitied Firms vi adj mam?bme 
MBE or WEE. be considered an eligible .loint Venture, at least one partner of the Joint
VentuIe must be a Certi?ed Firm. with a share in the capital contribution. control. management
risks. and pro?ts of the Joint Venture which is equal to its ownership interest. Each Certi?ed Firm
partner must contribute property. capital. efforts. skill and knowledge and be responsible for a
distinct. clearly de?ned portion of the work of the contract. Joint Ventures must have an
agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the relationships between the partners
and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.

In lieu of conducting its own certi?cations. the CC Director by rule may accept
formal certi?cations by other entities as meeting the requirements of the Program. if the CC
Director determines that the certi?cation standards of such entities are comparable to those of the

County.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23., 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 16

The certi?cation status ofall MBES and WBEs shall be reviewed periodically by the
Of?ce of Contract Compliance. Failure of the ?rm to seek by ?ling the necessary
documentation with the CC Director as provided by rule may result in deccrtification.

It is the responsibility of the Certi?ed .Firm to notify the CC Director of any change in
its circumstances affecting its continued eligibility for the Program. including deccrti?cation by
another agency. Failure to do so may result in the ?rm's decerti?cation.

The CC Director shall decertifyr a ?rm that does not continuously meet the eligibility
criteria.

by another agency shall create a prima facie case for decertificatiun by
the County. The challenged firm shall have the burden of proving that its County certi?cation
should be maintained.

A ?rm that has been denied certi?cation or recerti?cation or has been decerti?ed may
protest the denial or decerti?cation as provided by rule.

A ?rm found to be ineligible may not apply for certi?cation for six months a?er
the effective date of the ?nal decision.

no A third party may challenge the eligibility of an applicant for certi?cation or a
Certified Firm as provided by rule. Such challenges shall be signed and sworn by the individual
challenging the eligibility of an applicant for certi?cation or a certi?ed form. The burden of proof
shall rest with the complainant. Such challenges to eligibility shall be subieet to an appeal. The
CC Director shall be the ?nal arbiter of all challenges. The presumption that the challenged ?rm
is eligible shall remain in effect until the CC Director renders a ?nal decision.

Sec. 34-294. Annual aspirational goals.

The Annual Aspirational Goals for the utilization of MBEs and WBEs on County Public
Works contracts and subcontracts shall be twenty~four (24% percent for MBEs and ten 

percent for WBEs.
Sec. 34?295. Project speci?c goajlsg

The CC Director. in consultation with the User Department. shall establish Proicct
Speci?c Goals for construction Contracts based upon the availability of at least three MBEs and
three WBEs to perform the anticipated subcontracting functions of the proiect and the Coungr'_s
utilization of MBEs and WBEs to date.

Sec. 34-296. Counting MBE and WBE participation.

entire amount of that portion of a contract that is performed by the MBEs or
WB Es own forces shall be counted. including the cost of supplies and materials obtained by the
MBE or WBE for the work ofn the contract and supplies purchased or equipment leased by the
MBE or WBE (except supplies and equipment the MBE or WBE purchases or leases from the
prime Contractor or the prime Contractor's Af?liate).

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 17

b} The entire amount of fees or commissions charged by a MBE or WBE for providing a
bona tide service. such as professional. technical. consultant or managerial services. or for
providing bonds or insurance specifically required for tlte performance of a contract. shall be
counted. provided the fee is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily
charged for similar services.

When a MBE or WEE performs as a participant in a Joint Venture. only the portion of
the total dollar value of the contract equal to the distinct. clearly defined portion of the work of
the Joint Venture's contract that is performed by the MBE or WEE with its own forces and for
which it is separately at risk. shall be counted.

Only expenditures to a MBE or WEE that is perfonning a Commercially Useful
Function shall be counted. To determine whether a MBE or WBF. is performing a Commercially
Useful Function. the County will evaluate the amount of work subcontracted. industry practices.
whether the amount the MBE or WBE is to be paid under the contract is commensurate with the
work it is actually performing and other relevant Factors. To perform a Commercially Useful
Function, the MBE or WEE must be responsible. with respect to materials and supplies used on
the contract. for negotiating price. determining duality and quantity. ordering the material.
installing (where applicable) and paying for the material itself. A MBE er WEE does not perform
a Commercially Useful Function if its role is limited to that of an extra participant in the contract
through which funds are passed in order to obtain the appearance of MBE or WE participation.
if a MBE or WEE subcontracts a greater portion of the work of a contract than would be expected
based on normal industry practice. it is presumed not to perform a Commercially Useful
Function. When a MBE or WBE is presumed not to be performing a Commercially Useful
Function, the Certi?ed Firm may present evidence to rebut this presumption.

One hundred percent of the cost of the materials or supplies obtained from a MBE or
WBF. Manufacturer or Regular Dealer shall be counted. One hundred percent of the fees or
transportation charges for the delivery of materials or supplies required on a iob site shall be
counted only if the payment of such fees is a customary industry practice and are commensurate
with fees customarily charged for similar services.

If a ?rm ceases to be a Certi?ed Firm for any other reason than graduation from the
MIWBE Construction Program during its performance on a contract. the dollar value of work
performed under a contract with that ?rm after it has ceased to be certified shall not be counted.

In determining achievement of Proiect Specific Goals. the participation of a MBE or
WBE shall not be counted until that amount has been paid to the MBE or WBE.

Sec. 34-297. Contract ore-award compliance procedures.

For all solicitations. the bidderfproposcr shall submit a Utilization Plan detailing all
subcontractors from which the Contractor solicited bids or quotations. and if Proiect Speci?c
Goals have been established. its achievement of the Goals or its Good Faith Efforts to do so. The
Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid proposal is due.

Any agreement between a Contractor and a MBE or WBE in which the Contractor
[eguires that the MBE or WEE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is

prohibited.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 18

tel Where the Contractor cannot achieve the Proiect Specific Goalts}. the CC Director
will determine whether the Contractor has made Good Faith Efforts to meet the Goalt?s]. In
making this determination. the Director will consider. at a minimum. the Contractor's elicits to:

Solicit through all reasonable and available means attendance at pre~bid
meetings. advertising and written notices} the interest of all MBlis and WBEs
certi?ed in the scopes of work of the contract. The Contractor shall provide interested
MBES and WBEs with timelv. adequate information about the plans. speci?cations.
and requirements of the contract to allow MBES and WBEs to respond to the
solicitation. The Contractor must follow up initial solicitations with interested MBEs
apd WBEs.

Select portions of the work to be performed bv M3135 and WBEs in order to increase
the likelihood that the Proiect Speci?c Goals will be achieved. This includes. where
appropriate. breaking out contract work items into economicallv Feasible units to
facilitate MBE and WBE participation. even when the Contractor would otherwise
prefer to perform these work items with its own forces. It is the Contractor's
responsibility to make a portion of the work available to MBES and WBES and to
select those portions of the work or material needs consistent with the availability
MBES and WBEs to facilitate their participation.

(3) Negotiate in good faith with interested MBES and WBEs. Evidence of such
negotiation includes the names. addresses. and telephone numbers of MBES and
WBEs that were contacted; a description of the information provided regarding the
p_lans and speci?cations for the work selected for subcontracting; and 
agreements could not be reached with MBEs and WBEs. The Contractor mav not
rcicct MBEs and W883 as being unquali?ed without sound reasons based on a
thorough investigation of their capabilities. That there may be some additional costs
involved in ?nding and using MBES and WEI-3's is not in itself suf?cient reason for a
Contractor's failure to meet the Proiect Speci?c Goals. as long as such costs are
reasonable. The ability or desire of a Contractor to perform the work of a contract
with its own organization does not relieve it of the responsibility to make Good Faith
Efforts on all scopes of work that could be subcontracted.

(4) Make efforts to assist interested MBES and WBEs in obtaining bonding. lines of
credit. or insurance as required by the County or the prime Contractor. where

appropriate.

(5) Make efforts to assist interested MBES and WBEs in obtaining necessary equipment.
supplies. materials. or related assistance or services. where appropriate.

Use the services of the Office of Contract Compliance. available minoritvfwomen
communitv organizations. minoritvtwomen contractors? groups. government
sponsored minority/women business assistance of?ces and other appropriate
organizations to provide assistance in the recruitment and placement of MBES and
WBEs.

(ed) In determining whether a Contractor has made Good Faith Efforts. the performance
of other Contractors in meeting the Proiect Speci?c Goals mav be considered. For example. when
the apparent successful Contractor fails to meet the Proiect Speci?c Goals but others meet it. it

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 19

may be reasonably questioned whether. with additional reasonable efforts. the apparent successful
Contractor could have met the Project Speci?c Goals. Similarly. if the apparent successful
Contractor fails to meet the Project Speci?c Goals. but meets or exceeds the average MBE or
WEE participation obtained by other Contractors. this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Contractor made Good Faith Efforts.

A signed letter of intent from each listed MBE or WBE. describing the work.
materials. equipment or services to be performed or provided by the MBE or WBE and the agreed
upon dollar value shall be due at the time of bid proposal or within three days after such
submission.

fat] The CC Director shall timely review the Utilization Plan before award. includinm
scope of work and the letters of intent from MBE-Ls and WBEs. The CC Director may request
clari?cation in writhig of items listed in the Utilization Plan, provided such clari?cation shall not
include the opportunity to augment listed participation or Good Faith Efforts.

(lag) If the CC Director determines that the Utilization Plan demonstrates that the Proiect
Speci?c Goals have been achieved or Good Faith Efforts made. with the concurrence of the User
Department. the CC Director and User Department shall recommend award to Purchasing Agent

943%

(Eh) If the CC Director ?nds that a Contractor did not make suf?cient Good Faith Effo?.
the CC Director shall communicate this ?nding to the Heer=Purchasing Department and
recommend that the bidfproposal be rejected. A Contractor may protest this determination
msuant to the County's bid protest procedures.

Sec. 34?-298. Contract administration procedures.

Upon award of a contract by the County that includes Proiect Speci?c Goals. the
Proiect Speci?c Goals become covenants of performance by the Contractors and incorporated in
the contract.

lb} The Contractor shall provide a listing of all subcontractors to be used in the
performance of the contract. and detailed subcontractor information to the County with each
request for payment submitted to the County or as otherwise directed by the County. The CC
Director and the User Department shall monitor subcontractor participation during the course of
the contract. The County shall have full and timely access to the Contractor?s books and records.
including without limitation payroll records. tax returns and records and books of account. to
determine the Contractor's compliance with its commitment to MBE and WEE participation and
the status of any MBE or WEE performing any portion of the contract. This provision shall be in
addition to. and not a substitute for. any other provision allowing inspection of the Contractor's
records by any of?cer or of?cial of the County for any purpose.

to) The Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization Plan or substitute MBEs or
WBEs named in the Utilization Plan without the prior written approval of the CC Director.
Purchasing Agent and the User Department. Unauthorized changes or substitutions shall be a
violation of this subdivision and a breach of contract. and may constitute grounds for reiection of
the bid or proposal or cause termination of the executed contract for breach. the withholdingpl~
payment andfor subject the Contractor to contract penalties or other sanctions.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 20

(1) All requests for changes or substitutions of a MBE or WBE Subcontractor(s) named
in the Utilization Plan shall be made to the CC Director. Purchasing Agent and the
User Department in writing. and shall clearly and fully set forth the basis for the
request. A Contractor shall not substitute a MBE. or WBE subcontractor or perform
the work designated for a MBE 0r WBE subcontractor with its own forces unless and
until the CC Director. Purchasing Agent in consultation with the User Department.
approves such substitution in writing. A Contractor shall not allow a substituted
subcontractor to begin work until both the Director. Purchasing Agent and the User
Department have approved the substitution.

The facts supporting the request must not have been known nor reasonably should
have been known by either party before the submission of the Utilization Plan. Bid
shopping is prohibited. The Contractor must negotiate with the MBE or WBE
subcontractor to resolve the problem. Where there has been a mistake or
disagreement about the scope of worksubstituted only
where an agreement cannot be reached for a reasonable price for the correct scope of
work.

Substitutions of the subcontractor shall be permitted only on the following bases:
Unavailability after receipt of reasonable notice to proceed.
(ii) Failure of performance.

Financial incapacity.

 

(iv) Refusal bv the subcontractor to honor the bid or proposal price.

Mistake of fact or law about the elements of the scope of work of a
solicitation where agreement upon a reasonable price cannot be reached.

(vi) Failure of the subcontractor to meet insurance, licensing or bonding
requirements; or

(vii) The subcontractor's withdrawal of its bid or proposal.

The ?nal decision whether to permit or deny the proposed substitution. and the basis
of any denial. shall be communicated to the parties in writing by the CC Director.

(5) Where the Contractor has established the basis for the substitution to the satisfaction
of the County. the Contractor shall make Good Faith Efforts to ful?ll the Utilization
Plan. The Contractor may seclt the assistance of the Of?ce of Contract Compliance in
obtaining a new MBE or WBE. if the Proiect Specific Goalts} cannot be reached and
Good Faith Efforts have been made. the Contractor may substitute with a non-
Certified Firm.

(6) If the County requires the substitution of a MBE or WBE subcontractor listed in the
Utilization Plan, the Contractor shall undertake Good Faith Efforts to ful?ll the
Utilization Plan. The Contractor may seek the assistance of the Of?ce of Contract
Compliance in obtaining a new MBE or WBE subcontractor. If the Goalts) cannot be

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 21

reached and Good Faith Efforts have been made. the Contractor may substitute with a
non-Certi?ed Firm.

If a Contractor plans to hire a subcontractor on any scope of work that was not
previouslv disclosed in the Utilization Plan. the Contractor shall obtain the approval of the CC
Director to modify the Utilization Plan and must make Good Faith Efforts to ensure that MBES
and WBEs have a fair opportunity to bid on the new scope of work.

Changes to the scopes of work shall be documented by the User Department at the
time they arise to establish the reasons for the change and the effect on achievement of the MBE

or WBE goal.

Prior to contract closeout. the CC Director shall evaluate the Contractor's ful?llment

of the contracted goals. taking into account all approved substitutions. terminations and changes
to the contract's scope of work. If the County determines that Good Faith Efforts to meet the
MBE or WBE commitments were not made. or that fraudulent misrepresentations have been
made. or any other breach of the contract or Violation of this subdivision. a remedy or sanction
may be imposed. as provided in the contract.

Sec. 34-299. Sanctio?ns and penalties.
The following violations of this subdivision may result in a breach of contract:

(I) Providing false or misleading information to the Countv in connection with
submission of a bid. responses to requests for quali?cations or proposals, Good Faith
Efforts documentation. post award compliance. or other Program operations.

(2) Committing any other violations of this subdivision.

A Contractor or subcontractor is subiect to withholding of payments under the
contract. termination of the contract for breach. contract penalties. or being barred or deemed
non-responsive in future Countv solicitations and contracts as determined bv the Countv's
Purchasing Agent. if it is found to have:

1) Provided false or misleading information in connection with an application for
certi?cation or recerti?cation or colluded with others to do so;

(2) Provided false or misleading information in connection with the submission of a bid
or proposal or documentation of Good Faith Efforts. post-award compliance. or other
Program operations or colluded with others to do so;

(3) Failed in bad faith to ful?ll Proiect Speci?c Goals. thereby materially breaching the
contract; or

(4) Failed to comply in good faith with substantive provisions of this subdivision.

Sec. 34-300. Program review and sunset.

(at) The President and the Board of Commissioners shall receive ouatterlv and annual
reports from the CC Director detailing the Countv's performance under the Program.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 22

(bi The President and the Board of Commissioners will review these reports, including
the Annual Participation Goals and the County's progress towards meeting those Goals and
eliminating discrimination in its contracting activities and marketplace.

to) Within fivewvears alter the effective date ofthis ordinance, the Countv will review the
operation of the Program and the cvidentiary basis for the Program in order to determine whether
it the Countv has a continuing compelling interest in remedving discrimination against MBES and
WBEs in its construction marketplace. and the permissible scope of any narrowly tailored
remedies to redress discrimination against MBEs or WBEs so that the Countv will not function as
a passive participant in a discriminatorv marketplace.

This subdivision shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.

DIVISION 9. CONTRACT MANAGEMENT

Sec. 34-300; . Contracts

Purpose. The purpose of this Division is to ensure that Contracts in an amount of
$1,000,000.00 or more are performed in accordance with the Contract terms.

Applicability. This Division shall only apply to Contracts of $1,000,000.00 or more.

(0) Funding. The extent to which this division shall be implemented shall be limited to
the availability of funding. The Board encourages the County to seek out any available grant
funding for this initiative.

Sec. 34-30}; Information to be contained in Contracts

All Contracts over $1,000,000.00 should contain, but not be limited to, the following
information, as applicable:

Clearly state the speci?cations, contract period, allowable renewals or extension
periods, and procedures for amendments or changes;

Provide for speci?c measurable deliverables and reporting requirements, including
due dates;

Describe any payment schedules and escalation factors;
Contain performance standards;
Tie payments to the acceptance of deliverables or the ?nal product;

Contain all standard or required clauses as published in an RFP. Order of precedence
should be addressed in case of a discrepancy between the RFP and the Contract;

Contain appropriate signatures, approvals, acknowledgements, or witnesses; and

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 23

Be reviewed and approved as to form by an attorney from the Cook County State?s
Attorney?s Of?ce prior to execution.

Sec. 34-302; Contract management for Contracts.
Using Agency responsibilities are as follows:

(1) Designate one or more individuals as the ?Contract Manager? with the knowledge,
skills, ability and time to monitor the Contract;

(2) The CPO may provide staff to assist the Using Agency in complying with this
division.

Contract Manager's duties:
(1) Monitor performance of the Contract in accordance with its terms;
(2) Track budgets and compare invoices and charges to contract terms and conditions;

(3) Document the timeliness and acceptance or rejection of deliverables and initiate
appropriate action to enforce the Contract terms; and

(4) Evaluate and document compliance with Contract requirements on a periodic basis
during the term of the Contract and submit to the CPO.

duties:

(1) Create uniform evaluation forms for use by Contract Managers, to evaluate the extent
to which the Contractor satis?ed the Contract terms;

(2) Establish appropriate procedures to ensure that evaluations are utilized in determining
whether a Bidder or Proposer is Responsible; provided, however, that evaluations made only
within the past three years shall be considered;

(3) Assist Using Agencies in obtaining training through the National Contract Managers
Association, Institute of Supply Management or National Institute of Government Purchasing
standards, for Contract Managers.

DIVISION 10. INVOICES FOR SERVICES RENDERED

Sec. 34-310. Invoices required for all service Contracts.

 
  



  

Work Performed. All Contracts for =s?ervices, regardless
of compensation structure, shall contain a provision requiring the Contractor to maintain and
submit for review upon request by the Using Agency, itemized records indicating the dates that
services were provided, a detailed description of the work performed on each such date, and the
amount of time spent performing work on each such date.

 

 

Expenses. Contracts for s?ervices shall
also require Contractors to submit documentation of the types and amounts of

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 24

expenses incurred related to the work performed if the Contractor seeks
reimbursement for any such expenses incurred.

Invoice Documentation. All Contracts for sServices,
regardless of compensation structure, shall contain a provision requiring the Contractor to submit
itemized records indicating the dates or time period 1n which the services being invoiced were
provided, a detailed description of the work performed for the time period being invoiced and the
amount of? time spent performing work for the time period 1n question. In addition, all Contracts

- . - - sServices that are procured as Sole Source must also contain a
provision requiring the Contractor to submit itemized records indicating the dates that services
were provided, a detailed description of the work performed on each such date, and the amount of
time spent performing work on each such date.

 

 

 

(ed) Payment. All Contracts for - - - sServices shall further
require that the itemized work and expense records required 1n 34- 3 l0 and be submitted to
the Using Agency with the Contractor's invoice as a condition of payment for any_ mg

s?ervices rendered.

 

Sec. 34-311. No payment prior to submission of invoice.

The Comptroller shall not issue a payment to any Contractor providing Seem
sServices who has not submitted the requisite invoice with work and expense records
unless the Contractor has been approved for advance payment per the Contract. The Comptroller
shall not issue an advance payment to any Contractor providing - - - .
sServices unless the invoice includes written authorization from the Using Agency documenting
the contractual basis for the advance payment. Contractors approved for advance payment shall
be required to submit invoices providing work and expense records as described above in Section
34-310 on at least a basis.

 

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32
Fees, Section 32-] of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

 

Fees, Rates,

 

 

 

Charges (in
Description dollars)
34-283 
Certi?cation Fee $20?0.00
34-283
Recerti?cation Fee $100.00
3 4 2 83 E) 

Fee $50790

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 25

This amendment shall be effective immediately upon passage.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. Mary Kay Minaghan Women Construction Owners and Executives
2. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Defer
Communication No. 318664. Commissioner Steele called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and
nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Defer the Proposed Amendment
to (Communication No. 318664)

Yeas: Commissioners Butler and Suffredin (2)

Nays: Chairman Daley, Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Murphy, Silvestri,
Steele and Tobolski (8)

Absent: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Collins, Fritchey, Goslin,
Reyes and Schneider (7)

The motion to Defer the Proposed Amendment to (Communication No. 318664) Failed.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Approve
Communication No. 318664 as Amended. The motion carried, and the Proposed
Amendment to the Cook County Ordinance was approved and adopted, as
amended.

Commissioner Butler voted No on Communication No. 318664.

318990 Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by TONI PRECKWINKLE, President,
JOHN P. DALEY, JOAN P. MURPHY, ROBERT B. STEELE, JESUS GARCLA,
LARRY SUFFREDIN, and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners.

Transmitting a Communication dated June 24, 2012 from Tariq G. Malhance, Chief
Financial Of?cer, respectfully submitting a Proposed Ordinance providing for the

issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, for your approval.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

 

AN ORDINANCE providing for the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds,
Series 2012, of the County of Cook, Illinois; the approval, execution, and
delivery of a Master Trust Indenture and of a First Supplemental Indenture;
and providing for other matters in connection with the issuance of the Series
2012 Bonds.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 26

Communication No. 318990 was amended by errata at the Board of
Commissioners meeting of July 10, 2012. The complete text of this item is
available on the website of the Secretary to the Board,


*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 7/10/12.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved Approval of
Communication No. 318990.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to further amend
Communication No. 318990. The motion carried, and Communication No. 318990 was
amended, as follows:

AMENDMENT TO COMMUNICATION NO. 318990
Before the
FINANCE OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
MEETING ON JULY 23, 2012
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, CHAIRMAN

AN ORDINANCE providing for the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, of
the County of Cook, Illinois; the approval, execution and delivery of a Master Trust
Indenture and of a First Supplemental Indenture: and providing for other matters in
connection with the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois (the ?Illinois Constitution?), the County of Cook, Illinois (the ?County?) is a home rule
unit of local government and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs, including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to
incur debt; and

WHEREAS, the County may also exercise powers relating to the power to tax and to incur debt
pursuant to the Counties Code, as supplemented and amended by the Local Government Debt
Reform Act of the State of Illinois (collectively, the and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the ?Corporate Authorities has not
adopted any ordinance, resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code provisions
which restrict or limit the exercise of the home rule powers of the County in the issuance of sales
tax revenue bonds for corporate purposes or which otherwise provide any special rules or
procedures for the exercise of such powers; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the inhabitants of the County and necessary for the
welfare of the government and affairs of the County to provide for ?nancing surface
transportation and highway improvements, including, but not limited to, arterial street and

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 27

highway construction and resurfacing, bridge and other structural improvements and repairs,
traf?c signal modernization, new traf?c signal installation and median construction (collectively,
the ?Series 2012 Project?); and

WHEREAS, the speci?c transportation and highway improvement projects initially constituting
the Series 2012 Project are as set forth on Exhibit A to this Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the costs of the Series 2012 Project are estimated to be not less than One Hundred
Million Dollars and

WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that it is advisable and necessary to
authorize the issuance of County of Cook, Illinois, Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012 (the
?Series 2012 Bonds?) for the following purposes: paying a portion of the costs of the Series
2012 Project; (ii) capitalizing interest payable on the Series 2012 Bonds to the extent determined
to be necessary as provided herein; funding a debt service reserve fund for the Series 2012
Bonds to the extent determined to be necessary as provided herein; and (iv) paying the expenses
of issuing the Series 2012 Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the County, by virtue of its constitutional home rule powers and all laws applicable
thereto has the power to issue the Series 2012 Bonds and such borrowing is for a proper public
purpose and in the public interest; and

WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that in connection with the issuance of
the Series 2012 Bonds it is advisable and necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of a
master trust indenture (the ?Master Indenture?), and one or more supplemental trust indentures
(collectively, the ?First Supplemental Indenture?); and

WHEREAS, while the Series 2012 Bonds will be secured by and payable from Pledged Sales
Tax Revenues, as de?ned and described in the Master Indenture, the County expects to use
moneys allotted to the County from the State Motor Fuel Tax Fund, as provided in Section 8 of
the Motor Fuel Tax Law (35 ILCS 505/1 et seq, as amended) (the ?County Motor Fuel Tax
Revenues?), to reimburse itself for all or portions of such Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as are
applied to pay debt service on the Series 2012 Bonds, with such reimbursement subject to
approval by the Illinois Department of Transportation pursuant to the provisions of
Division 7 of Article 5 of the Illinois Highway Code (605 ILCS 1/ 1-101 et seq, as amended); and

WHEREAS, the County wishes to request approval from to apply County Motor Fuel Tax
Revenues for the purposes described in the prior preamble.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, Illinois, as follows:

Section 1. Findings. The Corporate Authorities hereby ?nd that all of the recitals contained in
the preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct and do hereby incorporate them into this
Ordinance by this reference. It is hereby found and determined that the Corporate Authorities
have been authorized by law to issue the Series 2012 Bonds to pay the costs of the Series 2012
Project. It is hereby found and determined that such borrowing of money pertains to the
government and affairs of the County, is necessary for the welfare of the government and affairs
of the County, is for a proper public purpose or purposes and is in the public interest, and is
authorized pursuant to the Act; and these ?ndings and determinations shall be deemed conclusive.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 28

The issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds is authorized by the Illinois Constitution and the Act and
the Series 2012 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Illinois Constitution and the Act.

Section 2. Issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds.

There shall be authorized the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of not to exceed One Hundred Twenty-?ve Million Dollars ($125,000,000) plus an
amount equal to the amount of any original issue discount used in the marketing of the Series
2012 Bonds (not to exceed ten percent of the principal amount thereof) for the purposes
described in the preambles to this Ordinance. The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued from time to
time in said aggregate principal amount, or such lesser aggregate principal amount as may be
determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer of the County (it being hereby expressly provided that
in the event of a vacancy in the of?ce of Chief Financial Of?cer or the absence or temporary or
permanent incapacity of the Chief Financial Of?cer, the of?cer so designated by the President
shall be authorized to act in the capacity of the Chief Financial Of?cer for all purposes of this
Ordinance). Each of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be designated ?Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series
2012?, with such additions, modi?cations or revisions as shall be determined to be necessary by
the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of the sale and having any other authorized features
determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer as desirable to be re?ected in the title of the Series
2012 Bonds.

The Bonds shall be issued and secured pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Master
Trust Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture but within the limitations prescribed in this
Ordinance. The Master Trust Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture are both to be
entered into between the County and such trustee having its principal corporate trust of?ce
located within the County (the ?Trustee?) as shall be selected by the President or the Chief
Financial Of?cer. The President and the Chief Financial Of?cer are each hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Master Trust Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture on behalf of
the County, such Master Trust Indenture to be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
B, and such First Supplemental Indenture to be in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit C, and each is made a part hereof and hereby approved with such changes therein as shall
be approved by the President or Chief Financial Of?cer executing the same, with such execution
to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval and the Corporate Authorities? approval of any
changes or revisions therein from the form attached hereto. All capitalized terms used in this
Ordinance without de?nition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Master Trust
Indenture, or the First Supplemental Indenture. The President and the Chief Financial Of?cer are
each hereby authorized to act as an Authorized Of?cer for the purposes provided in the Master
Trust Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture.

The Master Trust Indenture shall set forth such covenants with respect to the imposition and
application of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as shall be deemed necessary by the Chief
Financial Of?cer in connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds
shall be executed by the of?cers of the County and prepared in the form as provided in the First
Supplemental Indenture, with such changes therein as shall be approved by the President or the
Chief Financial Of?cer executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence
of their approval and the Corporate Authorities? approval of any changes or revisions therein
from the form attached thereto.

The principal of the Series 2012 Bonds shall become due and payable on or before the later
of: November 15, 2042 or (ii) the date which 30 years after the date of issuance of the Series

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 29

2012 Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be dated no earlier than August 1, 2012 and not later
than the date of issuance thereof, as shall be provided in the First Supplemental Indenture (any
such date for any Bonds being the ?Dated Date?). The Series 2012 Bonds that are Current
Interest Bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates not to exceed seven percent per annum as
determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of the sale thereof. The Series 2012 Bonds
that are Capital Appreciation Bonds or Capital Appreciation and Income Bonds shall have yields
to maturity (as de?ned below) not to exceed seven percent per annum as determined by the
Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of the sale thereof. Each Series 2012 Bond that is a Capital
Appreciation Bond or a Capital Appreciation and Income Bond shall bear interest from its date at
the rate per annum compounded semiannually on each May 15 and November 15, commencing
on such May 15 or November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of sale
thereof that will produce the yield to maturity identi?ed therein until the maturity date thereof
(the ?Yield to Maturity?). Interest on the Series 2012 Bonds that are Capital Appreciation Bonds
shall be payable only at the respective maturity dates thereof. Interest on the Series 2012 Bonds
that are Capital Appreciation and Interest Bonds shall be payable only on Interest Payment Dates
occurring after the Interest Commencement Date.

The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued as Fixed Rate or Variable Rate Bonds as provided in
the First Supplemental Indenture, all as determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of
the sale thereof. Interest rates on Variable Rate Bonds shall be established as provided in the
de?nition of Variable Rate Bonds in the Master Trust Indenture and speci?ed Series 2012 Bonds
issued as Variable Rate Bonds may bear interest at rates that differ from the rates borne by other
Series 2012 Bonds issued as Variable Rate Bonds and may have different optional and mandatory
tender and purchase provisions. Any Series 2012 Bond that initially bears interest at a Variable
Rate may thereafter bear such other interest rate or rates as may be established in accordance with
the provisions of the related supplemental indenture.

The Series 2012 Bonds shall be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the County, in
whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressed as a
percentage of the principal amount of Series 2012 Bonds that are Current Interest Bonds being
redeemed and expressed as a percentage of the Accreted Amount of Series 2012 Bonds that are
Capital Appreciation Bonds being redeemed) not to exceed one hundred three percent 
plus, in the case of Series 2012 Bonds that are Current Interest Bonds, accrued interest to the date
of redemption, all as shall be determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of the sale
thereof. Certain of the Series 2012 Bonds may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at
par and accrued interest to the date ?xed for redemption, as determined by the Chief Financial
Of?cer at the time of the sale thereof; provided that the Series 2012 Bonds shall reach ?nal
maturity not later than the date set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.

Each Series 2012 Bond that is a Current Interest Bond shall bear interest (computed upon the
basis of a three hundred sixty (360) day year of twelve (12) thirty (30) day months) payable on
the ?fteenth days of May and November of each year, commencing on such May 15 and
November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer at the time of the sale thereof.

The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued in either certi?cated or book-entry only form as
determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer. In connection with the issuance of Series 2012 Bonds
in book-entry only form, the Chief Financial Of?cer is authorized to execute and deliver a
representation letter to the book?entry depository selected by the Chief Financial Of?cer in
substantially the form previously used in connection with obligations issued by the County in
book-entry form.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 30

Section 3. Sale of the Series 2012 Bonds; Bond Order; Financing Team; Execution of
Documents Authorized; Undertakings; Offering Materials; Credit Facilities; ISDA
Documents.

The Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to sell all or any portion of the Series 2012
Bonds to the Underwriters described in Section 3(0) below, from time to time, and in one or
more series, on such terms as he or she may deem to be in the best interests of the County;
provided that the Series 2012 Bonds shall not be sold at a purchase price that is less than ninety-
eight percent of the par amount of the Series 2012 Bonds (but exclusive of any net original
issue discount used in the marketing of the Series 2012 Bonds, which shall not exceed 10% of the
principal amount thereof), plus accrued interest, if any, on the Series 2012 Bonds from their
Dated Date to the date of their issuance. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale
of the Series 2012 Bonds, or any maturity or maturities thereof, at a price or prices in excess of
the principal amount thereof.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds on which the interest paid and
received is excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax
purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ?Code?) (except to the
extent that such interest is taken into account in computing an adjustment used in determining the
alternative minimum tax for certain corporations) (?Tax-Exempt Bonds?); or (ii) bonds on which
the interest paid and received is not excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof for
federal income tax purposes under the Code (?Taxable Bonds?). The Chief Financial Of?cer may
elect to use such title or designation as he or she shall deem appropriate to re?ect the federal tax
status of interest paid and received with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds as either Tax-Exempt or
Taxable.

The selection of the following party or parties in the capacity as indicated is hereby expressly
approved in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series 2012 Bonds:

Capacity Par_ty or Parties
Senior Manager Wells Fargo Bank, N. A.
Co-Senior Manager Rice Financial Products
Co-Managers Ramirez Co., Inc.
JP Morgan Securities LLC
BMO Capital Markets
PNC Capital Markets LLC
George K. Baum Company
Bond Counsel Mayer Brown LLP
Co-Bond Counsel Charity Associates PC.
Financial Advisor A.C. Advisory, Inc.
Underwriters? Counsel Ungaretti Harris LLP
Co-Underwriters? Counsel Greene and Letts

The President and the Chief Financial Of?cer are hereby expressly authorized and
directed to select the Trustee, their selection thereof to constitute approval by the Corporate
Authorities without further of?cial action by or direction from the Corporate Authorities. The
Trustee shall be a bank or corporate trust company having ?duciary powers.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 31

Subsequent to the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the Chief Financial Of?cer shall ?le in the
of?ce of the County Clerk a Bond Order, with a copy of the executed Master Trust Indenture and
the First Supplemental Indenture each attached and directed to the Corporate Authorities
identifying: the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds sold and the purchase
price at which the Series 2012 Bonds were sold; (ii) the principal amount of the Series 2012
Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory redemption in each year; the optional redemption
provisions applicable to the Series 2012 Bonds; (iv) the interest rate or rates payable on the Series
2012 Bonds; (V) the amount of the Series 2012 Bonds being sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds,
Capital Appreciation and Interest Bonds or Current Interest Bonds; (vi) the amount of Series 2012
Bonds being sold as Variable Rate Bonds; (vii) the Dated Date of the Series 2012 Bonds; 
the identity of any municipal bond insurer and of any provider of a debt service reserve fund
surety bond; (ix) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility; the federal income tax status
of the Series 2012 Bonds are either Tax Exempt or Taxable; (xi) the terms of any Quali?ed Swap
Agreement, including the identify of any Swap Provider; (xii) the identity of any remarketing
agent; the information regarding the title and designation of the Series 2012 Bonds; together
with (xiv) any other matter authorized by this Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial
Of?cer at the time of sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, and thereafter the Series 2012 Bonds so sold
shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner provided herein and delivered to the
respective Underwriters in accordance with the terms of sale.

The President, the Chief Financial Of?cer or any other of?cer, of?cial or employee of the
County so designated by a written instrument signed by the President or the Chief Financial
Of?cer and ?led with the Trustee (a ?Designated Of?cer?) are hereby authorized to execute such
documents, with appropriate revisions to re?ect the terms and provisions of the Series 2012
Bonds as authorized by this Ordinance and such other revisions in text as the President or the
Chief Financial Of?cer shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of
the Series 2012 Bonds, to effect the issuance and delivery and maintenance of the status of the
Series 2012 Bonds, including but not limited to:

the contract of purchase (the ?Purchase Contract?) by and between the
County and the Underwriters, which Purchase Contract shall be in form acceptable to the
Chief Financial Of?cer and as customarily entered into by the County;

(ii) the continuing disclosure undertaking (the ?Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking?), as approved by the Chief Financial Of?cer to effect compliance with Rule
1502-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, with such revisions as are deemed appropriate to re?ect the
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds as bonds secured by Pledged Sales Tax Revenues;

such certi?cation, tax returns and documentation as may be required by
Bond Counsel, including, speci?cally, a tax agreement, to render their opinion as to the
Tax Exempt status of Series 2012 Bonds; and

The execution thereof by such Designated Of?cers is hereby deemed conclusive evidence of
approval thereof with such changes, additions, insertions, omissions or deletions as such of?cers
may determine, with no further of?cial action of or direction by the Corporate Authorities.

When the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed and delivered on behalf of the
County, it will be binding on the County and the of?cers, agents, and employees of the County,
and the same are hereby authorized and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE32

such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of such
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as executed and delivered. Notwithstanding any other
provisions hereof, the sole remedies for failure to comply with any Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking shall be the ability of the bene?cial owner of any Series 2012 Bond to seek
mandamus or speci?c performance by court order, to cause to the County to comply with its
obligations thereunder.

Offering Materials. The preparation, use and distribution of a preliminary of?cial statement
and an of?cial statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds are hereby
authorized and approved. The President and Chief Financial Of?cer are each hereby authorized
to execute and deliver an of?cial statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2012
Bonds on behalf of the County, in substantially the form previously used by the County with
such revisions as the President or the Chief Financial Of?cer shall determine are necessary or
required in connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds.

In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, if determined by the President or the
Chief Financial Of?cer to be in the best ?nancial interest of the County, the Chief Financial
Of?cer is authorized to procure one (1) or more municipal bond insurance policies covering all or
a portion of the Series 2012 Bonds and to procure one (1) or more debt service reserve fund
surety bonds for deposit into the Series 2012 Debt Service Reserve Subaccount.

In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Of?cer is hereby authorized to obtain a Credit Facility with one or more ?nancial institutions.
The President or the Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement
agreement and to execute and issue a promissory note in connection with the provisions of each
Credit Facility. Any Credit Facility and any reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially
the form of the credit facilities and reimbursement agreements previously entered into by the
County in connection with the sale of general obligation bonds or notes, but with such revisions
in text as the President or the Chief Financial Of?cer shall determine are necessary or desirable,
the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial Of?cer to evidence the approval by
the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions. The annual fee paid to any ?nancial institution
that provides a Credit Facility shall not exceed two percent of the average principal
amount of such Series 2012 Bonds outstanding during such annual period. The ?nal form of
reimbursement agreement entered into by the County with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds shall
be attached to the Bond Order ?led with the County Clerk pursuant to this Section. Any
promissory or similar note delivered in connection with any such reimbursement agreement shall
mature not later than the ?nal maturity date of the Bonds and each such promissory or similar
note shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding 15 (?fteen) percent per annum. The President or
the Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement
agreement.

In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Of?cer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver from time to time one or more ?Quali?ed
Swap Agreements? (as de?ned in the Master Indenture) with Swap Providers (as de?ned in the
Master Indenture) selected by the Chief Financial Of?cer. The stated aggregate notional amount
under all such agreements authorized hereunder shall not exceed the principal amount of the
Series 2012 Bonds issued hereunder (net of offsetting transactions entered into by the County).
Any such agreement to the extent practicable shall be in substantially the form of either the Local
Currency - Single Jurisdiction version or the Multicurrency-Cross Border version of the 1992
ISDA Master Agreement accompanied by the US. Municipal Counterparty Schedule published

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 33

by the International Swap Dealers Association (the or any successor form to be
published by the ISDA, and in the appropriate con?rmations of transactions governed by that
agreement, with such insertions, completions and modi?cations thereof as shall be approved by
the of?cer of the County executing the same, his or her execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of the Corporate Authorities? approval of such insertions, completions and
modi?cations thereof. Amounts payable by the County under any such agreement (being ?Swap
Payments?) shall constitute operating expenses of the County payable from any moneys,
revenues, receipts, income, assets or funds of the County available for such purpose or be payable
from the sources pledged to the payment of the Series 2012 Bonds, as the Chief Financial Of?cer
may from time to time determine. Such amounts shall not constitute an indebtedness of the
County for which its full faith and credit is pledged. Nothing contained in this Section shall limit
or restrict the authority of the President or the Chief Financial Of?cer to enter into similar
agreements pursuant to prior or subsequent authorization of the Corporate Authorities.

In connection with the sale of any Series 2012 Bonds issued as Variable Rate Bonds, the
President or the Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver a
Remarketing Agreement relating to the Series 2012 Bonds in substantially the form previously
used for similar ?nancings of the County, with appropriate revisions in text as the President or the
Chief Financial Of?cer shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the
President or the Chief Financial Of?cer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of
all such revisions. The President or the Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby delegated the authority
to appoint a remarketing agent with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds in the manner provided in
the First Supplemental Indenture.

Section 4. Alternative Allocation of Proceeds of Series 2012 Bonds. The County by its
Corporate Authorities reserves the right, as it becomes necessary from time to time, to change the
purposes of expenditure of the Series 2012 Bonds, to change priorities, to revise cost allocations
among expenditures and to substitute projects, in order to meet current needs of the County;
subject, however, to the provisions of the Act and to the tax covenants of the County relating to
the Tax Exempt status of interest on Tax Exempt Bonds and further subject to the provisions of
the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture regarding amendments thereto. To
the extent any action of the County described in the prior sentence is proposed to be taken with
respect to the proceeds of Tax Exempt Bonds, it shall be conditioned on receipt by the County of
an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect that such action shall not cause the interest on such
Bonds to become subject to federal income taxation.

Section 5. Reimbursement. None of the proceeds of the Tax Exempt Bonds will be used
to pay, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, for an expenditure that has been paid by the
County prior to the date hereof except architectural, engineering costs or construction costs
incurred prior to commencement of the Series 2012 Project or expenditures for which an intent to
reimburse was properly declared under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2. This Ordinance is
in itself a declaration of of?cial intent under Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2 as to all costs
of the Series 2012 Project paid after the date hereof and prior to issuance of the Series 2012
Bonds.

Section 6. Tax Covenant. With respect to any Tax Exempt Bonds, the County covenants
to take any action required by the provisions of Section 148(f) of the Code in order to assure
compliance with Section 709 of the Master Indenture. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall
limit the ability of the County to issue all or a portion of the Series 2012 Bonds as bonds the
interest on which will be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 34

tax purposes under the Code if determined by the Chief Financial Of?cer to be in the best interest
of the County.

Section 7. Use of County Motor Fuel Tax Revenues. The Chief Financial Of?cer is
hereby authorized to submit to IDOT a request for approval by IDOT (the Request?) of
the County?s right to apply County Motor Fuel Tax Revenues as reimbursement for all or
portions of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as are applied to pay debt service on the Series 2012
Bonds to ?nance the Series 2012 Project. This Ordinance shall constitute the resolution required
by Section 5?403 of the Illinois Highway Code for the IDOT Request. The County
Superintendent of Highways (the ?Superintendent?) shall submit a certi?ed copy of this
Ordinance, together with all Exhibits, to IDOT and the Superintendent and the Chief Financial
Of?cer are authorized to provide IDOT with such additional documents or information as shall be
requested by IDOT in connection with the IDOT Request.

Section 8. Performance Provisions. The President, the Chief Financial Of?cer, the
County Clerk, for and on behalf of the County shall be, and each of them hereby is, authorized
and directed to do any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the
County under and pursuant to this Ordinance, the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental
Indenture, and the performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry
out the authority conferred by this Ordinance, the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental
Indenture, including but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of any of the
Series 2012 Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such of?cial of the County under this
Ordinance with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds upon the initial issuance thereof, but subject to
any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The President, the
Chief Financial Of?cer, the County Clerk and other of?cers, agents and employees of the County
are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the County, to
execute and deliver all papers, documents, certi?cates and other instruments that may be required
to carry out the authority conferred by this Ordinance, the Master Indenture and the First
Supplemental Indenture or to evidence said authority.

Section 9. Proxies. The President and the Chief Financial Of?cer may each designate
another to act as their respective proxy and to af?x their respective signatures to, in the case of
the President, each of Series 2012 Bonds, whether in temporary or de?nitive form, and to any
other instrument, certi?cate or document required to be signed by the President or the Chief
Financial Of?cer pursuant to this Ordinance, the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental
Indenture. In each case, each shall send to the County Board written notice of the person so
designated by each, such notice stating the name of the person so selected and identifying the
instruments, certi?cates and documents which such person shall be authorized to sign as proxy
for the President and the Chief Financial Of?cer, respectively. A written signature of the
President or the Chief Financial Of?cer, respectively, executed by the person so designated
underneath, shall be attached to each notice. Each notice, with signatures attached, shall be ?led
with the County Clerk. When the signature of the President is placed on an instrument, certi?cate
or document at the direction of the President in the speci?ed manner, the same, in all respects,
shall be as binding on the County as if signed by the President in person. When the signature of
the Chief Financial Of?cer is so af?xed to an instrument, certi?cate or document at the direction
of the Chief Financial Of?cer, the same, in all respects, shall be binding on the County as if
signed by the Chief Financial Of?cer in person.

Section 10. This Ordinance a Contract. The provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a
contract between the County and the registered owners of the Series 2012 Bonds, and no changes,

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 3 5

additions or alterations of any kind shall be made hereto, except as herein provided. This
Ordinance shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of State law Without reference to
its con?ict of law principles.

Section 11. Prior Inconsistent Proceedings. All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders,
or parts thereof, in con?ict with the provisions of this Ordinance, are to the extent of such con?ict
hereby repealed.

Section 12. Immunity of Of?cers and Employees of County. No recourse shall be had for
the payment of the principal of or premium or interest on any of the Bonds or for any claim based
thereon or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Ordinance contained against any
past, present or future elected or appointed of?cer, director, member, employee or agent of the
County, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the County or
any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or constitution or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such elected
or appointed of?cers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is hereby expressly
waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the passage of this Ordinance and the
issuance of such Series 2012 Bonds.

Section 13. Passage and Approval. Presented, Passed, Approved and Recorded by the
County of Cook, Illinois, a home rule unit of government, this 24th day of July, 2012.

Section 14. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
enactment.

Exhibits and referred to in this Ordinance read as follows:
Exhibit A: Proposed Highway Department Capital Plan, 2012-2014

Exhibit B: Master Trust Indenture
Exhibit C: First Supplemental Trust Indenture

Approved and adopted this 23th day of July 2012.

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

Chairman Daley entered into the record a letter of inquiry to Tariq Malhance, Chief
Financial Of?cer, along with a letter from Mr. Malhance containing his reply.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved Approval of
Communication No. 318990, as amended. The motion carried, and the Proposed Ordinance

providing for the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, was approved and
adopted, as amended.

319031 Transmitting a Communication, dated July 6, 2012 from

THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)

PAGE 36
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce
and

MARIA DE LOURDES COS S, Chief Procurement Of?cer

Requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Of?cer to enter into and
execute a contract with CBM Managed Services, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, for
Food Service for the Cook County Department of Corrections, Sheriff?s Women?s
Justice Programs, Boot Camp, Department of Reentry and Diversion and Court
Services.

Reason: On October 17, 2011, a Request for Proposal was issued for Food
Service Management for the Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce. The RFP
process was followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Proposals were received on November 30, 2011
and an evaluation process was conducted based on the evaluation
criteria outlined in the RFP document. It was determined that CBM
Managed Services offered the best value. Upon board approval, the
contract will be assigned to CBM Premier Management LLC as
indicated in their proposal. This will strengthen the local
participation within the structure of the team.

In addition CBM Managed Services also provided revenue
opportunities for both Cook County General Funds and Inmate
Welfare Funds.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $3 8,360,583.23. 212-223 $869,998.17; 230-231
$179,088.00; 235?223 $1,440,752.04; 23 6-223 $1,753,233.45; 239-223

$3 4,1 17,51 1.57 Accounts. Contract period: Thirty-Six months with three (3)
additional one?year renewal options.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2013, 2014, 2015 funds.
*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 7/10/12.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin moved to Approve
Communication No. 319031.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. Richard Prendergast, Attorney representing Aramark, LLC
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Gorman moved to Defer

Communication No. 319031 to the Finance Committee Meeting of September 10, 2012.
Commissioner Tobolski called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED ON JULY 24, 2012)

PAGE 37
Roll Call on Motion to Defer Communication No. 319031
to the Finance Committee Meeting of September 10, 2012.
Yeas: Commissioners Gainer, Gorman, Murphy, Silvestri and Steele (5)
Nays: Chairman Daley, Commissioners Butler, Garcia, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)
Absent: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Collins, Fritchey, Goslin,
Reyes and Schneider (7)
The motion to Defer Communication No. 319031 Failed.
Roll Call on Motion to Approve
Communication No. 319031
Yeas: Commissioners Butler, Garcia, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)
Nays: Commissioners Gainer, Gorman, Murphy, Silvestri and Steele (5)
Present: Chairman Daley (1)
Absent: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Collins, Fritchey, Goslin,
Reyes and Schneider (7)

The motion to Approve Communication No. 319031 Failed.
Chairman Daley recessed the meeting to Tuesday, July 24, 2012 at 10:00 am.

Chairman Daley reconvened the recessed meeting of July 23, 2012, on Tuesday, July 24, 2012 at
10:00 am.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin moved to reconsider the vote by
which Communication No. 319031 was not recommended for Approval. The motion
carried on a voice vote.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin moved to Approve
Communication No. 319031. A roll call vote was requested and the vote of yeas and nays
being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve
Communication No. 319031

Yeas: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider. Silvestri, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski
(13)

Nays: Commissioner Murphy (1)

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 23, 2012 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED 0N JULY 24, 2012)
PAGE 3 8

Present: Chairman Daley and Commissioner Fritchey (2)
Absent: Commissioner Collins (1)
The motion carried and Communication No. 319031 was Approved.

Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims moved to reconsider the vote by
which Communication No. 319031 was approved. The motion failed.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, moved to adjourn. The motion
carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 318664 Approve as amended
Communication Number 318990 Approve as amended
Communication Number 31903 1 Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance

i944 i
P. Daley, Chair?i/nan

 

Attest:

. 6

@thew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web
site on the Video Page at  mix/mlogrookcounwi 
proceed in Eslcou nw- boa 111- ideo-and-aud io/

118 N. Clark Street, Room 567 JOHN P. DALEY

Chicago, IL 60602 Chairman
312.603.4400 Of?ce Commttee on Fmance
312.603.6688 Fax

e-ma?: john.daley@cookcountyi1.gov

 

Commissioner 11th District
Cook County Board of Con-unissioners

July 11, 2012

Mr. Tariq Malhance

Chief Financial Of?cer

118 North Clark Street, Room 1127
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Mr. Malhance:

Please answer the following questions in reference to Item 11 on the Board Agenda for the Meeting of
July 10, 2012.

1. What are the chances of the Department of Transportation (IDOT) refusing the
request to allow Motor Fuel Taxes to reimburse the county forthe use of Home Rule Sales

Tax revenues to repay the bonds? Will you have an answer before the bonds are sold?

2. is the current annual Motor Fuel Tax allotment insufficient to do a $125 million highway
capital program? If so, by how much?

3. Will any Cook County property tax pledge be necessary to issue these bonds?

4. What is the principal/interest maturity schedule? Is there any rating agency issue with
doing this, in light ofthe state/county pension issues?

Thank you for your assistance in this matter.
Sincerely,

John P. Daley
Finance Chairman



THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT
EARLEAN COLLINS 1st PETER N. SILVESTRI 91h Dlst.
ROBERT STEELE 2nd DIst. BRIDGET GAINER 101h Dlst.
JERRY BUTLER 3rd 0151. JOHN P. DALEY 11th Dist.
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS 41h JOHN A. FRITCHEY 12m DIST.
DEBORAH SIMS 51h LARRY SUFFREDIN 1311: Dist.
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY 61h GREGG GOSLIN 14Ih DISI.
JESUS G. GARCIA 7th DISI. TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 15m Dlst.
EDWIN REYES 8m JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI l?th 

ELIZABETH ANN DDODY GORMAN 

Via Hand Delivery

July 19,2012

Honorable Commissioner John P. Daley

Chair, Finance Committee

Cook County Board of Commissioners

Room 567, 118 North Clark Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602

COOK COUNTY
BUREAU OF FINANCE

TARIQ MALHANCE
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

County Building
118 North Clark Street, Room 1127
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1423
TEL (312) 603-5287
FAX (312) 603-3681
TDD (312) 603-5255

 

Re: Revenue-Bond Initiative for Highway Projects

Dear Commissioner Daley:

With reference to the questions in your letter of July 11, 2012, regarding the above-captioned matter,
please ?nd our answers below:

Question: What are the chances of the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) refusing the request
to allow Motor Fuel Taxes to reimburse the County for the use of Home Rule Sales Tax revenues to repay

the bonds?

Answer: We have conferred with Bond Counsel and Co-Bond Counsel on this matter. At the same
time, our colleagues at the Highway Department have conferred with IDOT. Counsel and IDOT
have con?rmed that the list of projects attached to the subject Ordinance are eligible for MFT
funding. They also have con?rmed that IDOT has agreed to our proposed approach, under which
MFTs would replenish the sales taxes used for the projects. Based on the conversations between
IDOT and the Highway Department, we are con?dent that IDOT will approve the reimbursement.

Question: Is the current annual Motor Fuel Tax allotment insuf?cient to do a highway capital
program? If so, by how much?

Answer: Motor Fuel Tax revenues are utilized by the County for several purposes, including
highways and public safety. The current allotment for the Highway Department would require an
extended period of time to fund in highway capital projects. The use of bonds was
included in the FY 2012 budget, and allows for a more rapid and greater level of funding for $100
million in capital projects. It also will generate and support a higher level of economic activity in
the region.

Printed on Recycled Paper

Question: Will any Cook County property tax pledge be necessary to issue these bonds?

Answer: No.

Question: What is the principal/ interest maturity schedule? Is there any rating agency issue with doing
this, in light of the state/county pension issues?

Answer:. The actual interest rates on the Series 2012 Bonds will be set at the time of the sale,
based on market conditions and investor reception, but are expected to be signi?cantly below 5%
per year. The bonds would be structured for a level debt service structure of approximately $7
million annually over 25 years, assuming current market interest rates. The Series 2012 Bonds?
Proposed Interest and Total Debt Service (shown in the attached chart) re?ects our estimate of
current market conditions, which re?ect historically low interest rates.

We have met with Moody?s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and Poor?s Ratings
Services. The rating agencies are aware that the problems associated with state and local pension
systems can be addressed only through legislation, and are watching state and local efforts with
great interest. However, they are also aware that state and local pension challenges chie?y impact
the County?s General Obligation rating. As this transaction is for the County?s inaugural sales tax
issue, they will place greater attention on the strength of the sales tax credit?s legal security,
structure, historical performance, and diversity of the County?s sales tax revenue base. Thus, at the
moment, none of the rating agencies have identified the state/county pension challenges as an issue
with respect to rating the Series 2012 Bonds. Further the issuance of a new debt instrument in the
form of sales tax revenue bonds will not have an impact on the County?s existing General
Obligation Bond rating.

Thank you in advance for your support of this highway construction initiative. Please let us know if you
have any more questions or would like additional information.

Sincerely,

Tariq lhance
Chief Financial Of?cer

Cc:

Letitia Close

Attachment

 

 

County of Cook, Illinois

Motor Fuel Tax Revenue Bonds Credit vs. Sales Tax Revenue Bonds Debt Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Present value of total difference is $4,421,687

 

1


 

 

 

Piease note that the figures 00006 are indicative 05 of current market rates on Juiv 20, 2012 and are subject to change according to
pre vm?iing market 600002005

 

Bond Hypothetical Hypotheticalf Hypothetical Projectedi Projected Total Savings from
Year MFT MFT MFT Debt Sales Tax Sales Tax? Sales Tax use of Sales
Ending Principal Interest Service Principal Interesti Debt Service Tax bonds (1)
372322012 .
11/15/2013 2,045,000 4,453,668 5 6,498,668 2,295,000 3,918,536 6,213,536 285,132 
112152? 2014 2, 890,000 3, 605, 745 6,495, 745 3,035, 000 3, 176,421 6, 211,421 284,324
11/15/2015 2, 930,000 3, 568, 753 6,498, 753 3,060,000 3,149,713 6, 209, 713 289,040
11/15/2016 2,970,000 3,525,096 6,495,096 3,095,000 . 3,116,359 - 6,211,359 283,737
1121522017 3,020,000 3,476,388 6,496,388 3,135,000 3,077,981 6,212,981 283,407
11/15/2018 3,075,000 3,419,612 . 6,494,612 3,180,000 3,031,583 6,211,583 283,029
11/15/ 2019 3,145,000 3,352,577 I 6,497,577 3,235,000 2,974,979 6,209,979 287,598
1121522020 3,220,000 1 3,225,524 6,495,524 3,300,000 2,908,661 6,208,661 286,863
11/15/2021 3,305,000 1 3,189,550 6,494,550 3,375,000 2,833,751 6,208,751 285,799
1121522022 3,405,000 3,093,705 6,498,705 3,460,000 2,249,376 - 5,209,375 289,329
11/15/2023 3,505,000 2,990,193 6,495,193 3,555,000 2,658,032 6,213,032 282,161
1121522024 3,625,000 2,823,322 6,498,827 3,655,000 2,554,226 6,209,226 289,601 -
1121522025 3,250,000 2,246,222 6,496,227 3,770,000 2,440,190 6,210,190 286,037
1121522026 3,890,000 2,607,422 6,497,477 3,895,000 2,315,280 6,210,780 286,697
11/ 15/2027 5 4,040,000 2,458,490 6,498,490 4,030,000 2,182,182 6,212,182 286,309 .
11/15/2028 4,200,000 2,298,102 6,498,102 4,125,000 2,038,311 6,213,311 284,792 3
11/ 15/2029 4,370,000 2,126,742 6,496,742 4,325,000 1 1,884,671 6,209,671 287,072
11/ 15/ 2030 4,550,000 1,944,076 . 6,494,076 4,490,000 1,721,186 6,211,186 282,891
11/ 15/ 2031 4,745,000 1,749,791 6,494,791 4,665,000 . 1,547,423 6,212,423 282,369
11/15/2032 4,955,000 1,543,384 6,498,384 4,845,000 1,365,488 6,210,488 287,896 
11/15/2033 5,165,000 1,330,319 6,495,319 5,035,000 1,176,533 6,211,533 283,786 5
1121572034 3 5,410,000 1,088,080 6,498,080 5,250,000 960,531 6,210,531 287,549 .
1121522035 5,660,000 834,351 6,494,351 5,425,000 735,306 6,210,306 284,045
11/15/2036 5,925,000 568,897 6,493,897 5,710,000 500,429 6,210,429 283,469 5
5 11/15/2037 6,205,000 291,015 6,496,015 5,955,000 255,470 6,210,470 285,545
TOTAL 100,000,000 1 62,411,584 . 162,411,584 100,000,000 55,273,110 155,273,110 7,138,474

118 N. Clark Street, Room 567 JOHN P. DALEY

Chicago, IL 60602 Chairman
312.603.4400 Of?ce Committee on Finance
312.603.6688 Fax

e-mail: jdaley@cookcountygov.com

 

Commissioner 11th District
Cook County Board of Commissioners

- MEMORANDUM
Date: July 20, 2012
To: Members of the Finance Committee

From: John P. Daley
Chairman, Finance Committee

Subject: Correspondence regarding a Finance Committee agenda item

 

Attached for your information is recent correspondence regarding Communication Number
319031 (New Item 12 from the Board meeting of July 10, 2012), which appears on the agenda
for the Finance Committee meeting of July 23, 2012.

Printed on Recycled Paper

Morgan, Lewis Bockius LLP 
77 West Wacker Drive Morgan 
Chicago, IL 60601

Tel: 312.324.1000
Fax: 312.324.1001


COUNSELORS AT LAW

Scott T. Schutte
Partner

312.324.1773
sschutte@morganlewis.com

VIA CERTIFIED MAIL AND MESSENGER

John P. Daley, Chairman Maria de Lourdes Coss, CPPO
Finance Committee of the Cook County Chief Procurement Of?cer
Board of Commissioners Cook County Of?ce of the Purchasing
118 N. Clark Street, Room 567 Agent
Chicago, IL 60602 118 North Clark Street, Room 1018
Chicago, IL 60602
Sherriff Tom Dart
Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce E. LaVerne Hall
50 W. Washington Director, Of?ce of Contract Compliance
Chicago, IL 60602 118 N. Clark Street Room 1020

Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Bid and Contract Award Protest by ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC pertaining
to Request For Proposal No. 11-84-03 SP for Food Services

Dear Chairman Daley, Sheriff Dart, Ms. de Lourdes Coss, and Ms. Hall:

We represent ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC This letter
constitutes protest of the recommendation made public on July 10, 2012 by the
Of?ce of the Sheriff of Cook County to award RFP N0. 1 1-84?03 8P (the to CBM
Managed Services one of the bidders on the RFP, and then allow CBMS to assign
the contract to a newly-formed limited liability company, CBM Premier Management, LLC
Premier?), which did not submit a bid in response to the RFP.

We understand that on July 10, 2012 pursuant to a recommendation of contract award
and request for approval to enter into a contract from the Sheriff of Cook County and the Chief
Procurement Of?cer the Cook County Board of Commissioners voted to refer to the Finance
Committee the recommendation to award the contract to CBMS and assign it to CBM Premier.
Although it is unclear whether the County will take the position that this action by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners constitutes a ?recommendation for award? under Sections 34-
136 and 34-138 of the Procurement Code, this is the ?rst public information regarding any award
of RFP 11-84-03 8P. Accordingly, ARAMARK is submitting this protest to the procurement and

MorganLewis
JUly13,2012 COUNSELORS AT LAW
Page2

competitive bidding process associated with the RF P. We understand that at the Finance
Committee meeting on July 23, 2012, there will be an opportunity for public comment on the
recommendation to award the contract to CBMS and allow the assignment of the contract to
CBM Premier. We welcome the opportunity to discuss the following items, and others, that the
Finance Committee must consider with respect to the recommendation.

ARAMARK has limited information available to it at this point. Nonetheless, based on
the information that is available, ARAMARK objects to the award on the grounds that: (1) the
recommendation is contrary to the interests of the County; (2) the recommendation is contrary to
the RFP evaluation process outlined within the RFP itself and within the Cook County
Procurement Code; and (3) the bidding and evaluation process has not been fairly administered
with respect to ARAMARK, as required by Section 34-138 of the Procurement Code.
ARAMARK offers the following facts in support of its protest, and reserves the right to
supplement these facts and to advance additional arguments as new evidence and information
beCOmes available:

I. ARAMARK IS A RESPONSIVE BIDDER AND OFFERED THE BEST
. OVERALL VALUE TO THE COUNTY.

A. ARAMARK Is a Responsive and Responsible Bidder.

Pursuant to Section 5.4 of the RFP, the County intended to choose a proposer that ?best
meets the needs of the County and provides the best overall value? for food services for the
Department of Corrections. proposal satis?ed all of the criteria for award of the
contract, and also provided the best overall value to the County.

As late as June 28, 2012, County of?cials including Alexis Herrera, Brandi Knazze,
Barbie Flock, Jocelyn Jackson (AED Administration), Sean Julian (Superintendent of Contract
Monitoring), and Phillip Gnacinslii (MS. Sanitarian), as well as lawyers from the Of?ce of the
Sheriff and the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney engaged in negotiations with
ARAMARK toward a ?nal contract. These negotiations would not have taken place had
ARAMARK not been identified as a responsible and responsive bidder. See RFP Secs. 5.3.8;
5. 6. Indeed, during these negotiations, County of?cials reacted positively to 
proposal, and also indicated their approval of current performance at the Cook
County Jail. As late as July 10, 2012, ARAMARK was providing information requested by the
County during these negotiations relating to the Proposal. On information and belief,
ARAMARK had the highest scoring proposal, according to the proposal evaluation committee.
See RFP Section 5.3.

Morgan Lewis
July13,2012 COUNSELORS AT LAW
Page3

B. Proposal Was Millions of Dollars Lower than 
Proposal and Thus Offered the ?Best Overall Value? to the County.

In the recommendation to award the contract, the Sheriff and the Chief Procurement
Of?cer represented to the Board of Commissioners that the ?nancial impact to the County of the
award to CBMS and assignment to CBM Premier would be $3 8,360,583.23. The
recommendation did not discuss the fact that proposal was more than $2 million
lower than proposal for the initial three-year term of the contract, and more than $4
million lower than proposal over the lifetime of the contract. On this fact alone, the
award to CBMS does not ?provide the best overall value? to the County. See RFP Section 5.4.
The recommendation provided no explanation as to why the Board of Commissioners should
choose to pay over $4 million more than it needs to in order to feed the inmates at the Cook
County Jail.

Additionally, the recommendation made no mention of the fact that ARAMARK has
provided food services to the Cook County Department of Corrections at the Cook County Jail
for more than 10 years. ARAMARK is familiar with the stringent and varying requirements of
providing meals in a correctional setting, as well as the unique issues presented at the Cook
County Jail. As set forth below, CBM Premier is a newly?formed company that has no
experience whatsoever with the Cook County Corrections system (or, on information and belief,
any correctional system). This creates the potential risk of signi?cant operational, ?nancial and
security issues at the County Jail and is almost certain to result in incremental transition costs
apparently not factored into the County?s award decision. The recommendation to award a
contract of this magnitude to an untested company at a signi?cantly higher cost to the County
does not comport with Section 5.4 or the overall objectives of the RFP.

II. CBM PREMIER MANAGEMENT, LLC DOES NOT MEET THE TECHNICAL
CRITERIA FOR THE CONTRACT AND SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DISQUALIFIED.

A. CBM Premier Is A Newly Formed Limited Liability Corporation That Was
Not Even Authorized to Conduct Business When the RFP Was Issued, and
Has Never Engaged in Any Work for the County or for any Other Client.

According to the recommendation, the Sheriff and the Chief Procurement Of?cer
recommended that the contract be awarded to CBM Managed Services, and then ?will be
assigned to CBM Premier Management LLC as indicated in their proposal.? CBM Premier is a
limited liability corporation with three members: Catering by Marlin, Inc. of South Dakota;
Airport Restaurant Management, Inc.; and The Buona Companies. CBM Premier was formed as
a limited liability corporation doing business in Illinois on January 30, 2012, over three months
after the RFP was issued by the County, and two months after proposals were due. CBM
Premier has only been in business for seven months. No available public records suggest that
CBM Premier has had any history of procurement with Cook County, or with any public entity

Morgan Iewis
July1352012 COUNSELORS AT LAW
Page4

in the corrections industry. Thus, it seems unlikely that CBM Premier can satisfy the stringent
criteria set forth in the RFP to be deemed a responsible and responsive bidder and any
information by CBMS is wholly insuf?cient since it will not ultimately be responsible for
providing the services requested in the RFP.

B. CBM Premier Should Have Been Disquali?ed Based On Its Failure To Meet
Technical Criteria of the RFP.

The RFP requires that, as a minimum requirement to be awarded the contract, a proposer
had to meet several technical criteria. Section 5.3 of the RFP discussed the evaluation process,
and stated that responses which do not meet these criteria will be disquali?ed without
further consideration.? The criteria for selection included compliance with the Technical
Proposal speci?cs within Section 6.2 of the RFP.

Section 6.2 of the RFP required (among other things) that the proposer demonstrate
?experience . . . as evidenced by the successful implementation of similar inmate meal programs
in at least 3 large, complex public organizations preferably County government and municipal
organizations. Of those 3 organizations, at least one should service 2,000 inmates or more.?
Section 6.2 further states that the proposer demonstrate and experience of the
proposed key personnel as evidenced by relevant experience including correctional food
service,? and provide ?[q]uality of customer service references from 3 current or past large
institutional/ governmental clients, which receive(d) food service.?

As a 7?month?old company, CBM Premier which is the relevant entity since it is the
entity that would have to perform under the contract simply cannot have the experience that the
RFP requires. For this reason alone, CBM Premier did not meet the technical requirements of
the RFP and. therefore, should have been disquali?ed.

Section 7.2.6 of the RFP also requires that the proposer demonstrate ??nancial stability?
by providing ?audited ?nancial statements for the last three ?scal years,? including providing
documents such as a ?letter of opinion, balance sheet, schedules, and related auditor?s notes.? A
7-month-old company cannot have such documents, or the ??nancial stability? that justi?es the
award of a contract worth more than $38 million during the initial term and over $76 million
during the lifetime of the contract (again, over $4 million more than the ARAMARK proposal
over the life of the contract).

C. CBM Premier?s Proposal Has Not Been Approved by the Cook County
Office of Contract Compliance With Respect to Participation.

Based on the recommendation provided to the Board of Commissioners on July 10, 2012,
it does not appear that the proposal of CBM Premier has been approved by the Of?ce of Contract
Compliance with respect to its Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise 
participation, as required by the RFP. Airport Restaurant Management, Inc, is a Cook-County

Morgan Lewis
July1392012 COUNSELORS AT LAW
PageS

certi?ed MBE. On information and belief, proposal involved participation by Airport
Restaurant Management Inc. in an effort to satisfy the County?s MBE participation goals; no
other minority businesses were proposed as subcontractors to proposal. ARAMARK
submits that CBM Premier?s proposal does not meet the stated goals for the inclusion of
MBEs or other disadvantaged businesses.

D. Withdrawal and Subsequent Re-Bid Should Have Disquali?ed
CBMS.

On information and belief, at some point during the RFP process CBMS withdrew its
proposal from consideration by the County. There is no provision for withdrawal and re?bid
within the RFP procedures. Accordingly, once CBMS withdrew, it should have been
disquali?ed from consideration. And, under no circumstances should CBMS have been
permitted to revive its withdrawn proposal.

The fact that proposal included an LLC that was not in existence when CBMS
was required to respond demonstrates that CBMS was allowed to re-craft and/or re?structure its
proposal. ARAMARK was not given such information or opportunity, and such a procedure is
not permitted by the Procurement Code or the RFP.



For all these reasons, and pursuant to Cook County Ordinance Sec. 34-136 and 34-138,
ARAMARK requests that the recommendation to award a contract to CBMS for RFP No. 11-84-
03 8P be rescinded, and that the contract for RFP 11-04-083P be awarded to ARAMARK.
Alternatively, ARAMARK requests that the recommendation to award a contract for RFP No.
be rescinded and the County re-bid for these services.

Sincerely,

Scott T. Schutte

Mor an, Lewis 81 Bockius LLP 
77 Vllest Wacker Drive Morgan 
Chicago, IL 60601

Tel: 312.324.1000
Fax: 312.324.1001


COUNSELORS AT LAW

Scott T. Schutte
Partner

312.324.1773
sschutte@morganlewis.com

July 18, 2012

VIA CERTIFIED MAIL AND MESSENGER

John P. Daley, Chairman Maria de Lourdes Coss, CPPO
Finance Committee of the Cook County Chief Procurement Of?cer
Board of Commissioners Cook County Of?ce of the Purchasing Agent
118 N. Clark Street, Room 567 118 North Clark Street, Room 1018
Chicago, IL 60602 Chicago, IL 60602
Sherriff Torn Dart E. LaVerne Hall
Cook County Sheriff? 5 Of?ce Director, Of?ce of Contract Compliance
50 W. Washington 118 N. Clark Street Room 1020
Chicago, IL 60602 Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Bid and Contract Award Protest by ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC
pertaining to Request For Proposal No. 11-84-03 8P for Food Services

Dear Chairman Daley, Sheriff Dart, Ms. de Lourdes Coss, and Ms. Hall:

I am writing on behalf of ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC in
follow-up to the bid protest letter (the ?Bid Protest?) that we served on you on July 13, 2012
concerning RFP NO. 11-84-038P (the 

We understand that at the Finance Committee meeting on July 23, 2012 (the ?July 23
Meeting?), there will be an opportunity for public comment on the recommendation to award the
contract to CBM Managed Services and to allow CBMS to assign the contract to a
newly-formed limited liability company, CBM Premier Management, LLC Premier?).
As we stated in our Bid Protest, ARAMARK welcomes the opportunity to discuss the issues
raised in the Bid Protest at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Accordingly, ARAMARK is
in the process of requesting an opportunity to raise these important issues at the July 23 Meeting.

Morgan Lew15
Joth.Daley,Chairman COUNSELORS AT LAW
Sherriff Tom Dart
Maria de Lourdes Coss, CPPO
E. LaVerne Hall
July 18, 2012
Page 2

Meanwhile, in an effort to be able to respond to any issues that might arise during the
July 23 Meeting, we request that you make available to ARAMARK the following materials:

1. A copy of the contract that according to the Finance Committee Notice and
Agenda dated July 11, 2012 (the ?July 23 Agenda?) the Board is being asked to
approve. See also RFP Section 5.6 award document shall be a contract
incorporating by reference all the requirements, pricing spread sheets, terms and
conditions and all other attachments of the solicitation and the Proposer?s
proposal response?).

2. A copy of the GEMS proposal. See id.

3. Documents that substantiate the alleged determination that proposal
?offered the best value? based on the ?evaluation process [that] was conducted
based on the evaluation criteria outlined in the RFP document.? See July 23
Agenda at 3.

4. Documents showing the scoring referred to in Section 5.3 of the RFP for both the
GEMS and ARAMARK proposals.

5. Documents re?ecting any communication between CBMS and/or CBM Premier
regarding the RFP, the GEMS proposal, or the contract.

6. Any documents that the Finance Committee would like to discuss with
ARAMARK if an ARAMARK representative is allowed to speak at the July 23
Meeting.



Thank you for your attention to this important issue, and please let me know if you would
like to discuss request.

Sincerely,
Scott T. Schutte


MEMORANDUM
Date: July 23, 2012
To: Members of the. Finance Committee

From: John P. Daley
Chairman, Finance Committee

Subject: Additional correspondence regarding Comm. No. 319031

 

Attached for your information is additional correspondence regarding Communication Number
319031 (New Item 12 from the Board meeting of July 10, 2012), which appears on the agenda
for the Finance Committee meeting of July 23, 2012.

 

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK

TONI PRECKWINKLE. PRESIDENT B31235 OF FINANCE
Eadean Collins ?Dist B?dsetGiner 10' Dist OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Robert Steele John P. Daley 11" Dist
mittens 213$ rattan MARIA DE LOURDES coss

Gosl'In 14*Di A
?ght/i311 0% my 0' Schneider 1 51. 012i CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Jesus G. Garcia 7" Dist J-e?rey Tobolski 16" Dist.
Edwin Reyes 8: Dist Elizabeth Ann Doody Gonnan 1'1"h Dist. County Building
Pew? 9 118 No'rth Clark Street. R00rn1018
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304
TEL: (312) 603-5370
MEMORANDUM
To: Cook County Board of CommissiOners

From: Maria de Lourdes Coss, CPPO -
Chief Procurement Of?cer

Date: July 20, 2012

RE: Request for Proposal No. 11-84-03 8P
Food Service Management

I am- in receipt of a letter from legal counsel, Scott T. Schutte of Morgan, Lewis 
Bockius LLP regarding the procurement reference above. The letter is styled as a protest; however, the
protest procedures detailed in Section 34?136 donot apply. to the RFP process. is copy of the

correspondence received and my response.
Please advise if you have any. questions. Thank you.

cc Hon. Toni Preckwinkle, President
Hon. Torn Dart, Sheriff
Zelda Whitler, Undersheriff
Knit Summers, Chief of Staff
Laura Lechowicz Felicione
Letitia Close
Lat-Verne Hall

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

 

- COUNTY OF COOK
TONI PRECKWINKLE. PRESIDENT BUREAU OF FINANCE
Ear-lean Collins 1" Dist Bridget Gainer 10" Dist OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
RobertSleele 2"d Dist John Daley 11'  Dist
Buli A Fritch 12" 
?rearm ml; diamante. 1310:; MARIA DE LOURDES coss
borah Gr Go 14" Dist
Jdan P. Di; Fri-313311 Oi Echneider Dist CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
Jesus G. Garcia 7" Dist Jeffrey R. Tobolskl 16" Dist
Edwin Reyes . Dist Elizabelh Ann Doody Gomran Dist County Building
PM 6mm 9 DBL 118 North Clark Street. Room 1018

Chicago, 60602-1304
TEL: (312) 603-5370

July 20, 2012

VIA CERTIFIED MAIL AND FACSIMILE

Mr. Scott T. Schutte, Partner
Morgan Lewis Bockius LLP
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60601

Dear Mr. Schutte:

RE: Request for Proposal No. 11-84-03 8P
Response to letter dated July 18, 2012
Food Service Management

I am in receipt of your letter of July 18, 2012 requesting copy of documents associated with the contract
for Food Service Management for the Department of Corrections. In accordance with the Freedom of
Information Act please submit a freedom of information request. The County will make
available for inspection or copying any documents it is required to pursuant to the Act.

Also, at every Board of Commissioners meeting in accordance With the Board rules, members of the
public are allowed to address the Board.

Sincer 1y,

m; map/JAE?

in do Lourdes Coss, CPPO
Chief Procurement Of?cer

cc Hon. John P. Daley, Chairman
Hon. Torn Dart, Sheriff
LaVerne Hall

a
in?

Frinlu?l on hcyeled Plpn'

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
TONI PRECKWINKLE. PRESIDENT

Eartean Collins 1?l Dist
Robert Steele 2?"d Dist
Jerry Butter 3" Dist.
William Beavers 4" Dist
Deborah Sims 5" Dist
Joan P. Murphy Dist.
Jesus (3. Garcia 7" Dist
Edwin Reyes tl'h Dist.

Peter Silveslri 9" Dist

July 20, 2012

VIA CERTIFIED MAIL AND FACSHVIILE

Bridget Gainer

John P. Daley

John A Fritchey

Lawrence Suffredin

Gregg Gos?n

Timothy 0 Schneider

Jeffrey Tobolski

Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorrnan

Mr. Scott T. Schutte, Partner
Morgan Lewis Bockius LLP
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, IL 60601

Dear Mr. Schutte:

RE: Request for Proposal No. 11-84-03 8P
Response to Protest dated July 13, 2012

10?? Dist
11!" Dist.
12m Dist.
13" Dist.
149? Dist
15'? Dist
16"" Dist.
17?h Dist

Food Service Management

 

COUNTY OF COOK
BUREAU OF FINANCE

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

MARIA DE LOURDES COSS
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

County Building
118 North Clark Street. Room 1018
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304
TEL: (312) 603-5370

I am in receipt of your letter of July 13, 2012 which you have styled as a protest to the recommendation
to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the County enter into a contract with CBM
Managed Services pursuant to Request for Proposal No. 11-84-038P for Food Services.

The citations to the Cook County Procurement Code (?Code?) as the basis for your letter pertain to a
bid. The County did not use the bid process set out in the Code but rather utilized the Request for
Proposal process set forth in ?34-13?8. There is no provision in that section for a protest of the
recommendation resulting from the RFP process.

As you may know, the RFP process is to determine which, if any, responder(s) to an RFP the County
wishes to enter into negotiations for a contract. That process gives the County wide latitude in
determining with whom it wishes to negotiate a contract where price is but one of many factors in
making that determination.

Notwithstanding your letter, I stand by the process which resulted in the recommendation of CBM
Managed Services for this contract.

  

Wall

in de Lourdes Cos

Chief Procurement Of?cer

9&9

?ap
3, CPPO



Prinudon Ray-dad Popu-

Morgan, Lewis Bockius LLP 
77 West Wacker Drive Morgan LCWIS
Chicago, IL 60601

Tel: 312.324.1000
Fax: 312.324.1001


COUNSELORS AT LAW

Scott T. Schutte
Partner

312.324.1773
sschutte@morganlewis.com

July 20, 2012

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL 
AND MESSENGER

Matthew B. DeLeon,
Secretary to the Board

118 N. Clark Street Room 567
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Re: Bid and Contract Award Protest by ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC
pertaining to Request For Proposal No. for Food Services

Dear Mr. DeLeon:

We represent ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC We understand
that the agenda at the Finance Committee?s meeting on July 23, 2012 at 1 pm. will include
consideration of a recommendation to award a contract pursuant to RFP No. (the
to CBM Managed Services and thereafter to allow CBMS to assign the
contract to a newly-formed limited liability company, CBM Premier Management, LLC 
Premier?).

As the proponent of a competing proposal for this contract, ARAMARK desires to
address the Finance Committee at the July 23, 2012 meeting for a period of not less than 30
minutes, including but not limited to issues raised in bid protest dated July 13,
2012. Please advise of the Finance Committee?s willingness to grant this request.

Sincerely,



Scott T. Schutte



STS/mfd

Morgan, Lewis 81 Bockius LLP 1 
77 West Wacker Drive organ WIS
Chicago,lL60601 COUNSELORS AT LAW
Tel: 312.324.1000

Fax: 312.324.1001


Scott T. Schutte
Partner

312.324.1773
sschutte@morganlewis.com

July 23, 2012
VIA MESSENGER

Maria de Lourdes Coss, CPPO

Chief Procurement Of?cer

Cook County Of?ce of the Purchasing Agent
118 North Clark Street, Room 1018
Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Bid and Contract Award Protest by ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC
pertaining to Request For Proposal No. 11-84-03 8P for Food Services

Dear Ms. de Lourdes Coss:

On July 13, 2012, ARAMARK Correctional Services, LLC served on
you a bid protest letter (the ?Bid Protest?) concerning RFP NO. 11-84-038P (the We
have received no response. We also have not received any response to my letter of July 18, 2012
asking your office to make certain information concerning the RFP available to ARAMARK.
(Both letters are attached for your convenience.)

Notwithstanding Bid Protest, we understand that the Finance Committee
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners intends to take up your of?ce?s award
recommendation at its meeting at 1 pm. today.

Section 34-136 of the Cook County Procurement Code provides as follows:

When a bid protest has been submitted, no further action shall be taken on
the Procurement until the CPO makes a decision. The CPO shall issue a
written decision on the bid protest to the protesting Bidder and to any
other Bidder affected by such decision as soon as reasonably practicable.

Chicago Philadelphia Washington New York Los Angeies San Francisco Miami Pittsburgh Princeton Paio Alto
Dallas Houston Harrisburg Irvine Boston Wilmington London Paris Brussels Frankfurt Beijing Tokyo

Morgan LCWIS
MariadeLourdesCoss,CPPO COUNSELORS AT LAW
July 23, 2012
Page 2

The bid protest procedure set forth in Section 34?136 applies to the RFP. Section 34-136
including the provision quoted above is titled ?competitive bidding? and thus applies 'to all
contracts that are let through a competitive process. The request for proposal process including
the process of choosing a vendor for food services at Cook County Jail ?is a competitive
process under this Procurement Code.? See Procurement Code Section 34-138.

In light of Bid Protest, the Finance Committee?s consideration of your
of?ce?s recommendation would be improper under Section 34-136. If the Finance Committee
chooses to proceed with the hearing despite unresolved protest, ARAMARK
expressly reserves all rights at law and equity.

Sincerely,

g/W

Scott T. Schutte

Enclosures
cc:

John P. Daley, Chairman (via messenger)

Finance Committee of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners

118 N. Clark Street, Room 567

Chicago, IL 60602

Sherriff Tom Dart (via messenger)
Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce

50 W. Washington

Chicago, IL 60602

E. LaVeme Hall (via messenger)
Director, Office of Contract Compliance
118 N. Clark Street Room 1020
Chicago, IL 60602

Laura Lechowicz Felicione (via messenger)

Special Counsel, Cook County Office of the President
118 N. Clark Street, Room 537

Chicago, IL 60602

118 N. Clark Street, Room 567 JOHN P. DALEY

Chicago, IL 60602 Chairman
312.603.4400 Of?ce Committee on Finance
312.603.6688 Fax

e-mail: 

 

Commissioner 11th District
Cook County Board of Commissioners

July 23, 2012

Mr. Richard Prendergast
111 W. Washingtoii St., Suite 1100
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Dear Mr. Prendergast:

We have received your request to submit oral testimony on behalf of Aramark Correctional Services,
LLC, at a meeting of the Finance Committee scheduled for July 23, 2012, at 1:00 PM. Please be advised
that pursuant to Chapter 2, Article Section 2-107 (dd) ofthe Cook County Code of Ordinances, you
will be granted 3 minutes to present your oral testimony. In the event that members of the Committee
have additional questions for you or seek further clari?cation of your remarks, additional time may be
granted to allow for your response to inquiries from the Committee. While time constraints require
limitations on the length of oral testimony and subsequent questions, should you wish to submit written
testimony, letters, or other documents, these will be accepted and entered into the Committee?s final
report.

Since rely,



John P. Daley
Chairman, Committee on Finance

Proposed Highway Department Capital Plan - 2012-2014

EXHIBIT A

 

 

Project (Road Name)

Limits

Fiscal Year

Estimated Cost

Municipality

Commissioner
District

Project Scope

 

2012

 

 

Shoe Factory Road

at Sutton Road {Village Letting]

2012

$100,000

Hoff-man Estates/Uninc.

Intersection Channelization

 

Lee Road

Shermer to Dundee Letting)

2012

5150.000



14

Pavement Reconstruction

 

Winnetka Road

Skokie River to Hibbard (IDOT Letting)

$250,000

Northfield

14

Wearing Surface Removal 8: Replacement with Ease
Course Repairs

 

Plain?eld Road

47th St to Avenue

2012

$3 00,000

Brooid?ield/Lyons

Wearing Surface Removal 81 Replacement with Base
lCourse Repairs

 

Crawford Aven ue

at Church Street (Village Letting)

2012

5340.000

Site-hie

Intersection ReneItsmicticir',J Channelizlt'ion

 

Old Orchard

at Skokie Boulevard Lettingl

2012

$407,000

Shellie

35321

Intersection Reconstruction! Channelization

 

87th Street

LaGrange to Cliff

2012

$500, 000

Willow Springsi?chkorv
Hi EJ'I-Jninc.

153. 17

Wearing Surface Removal Replacement with Ease
Course Repairs

 

Green Bay Road

Pedestrian Underpass lGroup 1 - 2012i

2012

$500,000

Xenilworth

13 84.14

Pedestrian Under-rats Structure Reclaim

 

Mount Prospect Road

Northwest Highway to Busse

2012

$600,000

Des PIaines/Mount Prospect

5&1?

Wearing Surface Removal Replacement with Ease
Course Repairs

 

Arlington Heights Road

at Landmeier [Village Letting)

2012

$310,000

EthrmeWIuer nine.

Intersection Improvement

 

Harms Road

Golfto Lake (Group 1 2012)

2012

$800,000

GIenview/Skokie/Uninc,

13&14

Wearing Surface Removal EL Replacement with Ease
Course Repairs

 

Flossmoor Road

West of I-S7 to East of Cicero

2012

$1,200,000

 

Country Club Hills/Uninc.

Wearing Surface Removal Replacement with
Ease Repairs EL Oyerlay

 

Euclid Avenue

Elmhurstto Wolf

2012

$1,500,000

Mount Prospect/Prospect
Heights

158117

Wearing Surface Removal 81 Replacement with
Base Repairs

 

Penny Road

Dundee to New Sutton Road

2012

52,700,000

Barrington 

14

Ram Recycling, Watching 3L Overlay

 

108th Avenue

179th to 153rd Place

2012

53,000,000

Orland Park

17

Base Recycling, Widening 8: Overlay

 

Bartlett Road

Lake to Golf

53,300,000

Streamwood/Hoffman
Estates/Bartlett

Concrete Pavement Patching 8i Diamond Grinding

 

Quentin Road

Illinois to Northwest Highway

$3,700,000

Palatine

14

Base Repair; Curb 8c Gutter replacement; Wearing
Surface Overlav

 

Wentworth Avenue

nun-n 'b (O a! ll?

$5,000.000

mm];

0&5

Pavement Reconstructiliin

 

170'? (157?) Street

I
Smith Park Ford

$6,800,000

South Holland

Pavement Reconstruction

 

Joe Orr Road (Relocatedl

East of Stony Island to Torrence Avenue

57,200,000

Lynwood

Pavement Construction on newAlignment

 

88th Avenue

103rd Street to 37th 

511.100.000

Hickory HRIs/?Palos Hills

17

Pave me nt Reconstruction

 

550,247,000

 

 

2013

 

 

Schaumburg Road

at Barrington Road

20 13

$400,000

Schaumburg

Intersection ReconstructionlWidening Improvement

 

Western Avenue

Rosana to Addison

2013

$400,000

Chicago

15
12

Median. Curb and Gutter, Striping Crosswallo

 

Joe Orr Road (Old)

Blue Stem Parkway to Torrence Avenue

2013

$500,000

Lynwood

6

Wearing Surface Removal 81 Replacement with Ease
Course Re pairs; Storm Sewer installation

 

Central Avenue

135th to Cal Sag

20 13

$1,000,000

CresMood/Alsip/Uninc.

6

Base Rem/cling, Widening 8: Overlay

 

State Street

26th St to Joe Orr Road

20 13

52, 0 00,000

Chicago Heights

5&5

Concrete Pavement Patching 8: Diamond Grinding

 

Ashland Avenue

Lake St to Fullerton

2013

$3,700,000

Chicago

1.88212

Traf?c Signal Interconnect

 

Crawford Avenue

Devon to Oakton Street

2013

$9,600,000

Lincolnwood/Skokie

13

Pavement Rewnmurb'on

 

Lake-Cook Road

to Waukegan

2013

510,500,000

Deer?eld

13 8114

Pavement Reconstruction/\Mdening

 

Sub-total

53,100,000

 

 

2014

 

 

84th Ave ue

183rd Street to 17lst Street

2014

$1,000,000

Tinley Park

17

'Wearing Surface Removal 8i Replacement with Ease

Course Repairs

 

 

Will?Cook Road

at 143rd Street

 

 

20 14

 

$1,000,000

 

Orland Park

 

Pavement Widening 8L Resuriacing/Intersection

 

17

 

Improvement

 

EXHIBIT A

 

Ashland Avenue

Cerrnakto Roosevelt Road

2014

$1,900,000

Chicago

rs


Course Repairs

 

Schaumburg Road

Barrington to Roselle

2014

53500000

Schaumburg

Concrete Pavement Patching 8i Diamond Grinding

 

Sauk Trail

Haziam to Rldzelinrl

201-1

55.300300

PWFianlo'c-d

Pmn'ent?ecmtriztim

 

Old Orchard

East of Edens to Skokie

20 14

$7,000,000

Skokie

Pavement Reconstruction

 

Center Street

17 to 159th

20 14



Harvey

Pavement Reconstruction

 

Emmi Ava-me

Dali-inn streetta?oif?oad

20.1.0

512000.000



d?wf?m?i

Pavement 

 

Sub-3W

 

 

 

Euclid Avenue

Over I-53

 

 

 

Francisco Avenue

Over Cal Sag Channel

$350,000

Rolling Meadows

Expansion Joint Replacement

 

 

5125.000

Unincorporated

Bridge Repairs

 

Ridgeland Avenue

OverCal Sag Channel

$225,000

Worth?lls?rpralos Height:

68:17

Bridge Repairs

 

Crawford Am ue

OverCal Sag Channel

5225.000

Alsileobbins

5&6

Bridge Repairs

 

104?th Avenue

OverCal Sag Channel

$250,000

Unincorporated

17

El?dn Rep-tin

 

Roselle Road

UmrJaneAiddarris Memorial TollWav

$300,000

Schaumburg

Expansion Joint Replacement

 

 

 

East Lake Avenue

Over West Fork - Br - Chgo River

. $50000

Glenview

14

Bridge Repairs

 

Banypoint Road

Over Des Plaines River

560.000

Riverside

15

Bridge Repairs

 

Hin?lz Road

Over Echo Lake

5200.000

Wheeling

14

Bridge Repairs

 

Hedaie Avente

Over NIRC RR

5500.000

RobestJue [shad

Expansion Joint Replacement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grand Total 

 

$120,842,000

 

 

 

 

Wearing Surface Removal Replacement with Ease

 

