Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building

BOARD AGENDA
for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Tuesday, April 14, 2015, 10:00 AM

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Forest Preserve District Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and
special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3)
minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and
Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.

PRESIDENT

15-0213 (see related file #15-0214)
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE TO CREATE A FOREST PRESERVE NEAR THE McGINTY SLOUGH
AN ORDINANCE CREATING A FOREST PRESERVE in part of Section 25, Township 37 North,
Range 11, East of the Third Principal Meridian, all in Cook County, Illinois adjacent to the McGinty
Slough near Will Cook Road and 123rd Street in District 17.
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois (the
“District”), pursuant to the statutes in such case made and provided, has from time to time acquired by
purchase, condemnation, gift, grant, devise, or otherwise, lands necessary and desirable for District
purposes containing one or more natural forests or parts thereof, or lands connecting such forests or parts
thereof, or lands capable of being reforested for the purpose of protecting and preserving the flora, fauna,
and scenic beauties within the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois, and to restore, restock,
protect, and preserve the natural forests and said lands together with their flora and fauna, as nearly as
may be, in their natural state and condition, for the purpose of the education, pleasure, and recreation of
the public; and
WHEREAS, the said Board of Commissioners of the District also has acquired in like manner lands for the
consolidation of such preserves into unit areas of a size and form convenient and desirable for public use
and economical maintenance and improvement, and lands for the purpose of connecting such preserves
with forested ways or links in order to increase their accessibility, use, and enjoyment, and lands for
improvement by forestation, roads, and pathways, and lands for the purpose of constructing, maintaining,
and operating recreational facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the District has in a like manner acquired lands along water
courses or elsewhere which, in their judgment, were required to control drainage and water conditions
and necessary for the preservation of forested areas required or to be acquired as preserves and lands for
the purpose of extension of roads and forested ways around and by such preserves and for parking space
for automobiles and other facilities not requiring forested areas but incidental to the use and protection
thereof; and
Page 2 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the District as follows:
Section 1. That a unified Forest Preserve be and the same is hereby created within the District which
shall contain and connect lands now owned and lands to be acquired in substantial accordance with the
plat now on file in the office of the General Superintendent of the District, which by reference is hereby
made part thereof, and for the purposes of said Forest Preserve and for the carrying out of the statutory
purposes more particularly set out in the preamble of this ordinance, it is necessary and desirable for the
District to own and it shall acquire property hereinafter described in Section 2 of this ordinance, for the
purpose of creating a Forest Preserve and for District uses.
Section 2. That the lands referred to in Section 1 of this ordinance are more particularly described as
follows:
A PART OF 12375 McCARTHY ROAD, PALOS PARK, ILLINOIS
Lot 1 of Holy Family Villa Subdivision, located in part of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) and the East
Half (E1/2) of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 25, Township 37 North, Range 11 East of the
Third Principal Meridian in the village of Palos Park, Cook County, Illinois more particularly described
as follows:
Commencing at the East Quarter (E1/4) corner of said Section 25, as shown per monument recorded as
Document No. 97267364; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West, on the south line of
the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of said Section 25, a distance of 1889.26 feet, to the Point of Beginning;
Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West on said south line, 2,078.54 feet to the southeast
corner of the East half (E1/2) of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 25; Thence North 1 degree 46
minutes 55 seconds West, 2,647.85 feet on the west line of the East Half of said Northwest Quarter, to
the northwest corner of said East Half of the Northwest Quarter; Thence North 88 degrees 26 minutes 25
seconds East, 1,323.73 feet on the north line of said East Half of the Northwest Quarter, to the northwest
corner of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 25; Thence North 88 degrees 09 minutes 18 seconds East,
1,796.27 feet on the north line of said Northeast Quarter; Thence, South 1 degree 44 minutes 05 seconds
East, 1,083.90 feet; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West, 655.14 feet; Thence, South
0 degrees 23 minutes 13 seconds West, 1,272.75 feet; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds
West, 337.15 feet; Thence, South 1 degree 45 minutes 53 seconds East, 289.88 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
The above described parcel contains 162.64 acres more or less, including 1.57 acres more or less, lying in
public roadway Right of Way.
The bearings shown are in Reference to Grid North as determined from the Illinois State Plane Coordinates
System, East Zone, NAD 83 (2012 adjustment).
PART OF PIN: 22-25-202-002-0000
Section 3. This ordinance is hereby made and ordained to be severable as to each parcel of land or
portion thereof or right of interest in any of the same hereby authorized to be acquired, and failure to
acquire any of the said parcels of land described in Section 2 hereof or right of interest in any of the same
shall not impair or invalidate the authority by this ordinance granted to hold, own, or acquire any other of
said parcels or any right or interest therein, it being the intention of said Board of Commissioners of the
District to carry out the general plan provided in this ordinance so far as legally and financially
practicable, and to negotiate for purchases, condemn, or otherwise acquire from time to time the several
parcels of land described in Section 2 hereof and all right or interest therein.
Page 3 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Section 4. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval.
District: 17
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0237
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOREST PRESERVE FEE SCHEDULE
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of Ordinances to add a fee schedule for the
new Aerial Adventure & Zipline Course.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
7 - Fees, Chapter 1 - Fee Schedule of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of Ordinances is
hereby amended as Follows:
7-1-1: FEE SCHEDULE
***
AERIAL ADVENTURE COURSE AND ZIPLINE FEES
Tree Top Adventure Course: $57.00 (Adult Ages 16+) and $37.00 (Child Ages 10-15)
Tree Top Junior Course: $27.00 (All Ages)
Stand Alone Zipline: $12.00 (All Ages)
*Nonprofit organizations with proper documentation may qualify for a reduced rate of 30% on
designated charges.
*A reduction of 30% applies toward the last two weeks of April and for the first two weeks of
November.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

15-0243
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOREST PRESERVE FEE SCHEDULE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
7 - Fees, Chapter 1 - Fee Schedule of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of Ordinances is
hereby amended as Follows:
Page 4 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

7-1-1: FEE SCHEDULE
***
BOAT HOUSE RENTAL FEES
Row Boat Rental: Hourly Rate $15.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $12.00 / All Day Rate $45.00
Single Kayak Rental: Hourly Rate $15.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $12.00 / All Day Rate
$45.00
Tandem Kayak Rental: Hourly Rate $20.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $15.00 / All Day Rate
$50.00
Canoe Rental: Hourly Rate $20.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $15.00 / All Day Rate $50.00
Paddle Boat Rental: Hourly Rate $15.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $12.00
Electric Motor Boat Rental: Hourly Rate $20.00 / Discount Day Hourly Rate $12.00 / All Day
Rate $60.00
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0244
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 7 Section 1 - Administrative Departments
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 1
- Administrative, Chapter 7 - Administrative Departments, Section 1 - Departments Established of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
Sec. 1-7-1. Departments Established.
There shall be maintained under the supervision of the President and Board of Commissioners
various departments, each under the authority of a head of department governed by the rules of the
Board, and all of said departments shall be under the general supervision and direction of the
General Superintendent of the District, as follows:
(1) Office of the General Superintendent, General Office, under the direction and general
supervision of the General Superintendent.
(2) Office of the Secretary, the duties of which may be in whole or in part, contracted to be
performed by the County of Cook, under the direction and general supervision of the General
Superintendent or the Secretary.
(3) Legal Department, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief Attorney.

Page 5 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

(4) Finance and Administration, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief Financial
Officer, who also shall be deemed the Treasurer.
(5) Resource Management Department, under the direction and general supervision of the Director
of Resource Management.
(6) Landscape Maintenance Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Landscape Maintenance.
(7) Facilities and Fleet Maintenance Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Facilities and Fleet Maintenance.
(7) (8) Planning and Development Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Planning and Development.
(8) (9) Department of Law Enforcement, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief of
Police.
(9) (10) Permits, Concessions, and Volunteer Resources, and Recreation Department, under the
direction and general supervision of the Director of Permits, Concessions, and Recreation,
Volunteer Resources and Permits.
(10) (11) Human Resources, under the direction and general supervision of the Director of Human
Resources.
(12) Conservation and Experiential Programming Department, under the direction and general
supervision of the Director of Conservation and Experiential Programming.
*****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0245
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 8 Section 2 - District Finances
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 1 Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 2 - Contracts and Purchases of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
1-8-2: - CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
A. Conditions and Restrictions on Awarding a Contract:
*****
2.

Restrictions on Awarding a Contract: No person or business entity shall be awarded a contract or
subcontract with the Forest Preserve District, for a period of five (5) years from the date of
conviction or entry of a plea or admission of guilt, if that person or business entity:
Page 6 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

a.

Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State, of bribery or attempting to bribe an
officer or employee of a unit of State or local government or school district in the State in
that officer's or employee's official capacity;

b.

Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State, of bid-rigging or attempting to rig
bids as defined in the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and Clayton Act;

c.

Has been convicted of bid-rigging or attempting to rig bids under the laws of the State;

d.

Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State of Illinois, of price-fixing or
attempting to fix prices as defined by the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and Clayton Act;

e.

Has been convicted of price-fixing or attempting to fix prices under the laws of the State of
Illinois;

f.

Has been convicted of defrauding or attempting to defraud any unit of State or local
government or school district within the State of Illinois;

g.

Has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of
committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act,
820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Employee
Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C.
201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the
payment of wages;

gh. Has made an admission of guilt of such conduct as set forth in subparagraphs a. through fg.
above, which admission is a matter of record, whether or not such person or business entity
was subject to prosecution for the offense or offenses admitted to;
hi. Has entered a plea of nolo contendere to charges of bribery, price-fixing, bid-rigging, fraud,
or wage theft as set forth in subparagraphs a. through gf. above.
3.

Disqualification of Business Entity: A person or business entity shall be disqualified if:
a.

It is convicted, or enters a plea of nolo contendere, or makes an admission of guilt to any act
described in subparagraphs 2.a. through 2.hi. above.

*****
4. Exceptions: If a person or business entity is ineligible to contract with the District due to the
provisions of Section 1-8-2.A.2.g above, then the person or business entity seeking the contract
may submit a request for a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period to the Purchasing
Agent. The request shall be in writing in a manner and form prescribed by the Purchasing Agent
and shall include that one or more of the following actions have been taken:
a.

There has been a bona fide change in ownership or control of the ineligible business entity;

b.

Disciplinary action has been taken against the individual(s) responsible for the acts giving
rise to the violation;

c.

Remedial action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of the acts giving rise to the
disqualification or default; or

d. Other factors that the person or business entity believes are relevant.
Page 7 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

The Purchasing Agent shall review the documentation submitted, make any inquiries deemed necessary,
request additional documentation where warranted and determine whether a reduction or waiver is
appropriate. Should the Purchasing Agent determine that a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period is
appropriate; the Purchasing Agent shall submit its decision and findings to the District Board.
In addition, a using department may request an exception to such period of ineligibility with respect to a
particular contract by submitting a written request to the Purchasing Agent, supported by facts that establish
that it is in the best interests of the District that the contract be made from such ineligible person or business
entity. The Purchasing Agent shall review the documentation, make any inquiries deemed necessary, and
determine whether the request should be approved. If an exception is granted, such exception shall apply to
that contract only and the period of ineligibility shall continue for its full term as to any other contract. Said
exceptions granted by the Purchasing Agent shall be communicated to the District Board.
45. Voiding Contracts: Any contract or subcontract found to have been awarded in violation of this
subsection shall be voidable at discretion of the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners.
Payment for work completed at the time of any such voiding shall be at a quantum merit rate less
a twenty-five (25) percent liquidated damage reserve.
56. Hearing: The determination as to whether a Person is disqualified under any provision of this
Section 1-8-2 of the District's Code or has made a false statement, shall be made pursuant to the
Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX, of the
Cook County Code.
76. Appeals: Decisions of the Cook County Administrative Hearing Department shall be subject to
review pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
87. Bids to Contain Information Herein: Specifications for all bids shall contain the information
contained in this subsection and bidders shall certify that they have read the information
contained herein and are not in violation thereof.
*****
V. Disqualification Due to Prior Default or Termination:
*****
DD. Selection of Professional Services for Debt Transactions:
1. Selection.
(a) For each debt transaction or for multiple debt transactions the Chief Financial Officer shall
select three or more firms from the qualified list developed by the District and/or Cook County for
each of the following, as required for the transaction: bond counsel, underwriter counsel, special
tax counsel, pension-disclosure counsel, and financial advisor.
(b) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the law firms under consideration to
provide legal services submit a proposal which shall include at least the following: experience with
the relevant type of financing; knowledge of the District; the key personnel to be assigned for the
engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or fee structure for the
engagement; the firm's capacity for, experience in, and commitment to providing continuing legal
advice and support in such areas as compliance and taxation; and the manner and degree to which
the firm will use an engagement on the contemplated financing initiative to promote or incubate the
participation of minorities, women, and veterans as legal professionals, on the potential
engagement.
Page 8 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

(c) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the firms under consideration for
investment banking services submit a proposal which shall include at least the following:
experience with the particular type of financing; a recommended strategy for identifying and
targeting investors in the bonds or notes; knowledge of the District; the key personnel to be
assigned for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or fee
structure for the engagement; and the manner in and degree to which the firm will use an
engagement on the contemplated financing initiative to promote or incubate the participation of
minorities, women, and veterans as finance professionals, on any potential engagement.
(d) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the financial advisors under consideration
to provide financial-advisory services submit a proposal which shall include at least the following:
experience with the particular type of financing; knowledge of the District; the key personnel to be
assigned for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees for
the engagement; the firm's capacity for, experience in, and commitment to providing advice and
support in such areas as pricing and marketing of municipal bonds; and the manner in and degree to
which the firm will use an engagement on the contemplated financing to promote or incubate the
participation of minorities, women, and veterans as finance professionals, on the potential
engagement.
(e) To redress the historical under-representation of minority- and woman-owned firms in the
financial services arena, in the selection of law firms, investment banks, and financial advisors
associated with bond issuances, it shall be the continued goal of the District that:
(1)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative remunerated portion of
legal services associated with a financing initiative shall be provided by law firms
that are certified as MBEs or WBEs under District’s Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance and that consistently maintain and
staff a functional commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL; and

(2)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative underwriting liability in a
financing initiative shall be undertaken by investment banks that are at least 51
percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more persons who are either a
minority or a woman and that consistently maintain and staff a functional
commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL; and

(3)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative remunerated portion of
financial-advisory services associated with a financing initiative shall be provided
by financial-advisor firms that are at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and
managed by one or more persons who are either a minority or a woman and that
consistently maintain and staff a functional commercial presence and office in
Cook County, IL.

(f) The Chief Financial Officer shall recommend to the President the selection of legal counsel,
investment banks, financial advisors, and other professionals based upon the proposals provided
per this subdivision. In making the recommendation, the Chief Financial Officer shall consider
methods to give multiple firms a fair opportunity to compete for and participate in District bond
sales. The selection shall be made by the President upon the recommendation of the Chief Financial
Officer, and shall be submitted to the District Board for approval. The Chief Financial Officer shall
report to the District Board a summary of the rationale of any proposed financing initiative; the
financial benefits of a proposed financing approach with regards to the District's long-term fiscal
health; a summary of the financing team proposed to work on the financing initiative; an
identification of any firms that are certified as MBEs or WBEs or 51 percent owned, controlled, and
Page 9 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

managed by minority individuals or women; the total estimated participation of such firms as a
percentage of professional services (comprised of legal and financial advisory services) and as a
percentage of underwriting liability; and, on financing initiatives where circumstances are such that
the 35 percent goals set forth in Subsection (e) cannot be prudently reached, an explanation of such
circumstances. The proposals by firms selected to work on a financing initiative shall be available
for review by members of the District Board.
2.Specific bond underwriter requirements. Each contract between the District and any bond underwriters
shall include the following:
(a) The underwriter shall use its best efforts to assure that the District meets its objectives in the fair
and reasonable allocation of bond selling commissions to members of the underwriting syndicate,
particularly to Cook County and minority- and women-owned firms; and
(b) The underwriter shall report the allocation of bond selling commissions and fees received by
each member of the underwriting syndicate to the Chief Financial Officer within 30 days of closing
of the bond issue; and
(c) The underwriter shall comply with all limitations or disclosure requirements concerning
political contributions that are or may be imposed by the Municipal Securities Regulatory Board or
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Failure by the underwriter to comply with this provision
shall not void the sale, but the underwriter may be subject to disqualification.
3. Continued Management of Bond Proceeds.
(a) When permissible and practicable under related bond ordinances, debt instruments, and debt
agreements, the Chief Financial Officer shall maintain investment of bond proceeds in accord with:
(1) The Illinois Public Funds Investment Act; or
(2)

Such policies as are promulgated by the Chief Financial Officer, following
submission to the District Board.

(b) In selecting financial institutions to serve as broker-dealers in acquiring investments of bond
proceeds under this Section, the Chief Financial Officer shall, for each contemplated investment,
elicit proposals from at least three broker-dealers deemed qualified under policies and procedures
promulgated by the Chief Financial Officer, the State of Illinois, or the City of Chicago.
(c) In the selection of broker-dealers under this Section, it shall be the continued goal of the District
that no less than 35 percent of the cumulative value of the proposed investment purchased in a
given fiscal year shall be consummated by one or more broker-dealers that consistently maintain
and staff a functional commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL and are at least 51
percent owned, controlled, and managed by minority individuals or women.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...

Page 10 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

15-0248
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 4 Recreation in Forest Preserves
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 2
– Forest Preserve Land and Property, Chapter 4 – Recreation in Forest Preserves, Section 2 Picnics of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
2-4-2: PICNICS EVENTS REQUIRING PERMITS.
No person shall use any portion of the Forest Preserve District property nor any of the buildings within said
District for the purposes of meeting or holding picnics to the exclusion of any other person or persons from
such portion of the property or buildings of the District without having first obtained a permit in writing
from the District, with proper authorization of the General Superintendent or his designee. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each offense.
A. Permits, Non-profit organization reduced rate.
1.

2.

For any Special Use Permit for a special event or special activity field permit for a
special event or special activity with participation in excess of 25 persons, or
requested in conjunction with an event under Category W, Category X, Category
Y, Category Z of the Fee Schedule, the total of all applicable fees as calculated by
the Recreation Department of the Forest Preserve District shall be reduced by 50
percent, when the applicant is a school or bona fide nonprofit organization,
residing in the County of Cook.
A bona fide nonprofit organization is one which is engaged in charitable,
educational, civic, youth and faith-based activities. For purposes of qualifying for
the Nonprofit Organization Reduced Rate, an applicant must submit proof of the
following:
a. Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
b. Current registration with the Illinois Attorney General as a charitable
organization;
c. The location of the official headquarters or administrative office of the
organization submitting the request for said permit is located in the
County of Cook and is the same as that which is on file with the Illinois
Attorney General, or was submitted for exemption under Section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, except in the case of local chapters of
national organizations, wherein the local chapter maintains a Cook County
office and submits proof of affiliation with the national organization.

3.

If the applicant is a school located within Cook County, no additional documentation or
proof of nonprofit status shall be required other than a letter signed by an official of the
school stating that the activity/event is officially sanctioned under and supervised by
employee(s) of the school.
Page 11 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

4.

Notwithstanding any other published deadlines, all applications for Reduced Rate Special
Use or Special Activity Field Permits must be received by the Recreation Department no
less than 45 days prior to the date of the Special Event or Activity.

5.

Vending of food or merchandise is not allowed under Reduced Rate Special Use or Special
Activity Field Permits, except for charitable organization with nest assets of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or less who apply for the vending fee permit waiver. Qualification for
the vending fee permit waiver requires registration with the Illinois Attorney General's
office as a charitable organization, and submission of a balance statement for the previous
year to verify its assets as the time of application for a permit. all other permits for events
that include vending and/or sale of food or merchandise shall be charged at the full rate.

6. Effective Date: This subsection takes effect January 1, 2009.
A. Classifications of Uses. There are some uses of District property that, because of their nature, are
allowed only with a permit. Through the permit application and review process, the District can determine
whether these uses can be conducted in a manner that protects public safety, District property, the District’s
objectives and goals for the District property sought to be used, and the rights and interest of other members
of the public. These uses are identified below in Section 2-4-2(B) – Permit Required. Uses that require a
fee other than a permit fee (e.g. license fee) are described where applicable in the District’s Code of
Ordinances.
B. Permit Required. No person shall use any portion of the Forest Preserve District property nor any of the
buildings within said District, for any of the following uses, unless the person has first obtained, and has
physical possession of, a permit allowing such use in writing from the District, with proper authorization of
the General Superintendent or his or her designee, or when required, the Board of Commissioners, in
accordance with Section 7-1-1 Fees:
1. a picnic or other gathering with 25 or more people;
2.

any use on District property, if the District property is not open to the general public at the
time of the proposed use;
Cross References: Hours of Operation, §2-4-1; Entering Buildings or Areas Closed to
Public or Scheduled for Specific Group or Activity,§ 3-3-11

3.

uses that are intended or likely to either exclude or interfere with use of or enjoyment by
other members of the public of a particular area of District property, including, weddings,
receptions, meetings, assemblies, parades, marches, drills, maneuvers, rallies, pickets,
speeches, and/or addresseses involving 25 or more people;

4.

conducting shows, exhibits, dramatic or musical performances, plays, acts, or motion
pictures;

5.

taking any still or motion pictures or painting or drawing pictures for commercial
purposes or for use in commercial advertising;

6.

play or operate any sound amplification device including radios, television sets, public
address systems, musical instruments, and the like; or operate any other energy
amplification device in such a way as to be audible beyond the immediate vicinity of such
device or musical instrument or in such a manner as to disturb picnic areas or other public
gathering places;
Page 12 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Cross Reference: Disorderly Conduct, §3-3-1
7.

or conduct organized contests or sports, including any team sport or game such as baseball,
football, field hockey, volleyball, lacrosse, soccer, track or horseshoes;
Cross Reference: Sports and Games, §2-4-3

8.

conducting day camps or play camps, or other organized activities for a group; or

Cross Reference: Day Camps, §3-3-16
9.

any use of or on District property that requires a permit under other sections of the
District’s Code.
Cross References:
Fees and Occupancy of District Lands, §1-9-3
Use of Balloons, Airplanes, and Parachutes, §2-1-1
Protection of Native Landscape, §2-2-1
Erection and Ownership of Structures, §2-3-1
Glass Beverage Container Ordinance, § 2-3-8
Alcoholic Beverages, §3-3-2
Discharging Toy Firearms, 3-3-6
Fireworks, §3-3-7
Injury or Destruction to Forest Preserve property, §3-3-14
Snowmobile: Permit to Operate, §4-4-2
Railroads,§ 5-1-4
General License and Permit Provisions,§ 6-1-1 et seq.
Permit Required, §6-2-1
Fee Schedules, §7-1-1

C. Permit Rules and Application Review.
1. Establishment of Rules. In addition to the rules identified in this Ordinance, the
General Superintendent may promulgate additional rules governing a permit or the permit
application and review process (the “Rules”) if those rules are designed:
(i)

to protect or minimize damage to District property and the flora and fauna
within the District;

(ii)

to protect the physical safety of people using District property;

(iii)

to minimize the interference by the proposed use with the use and
enjoyment of District property by others;

(iv) to ensure an orderly and organized use of District property; or
(v) to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
2.

Duration of Permit. The District may, in its discretion, make the permit valid for a period of
less than one year, or any portion thereof, or on an annual basis; provided, however, that
the fees charged are consistent with Title 7, Chapter 1 (Fee Schedule) of the District’s Code
Page 13 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

of Ordinances. Permits are not transferable and permit fees paid to the District are not
refundable. The actual permit (not an electronic copy) must be available for inspection at
and during the event/activity for which the permit was acquired.
3.

Compliance with Rules. The person or entity to whom or which a permit has been issued
shall comply with all applicable laws and Rules. The District may revoke a permit for any
violation of such laws or Rules. Any misuse or damage to District property will be the
responsibility of the permit holder. The District may keep part or all of a permit holder’s
security deposit to remedy damage to District property.
Cross References: General Penalty and Late Fee, § 1-4-1(D); Application of
Provisions, §1-4-2; Limitation of Remedial Action, §3-3-20; Revocation of
Licenses or Permits, §6-1-4

4.

Special Conditions. In the case of permits for events which may require special law
enforcement services, or which would place an atypical burden on District resources , or
which increase the District’s liability exposure, the General Superintendent may (1)
authorize additional fees to be imposed to cover the cost of such special law enforcement
services, or atypical burden; and/or (2) require the permit applicant to provide liability
insurance naming the District as an additional insured with coverage limits reasonably
necessary to protect the District.

5.

District's Reserved Right. Even if a permit has been granted, the District reserves the right
to restrict access to or close any District property temporarily or to revoke a permit because
of (i) a threat to the safety of those using such property, including threats posed by the
weather, or (ii) potential damage to sensitive natural resource areas, or (iii) interference by
the permittee with the use and enjoyment of District property by others.
Cross Reference: Limitation of Remedial Action, §3-3-20

6.

Review of Application. The District shall grant the permit unless it determines that:
(i)

the proposed use would interfere or be inconsistent with (a) the District's current or
designated use of the District property upon which the proposed use would take
place, (b) the District's future plans for the District property upon which the
proposed use would take place, or (c) a license issued by the District for the use of
the District property upon which the proposed use would take place;

(ii)

the proposed use may materially damage District property or materially impact
sensitive natural resource areas;

(iii)

the proposed use will delay, hinder, or prevent the District's implementation of
planning for the District property;

(iv)

the proposed use will interfere with other scheduled or existing uses of the District
property sought to be used or would occur at a time when the District property
sought to be used is not open to the public;

(v)

the proposed use violates federal, state or local laws or Rules;

(vi)

the proposed use poses a substantial threat or danger to public safety or, if it is a
contest or sporting event, poses a reasonable likelihood of physical injury;
Page 14 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

(vii)

the applicant has misrepresented, falsified, or withheld required information;

(viii)

the applicant has, within the previous year, violated this Ordinance or Rules and,
based on such violation(s), the applicant's future use of District property may
interfere with others' use and enjoyment of District property;
Cross Reference: Limitation on Remedial Action, §3-3-20

(ix)

the applicant still owes the District damages or outstanding fee(s) for prior event(s)
held by applicant on District property; or
Cross Reference: General Penalty and Late Fee, § 1-4-1(D)

(x)

D.

the proposed use would interfere with others' enjoyment and use of District
property.

Reduced Rate Permits. For any event, activity, and/or use for which a permit is required,
the permit fee shall be reduced as follows: (1) by 50 percent, when the applicant is a school
or bona fide nonprofit organization, residing in the County of Cook; and (2) by 50 percent,
when the applicant is a veterans’ organization residing in the County of Cook.
1. Non-Veteran Non-Profit Organizations. A bona fide nonprofit organization is
one which is engaged in charitable, educational, civic, youth and faith-based
activities. For purposes of qualifying for the reduced rate, an applicant must
submit proof of the following:
(i)
Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
or current registration with the Illinois Attorney General as a
charitable organization; and
(ii)
The location of the official headquarters or administrative office
of the organization submitting the request for said permit is
located in the County of Cook and is the same as that which is on
file with the Illinois Attorney General, or was submitted for
exemption under Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code,
except in the case of local chapters of national organizations,
wherein the local chapter maintains a Cook County office and
submits proof of affiliation with the national organization.
If the applicant is a school located within Cook County, no additional
documentation or proof of nonprofit status shall be required other than a letter
signed by an official of the school stating that the activity, event, and/or use is
officially sanctioned under and supervised by employee(s) of the school.
2.Veterans Organizations. Veterans organizations include, but are not limited to;
the Retired Enlisted Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and American
Legion. An applicant must submit proof of the following:
(i)

Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and

(ii)

The location of the official headquarters or administrative office
of the organization submitting the request for said permit is
located in the County of Cook and is the same as that which was
submitted for exemption under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19)
Page 15 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

of the Internal Revenue Code, except in the case of local
chapters of national organizations, wherein the local chapter
maintains a Cook County office and submits proof of affiliation
with the national organization.
3.Costs Not Waived. Any rate reduction shall not apply to applicable application
fees, cost of District provided security, and vending.
4.Deadlines. Notwithstanding any other published deadlines, all applications for
permits at a reduced rate must be received by the District no less than 45 days prior
to the date of the event, activity, and/or use, unless such time period is otherwise
waived by the General Superintendent.
Cross Reference: Fees, §7-1-1
E. Penalties. Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this Section (excluding Section
2-4-2(B)(9)) shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, plus the actual permit fee(s) which would have been charged had the person or
entity properly obtained the permit. If a permit is required under another section of the District’s Code per
Section 2-4-2(B)(9), then a violation of such requirement shall be fined in accordance with such other
section of the District’s Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0249
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 4 Recreation in Forest Preserves
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 2
– Forest Preserve Land and Property, Chapter 4 – Recreation in Forest Preserves, Section 2 Boating of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
2-4-5: BOATING.
A. General Restrictions: No person shall bring into, use or navigate any boat, yacht, canoe, kayak or
paddle board; plastic, canvass or rubber raft, inner-tube, sail-surf board or other watercraft upon any
watercourse, lagoon, lake, pond or slough under the exclusive control of the Forest Preserve District,
except at such place or places as may be provided or designated for such purpose by administrative
order of the General Superintendent and in accordance with rules and regulations.
*****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 16 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

15-0250
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 3
– Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Disorderly Conduct of the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
3-3-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
*****
10. All persons who engage in behavior that intimidates others or interferes with or unreasonably
disrupts others in the normal use of the Forest Preserves, that occurs as a result of intoxication,
drunkenness or the influence of alcoholic beverage(s), drug(s), controlled substance(s) or
intoxicating compounds(s) Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics or other drug, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that he/she may endanger
himself/herself or other persons or property, or annoy persons in his/her vicinity; shall be deemed
guilty of disorderly conduct and upon conviction thereof shall be deemed guilty of disorderly
conduct.
*****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0251
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 3
– Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Limitation on Remedial Action of
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
3-3-20: LIMITATION ON REMEDIAL ACTION.
*****
B. Notwithstanding, the foregoing provision of Subsection A. of this Section, where the violation of the
Code or the Permit is the distribution of alcoholic if beverages, the remedial action of the Forest preserve
District Police Force shall include ordering curtailment of such distribution the Forest Preserve District
Police Force can take remedial action including ordering curtailment of the picnic, event, or other activity
taking place, regardless of whether any prior violation of the Code or Permits has taken place, in the
following instances:
(i) the violation of the Code or the Permit is the distribution or sale of alcoholic beverages;
Page 17 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

(ii) imminent threat of grave harm to persons or property, including threats posed by the weather;
(iii) potential damage to sensitive natural resource areas; or
(iv) interference by the permittee with the use and enjoyment of District property by others.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0252
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
3 - Police Regulations, Chapter 3 - Miscellaneous Misconduct, (New) Section 3-3-25 Possession of Drug
Paraphernalia of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
(New) 3-3-25: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
A. Definitions. Drug paraphernalia means all items, equipment, products and materials of any kind
which may be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human
body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et
seq.) and the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.). It includes, but is not limited
to, pipes, bongs, rolling papers and any other item converted for the uses set forth above.
B. Violation. No person shall possess, bring onto or use drug paraphernalia on District property.
C. Penalty.
1. Any person violating Subsection (B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
2. Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the possession of drug paraphernalia
in violation of Subsection (B) shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to Section 3-4-1
of this Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0253
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 3
– Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Alcoholic Beverages of the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Page 18 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Section 3-3-2 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
A. Words and Terms Defined: The term "alcoholic beverage(s)" in this provision is used to include
products of or containing alcohol, alcoholic liquor or intoxicating liquor. Except for products
one-half (½) of one (1) percent, or less, of alcohol by volume.
Alcohol means the products of distillation of any fermented liquid, but does not include denatured
alcohol or wood alcohol.
Alcoholic liquor includes products of or containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer for human
consumption as a beverage.
Beer means a beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other
grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among other things, beer, ale, and stout.
Spirits means beverages which contain alcohol obtained by distillation and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural contents of fruits
and vegetables, except wine intended for use and used by any church or religious organization for
sacramental purposes.
B. Sale of Alcoholic Beverages: The sale of alcoholic beverages is allowed on District land only
under the following circumstances:
1. Alcoholic beverages may be sold in connection with the operation of the facilities of the Chicago
Zoological Society or the Chicago Horticultural Society on land owned by the District.
2. Alcoholic beverages may be sold on any land used for a golf course owned by the District,
pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Special Use Permit, duly approved by the Board.
3. Subject to the requirements described below, alcoholic beverages may be sold in connection with
authorized events held on District property for recreational purposes where the consumption or
possession of alcohol is not prohibited.
(a) Requests for permits for the sale of alcoholic beverages on District property must be
initiated by completing an application for a Special Use Permit;
(b) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has a license or permit
to sell alcoholic beverages from the city, village, or incorporated town in which alcoholic
beverages are proposed to be sold; or issued by the Cook County Liquor Commissioner if
alcoholic beverages are proposed to be sold within unincorporated Cook County; for the
time, date, and place of event for which the permit allowing sale of alcoholic beverages is
requested;
(c) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has license or permit to
sell alcoholic beverages from the State of Illinois for the time, date, and place of event for
which the permit allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages is requested; and
(d) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has dram shop liability
insurance at maximum coverage limits so as to hold the District harmless from all financial
loss, damage, and harm.
Page 19 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

For clarification, alcohol may be deemed to be sold if given away free with paid for item,
depending on applicable facts and circumstances.
C. Application:
1. Except as to those instances where the issuance of a Special Use Permit for the sale of
alcoholic beverages has otherwise been approved by the Board, requests for said Permits
shall be initiated by completing and filing an application on a form provided by the
District. Failure to furnish information required in said application or furnishing
incomplete or false information, in said application, shall constitute a basis for the denial of
said application.
2. Each application shall be signed and verified by oath or affirmation by the Applicant, if
a natural person, or in the case of an association, by a member or partner thereof, or, in the
case of a corporation, by an executive officer thereof or any person specifically authorized
by the corporation to sign the application.
3. Each application shall be accompanied with a nonrefundable application fee in an
amount determined by the Board.
DC. Possession and Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages: Except as stated herein, the possession
or consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted in or upon the District's land, property or
facilities, provided that:
1. The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage does not violate any provision
of this Code or any federal, state, or local law; and
2. The quantity of the alcoholic beverages is for the personal use and consumption of the
possessor, his family members or his guests; and
3. The possession, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in or upon the
District's land, property or facilities where the District's Board of Commissioners (the
"Board") or its General Superintendent has so provided; and
4. The consumption of any alcoholic beverage is prohibited upon or within fifty (50) feet of
any roadway or within any area designated for parking by the District.
ED. Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 20 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

15-0254
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 9 Section 3 - Fees and Occupancy of District Lands.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 1 - Administrative, Chapter
9 - Land Acquisitions and Dedications, Section 3 - Fees and Occupancy of District Lands of the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
1-9-3: - FEES AND OCCUPANCY OF DISTRICT LANDS.
A. Occupancy by Other than Forest Preserve District Employees: Hereafter, all leases, privileges and
occupancy must be requested by the applicant from the Board of Forest Preserve Commissioners, and
no leases or permits of occupancy shall be given without first having the approval of the Board.
B.

Resident District Employees: Employee occupancy shall be governed as follows:
1.

All Employees occupying residences are required and must agree to perform the following duties.
a.

Must be thoroughly familiar with District boundaries within their assigned area and make
periodic inspections to make certain that District property is protected and report any
prohibited or illegal activity and encroachments.

b.

Be on constant watch for fires. During times of extreme fire dangers, must be available to
report for fire duty. All watchman residents must be fire certified as a burn crew member and
be in possession of the issued personal fire protection gear, flapper and/or backpack pump.

c.

Check all bodies of water; clean up all minor debris; check all facilities for vandalism; and
during the appropriate seasons check area frequently for illegal hunters.

d.

Complete and submit Resident Watchman Report on a bi-monthly basis.

e.

Must be constantly aware that as a public employee residing on public lands assistance must
be offered to those visitors who need and request help and/or information. Must ensure that
the District provided sign indicating that the residence is a Watchman Residence is
prominently posted at all times.

2.

All occupants of District residences will pay utilities costs (heat, electric, water and sewage).

3.

An employee granted permission to occupy a Residence that is attached to a District facility shall
pay an occupancy fee of Four Hundred and sixty-eight dollars ($468.00) per month.

4.

An employee granted permission to occupy a Residence that is adjacent to a District facility shall
pay an occupancy fee of Five Hundred and eighty-five dollars ($585.00) per month.

5.

An employee granted permission to occupy a Free Standing residence shall pay an occupancy fee
of Seven Hundred and two dollars ($702.00) per month.
Page 21 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

6.

Every two years, subject to approval for renewal of the Occupancy Agreement, every resident
will sign a new agreement with any changes that have been voted upon by the Housing
Committee and approved by the General Superintendent. Any fee increase will commence at this
time based on the Consumer Price Index added to the current fee and incorporated into the new
Occupancy Agreement.

7.

All fees collected will be placed into a Special Revenue fund, which will be used to maintain the
major repairs of the residences and/or build standard maintenance facilities with an attached
apartment. A house that has been deemed obsolete or is a burden to the District will be authorized
for demolition.

8.

The Housing Committee shall conduct no less than one annual inspection of all residences. If a
house has been deemed by the Housing Committee to be obsolete or a burden to the District, a
recommendation for demolition will be presented to the Board of Commissioners. The Housing
Committee may authorize random inspections of each residence in the Housing Program as
deemed necessary to maintain the integrity of the program and compliance with the terms of the
Occupancy Agreement.

9.

All residents will be responsible for "Minor Maintenance" and the Forest Preserve District will be
responsible for "Major Maintenance", as each term is defined in the Occupancy Agreement.

10. This section, relating to Fees and Occupancy of District Lands, shall be re-evaluated by the
Housing Committee and reported to the General Superintendent on an annual basis. An Annual
Report, which will include any recommended changes, shall be placed on the Agenda of the
March meeting of the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners.
11. Those employees who retire or resign from employment with the District shall be required to
vacate the premises within a reasonable time, not to exceed sixty (60) days after their last day of
employment. Retirees and employees who resign shall be responsible for paying all required fees.
12. Widows/Widowers of employees shall be required to vacate the premises within a reasonable
period of time, not to exceed six (6) months after the spouse's demise, provided widows/widowers
are appropriately indicated in the Occupancy Agreement. Widows/Widowers shall be responsible
for paying all required fees, but shall not be responsible for providing services of the Occupancy
Agreement.
13. The General Superintendent shall establish policies and procedures for the occupancy of District
residences as set forth in the Resident Watchman Program Manual. The General Superintendent
has the discretion to add or subtract any task necessary to assist in the mission statement of the
Forest Preserve District.
14. A Housing Committee shall be appointed and designated by the General Superintendent.
15. The performance of all duties and responsibilities of the resident watchman as set forth in the
Occupancy Agreement shall be monitored by the Housing Committee. Failure to perform or to
adhere to the terms of the Occupancy Agreement by the resident watchman and authorized
occupants of the District residence may result in termination of the Occupancy Agreement.
16. The Forest Preserve District Superintendent shall place on the agenda of the March meeting of the
Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners an Annual report to the Forest Preserve Board
of Commissioners listing the names of employees occupying forest preserve homes for part or all
Page 22 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

of the fiscal year, as well as their job titles and salaries. In addition, the report shall contain copies
of all watchman reports filed by employees occupying forest preserve homes.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

15-0255
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 3 Chapter 3 Section 16 - Games and Sports
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 3 - Police Regulations,
Chapter 3 - Miscellaneous Conduct, Section 16 - Games and Sports of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
3-3-16: - GAMES AND SPORTS.
A. Skating, Sledding and Skiing in a Reckless Manner: No person shall skate, skateboard, sled or
ski in any part of the Forest Preserve in a reckless manner, or at the speed greater than is reasonable
and proper, having due regard to the number of people in such part of the Forest Preserve System
and the use thereof, or so as to endanger life or limb, or damage the property of any person;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any exhibition of,
or contests in, fast or fancy skating on such portions of any ice pond or rink as may be set aside for
that purpose by the General Superintendent or his/her designee. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Subsection shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
B.Golf: All persons are hereby prohibited from practicing and playing golf upon any forest
preserve except upon the designated public golf links of Forest Preserve at the times and in the
areas as may be designated by the General Superintendent. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Subsection shall be fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
C.Bicycling: Persons may operate a bicycle only on paths, trails, roadways or other areas
designated for bicycle use. Any person operating a bicycle on forest preserve property other than on
paths, trails, roadways or other areas designated for bicycle use, shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Persons operating bicycles must ride on the right-hand side of such path, trail, roadway or other
area designated for bicycle use by the General Superintendent. No person may operate a bicycle
while carrying another person on the handlebars, frame or fender, or so ride on a bicycle, except in
a suitable seat attached to such bicycle for such purpose. No person may operate a bicycle in a
reckless manner so as to endanger pedestrians. No person shall cling or attach himself/herself or
his/her bicycle to any other moving vehicle. The operator of a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians on walkways and to all vehicles on roadways, and shall walk his/her bicycle in all
areas where riding is prohibited by the General Superintendent, as indicated by sign or notice. The
operator of a bicycle shall give an audible warning, by horn, bell, voice or otherwise, when
approaching any pedestrian from behind. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Subsection shall be fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
Page 23 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

DC.Day Camps: Day camps, play classes or organized groups not sponsored by the Forest Preserve
may use facilities of the Forest Preserve when not in conflict with the Forest Preserve recreational
program, with the approval of the General Superintendent.
(Ord. No. 11-O-10, 7-13-11)
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...end

15-0256
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 4 Chapter 3 Section 1 - Operation of Bicycles
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 4 - Motor Vehicles and
Traffic, Chapter 3 - Bicycles, Section 1 - Operation of Bicycles of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
4-3-1: - OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
A.Bicycles shall be operated as closely to the right-hand curb or right-hand side of the path, trail or
roadway as conditions will permit and not more than two (2) bicycles shall be operated abreast or
side by side.
B.It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bicycle when upon the path, trail or roadway, to carry
any other person upon the handlebar or frame of any such bicycle, or for any person to so ride upon
any such bicycle.
C.Bicycles shall not be operated upon any path, trail or roadway where the operation of bicycles
has been prohibited or in any manner that has been prohibited by order of the Board of
Commissioners or the General Superintendent and signs have been erected indicating such
prohibition.
D.No person age 14 or under shall operate a bicycle nor ride upon a bicycle on Cook County Forest
Preserve property, bikeway, or trail unless that person is wearing a properly fitted and fastened
protective helmet that meets the standards promulgated by either: The American National
Standards Institute, the American Society for Testing, the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission, or the Snell Memorial Foundation, Inc., or standards subsequently established by
those entities. This requirement also applies to a person who rides upon a bicycle while in a
restraining seat that is attached to the bicycle or in a trailer towed by the bicycle.
E.A violation of this ordinance is an infraction punishable by the following: first violation will be a
warning; second violation will be a fine of $10.00; and each additional violation will be a fine of
$25.00. The parent or legal guardian having control or custody of an unemancipated minor age 14
or under whose conduct violates this ordinance shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor
age 14 or under for the amount of the fine imposed.
F.Fines collected for a violation of this ordinance shall be deposited in a special account of the
Cook County Forest Preserve District to be used for bicycle safety education and for assisting
low-income families in obtaining approved bicycle helmets for children under the age of 14 years.
Page 24 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

G.The Cook County Forest Preserve District shall create and implement a bicycle education safety
program that at a minimum includes: outreach to schools; development and distribution of an
informational brochure; placement of safety information on the District's website; appropriate
signage in Forest Preserves; and four educational programs per year.
H.The Cook County Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners has a desire to assure that all
children have access to bicycle helmets regardless of their economic situations. To address this
concern, the Forest Preserve District will develop a bicycle helmet rebate program in partnership
with appropriate non-profit groups for qualified, low-income applicants. Proof of income,
residency, and purchase must be provided. Eligibility for this program is based on Federal Poverty
Guidelines.
To support this rebate program, the District will establish a designated account that can accept
charitable donations and look for private, corporate, and organizational partners that would be
willing to make financial contributions to the program. Additionally, fine collected in violation of
this ordinance can be used for the rebate program.
(Ord. No. 2003-O-07-02-05, 5-5-04)
A.

General: Persons may operate a bicycle only on paths, trails, roadways or other areas
designated for bicycle use. Persons operating bicycles must ride on the right-hand side of
such path, trail, roadway or other area designated for bicycle use by the General
Superintendent. Not more than two (2) bicycles shall be operated abreast or side by side.
No person may operate a bicycle while carrying another person on the handlebars, frame
or fender, or so ride on a bicycle, except in a suitable seat attached to such bicycle for such
purpose. No person may operate a bicycle in a reckless manner so as to endanger
pedestrians. No person shall cling or attach himself/herself or his/her bicycle to any other
moving vehicle. The operator of a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians on
walkways and to all vehicles on roadways, and shall walk his/her bicycle in all areas
where riding is prohibited by the General Superintendent, as indicated by sign or notice.
The operator of a bicycle shall give an audible warning, by horn, bell, voice or otherwise,
when approaching any pedestrian from behind.

B.

Motorized Bicycles. Persons may not use or ride within the District any electric or electric
assisted bicycle capable of exceeding a speed of 15 miles per hour. Any violation of this
provision shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars or more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. This section is not intended to prohibit any person with
mobility impairment(s) from using an electronic personal assistive mobility device.

4-3-2: - PENALTY.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...

Page 25 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

15-0258
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 6 Chapter 2 Section 1 – Hawkers and Peddlers Vending
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 6 - Business, License and
Permit Provisions, Chapter 2 - Hawkers and Peddlers Vending, Section 1 - Permit Required of the Forest
Preserves District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
6-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED 6-2-1: - PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall expose or offer for sale any articles or thing, or do any hawking or peddling within
or upon any of said preserves without first obtaining a permit from the District Board of
Commissioners.
(1989 Code) Outside of authorized District personnel in the performance of their job duties, no
person or organization shall upon or in connection with any District property: collect fees,
admission or cover charges, or display or offer for sale any articles, items or things, or conduct or
solicit any business, trade, occupation or profession without obtaining a valid vendor permit from
the General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve or his/her delegate, and then only in accordance
with the terms and conditions thereof, it being the intention of the District to control commercial
enterprises or sales on District lands. Nothing in this section shall preclude the (1) collection of
admission fees or cover charges, or the sale of articles, items or other things by an organization,
company or other entity for the purpose of fundraising for a charitable, humanitarian or benevolent
cause if the organization, company or other entity has obtained a special use permit for the event; or
(2) collection of compensation in connection with an entity or individual training, instructing, or
leading a fitness or athletic class involving five (5) or fewer individuals.”
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
.COMMISSIONERS

15-0303
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
AN AMENDMENT PROHIBITING THE USE OF TOBACCO AND MARIJUANA ON ALL
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY PROPERTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part 1 – General Ordinances,
Chapter 2 – Administration, Article IIII – County Board, Division 2. – Rules of Organization and
Procedure, Sections 3-3-21 – 3-3-23 are hereby amended as follows:
3-3-21: - SMOKING TOBACCO AND MARIJUANA USE POLICY FOR FOREST PRESERVE
DISTRICT FACILITIES AND PROPERTIES.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking Tobacco and Marijuana Use in Cook County Forest Preserve District
Facilities and Properties: The use of any tobacco or marijuana products in any form Smoking by
smoking, inhaling, exhaling, burning, consuming or carrying of any lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, vaporizer, snuff, snus, chewing tobacco or other lighted tobacco product in any other
Page 26 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

form ("smoking") is not permitted in any areas of any District FacilityProperty. This ban on
smoking applies to all public areas of District as well as all areas used only by District employees or
officials, including without limitation individual offices. This ban does not include facilities
utilized as private residences.
B.

Prohibition of Smoking Tobacco and Marijuana Use in District Vehicles: Smoking Tobacco and
Marijuana use is prohibited in all vehicles owned or leased by the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of an enclosed area of any
District Facility, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in the event
of an emergency evacuation of the District Facility. However, if the District operates District
Facilities within buildings owned by third parties and the District's use in those buildings is not
exclusive, this Subsection shall apply only insofar as it restricts the conduct of District employees.

DC.

Implementation: All appropriate District representatives, including the General Superintendent,
Superintendent of Maintenance and Operations, and all elected officials and the appropriate
personnel of the Chicago Zoological Society and the Chicago Horticultural Society shall
implement the foregoing policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for District Facilities. It is intended for this
Section to apply to District Facilities. However, to the extent that any provision of this Section is
less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the more restrictive provision shall
apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.

FD.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of Subsections 3-3-21.A., B., and C., shall be
fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).

3-3-22: - SMOKING POLICY FOR BROOKFIELD ZOO.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking in Brookfield Zoo: Smoking by inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any
lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any other form ("smoking") is not
permitted in any areas of any Brookfield Zoo, including, without limitation, those facilities housing
administrative offices, maintenance facilities, exhibits, and all enclosed and semi-enclosed areas of
the Brookfield Zoo. This ban on smoking applies to all public areas as well as all areas used only by
Brookfield Zoo employees or officials, including, without limitation, individual offices, except
smoking is permitted in those areas designated and identified with signs as smoking areas by the
Chicago Zoological Society.

B.

Prohibition of Smoking in Brookfield Zoo Vehicles: Smoking is prohibited in all vehicles owned or
leased by the Brookfield Zoo.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance to the
Brookfield Zoo, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in the event
of an emergency evacuation of the Brookfield Zoo.

D.

Implementation: All appropriate Brookfield Zoo representatives shall implement the foregoing
policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for the Brookfield Zoo. It is intended for
this Section to apply to Brookfield Zoo facilities. However, to the extent that any provision of this
Page 27 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Section is less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the more restrictive
provision shall apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.
F.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five
dollars ($75.00).

3-3-23: - SMOKING POLICY FOR CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking in Chicago Botanic Garden: Smoking by inhaling, exhaling, burning or
carrying any lighted cigarette, cigar, lighted pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any other
form ("smoking") is not permitted in any areas of any Chicago Botanic Garden facility, including,
without limitation, those facilities housing administrative offices, maintenance facilities, exhibits,
and all enclosed and semi-enclosed areas on the grounds of the Chicago Botanic Garden, except
smoking is permitted in those areas designated and identified with signs as smoking areas by the
Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Botanic Garden or the Executive Officer's designate. This
ban on applies to all public areas as well as all areas used only by Chicago Botanic Garden
employees or officials, including, without limitation, individual offices.

B.

Prohibition of Smoking in Chicago Botanic Garden Vehicles: is prohibited in all vehicles owned or
leased by the Chicago Botanic Garden.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance to the Chicago
Botanic Garden, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in the event
of an emergency evacuation of the Chicago Botanic Garden.

D.

Implementation: All appropriate Chicago Botanic Garden representatives shall implement the
foregoing policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for the Chicago Botanic Garden. It is
intended for this Section to apply to Chicago Botanic Garden facilities. However, to the extent that
any provision of this Section is less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the
more restrictive provision shall apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.

F.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five
dollars ($75.00).

Page 28 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT

15-0214 (see related file #15-0213)
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED SALE OR PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE
Department(s): Legal Department
Other Part(ies): The Catholic Bishop of Chicago, an Illinois Corporation Sole
Request: It is respectfully requested that this proposed purchase be approved.
Description of Real Estate: A PART OF 12375 McCARTHY ROAD, PALOS PARK, ILLINOIS Lot 1 of
Holy Family Villa Subdivision, located in part of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) and the East Half E1/2) of
the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 25, Township 37 North, Range 11 East of the Third Principal
Meridian in the Village of Palos Park, Cook County, Illinois more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the East Quarter (E1/4) corner of said Section 25, as shown per monument recorded as
Document No. 97267364; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West, on the south line of
the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of said Section 25, a distance of 1889.26 feet, to the Point of Beginning;
Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West on said south line, 2,078.54 feet to the southeast
corner of the East half (E1/2) of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 25; Thence North 1 degree 46
minutes 55 seconds West, 2,647.85 feet on the west line of the East Half of said Northwest Quarter, to
the northwest corner of said East Half of the Northwest Quarter; Thence North 88 degrees 26 minutes 25
seconds East, 1,323.73 feet on the north line of said East Half of the Northwest Quarter, to the northwest
corner of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 25; Thence North 88 degrees 09 minutes 18 seconds East,
1,796.27 feet on the north line of said Northeast Quarter; Thence, South 1 degree 44 minutes 05 seconds
East, 1,083.90 feet; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds West, 655.14 feet; Thence, South
0 degrees 23 minutes 13 seconds West, 1,272.75 feet; Thence, South 88 degrees 14 minutes 07 seconds
West, 337.15 feet; Thence, South 1 degree 45 minutes 53 seconds East, 289.88 feet to the Point of
Beginning.
The above described parcel contains 162.64 acres more or less, including 1.57 acres more or less, lying in
public roadway Right of Way.
The bearings shown are in Reference to Grid North as determined from the Illinois State Plane
Coordinates System, East Zone, NAD 83 (2012 adjustment).
PART OF PIN: 22-25-202-002-0000
Section: N/A
Parcel(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $5,000,000.00
Accounts: 25-6800 Land Acquisition; 06-6800 Land Acquisition
Summary: The Forest Preserve District (the “District”) has identified a parcel of land for acquisition
that would add to the District’s current holdings near the McGinty Slough (the “Property”). The
Property, commonly known as a part of 12375 McCarthy Road, Palos Park, Illinois, 60464, consists of
approximately 162.64 ± acres. The Property would further bolster District holdings near the Cap Sauers
Page 29 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Nature Preserve, one of the District’s largest natural areas. The Property includes one of the largermature
oak woodlands not currently in District holdings, as well as a diverse habitat mixture of wetland, lake and
open field. The Property is in the watershed of and includes the headwaters of the stream that created and
still flows through the nearby Sagawau Canyon Nature Preserve.
Through negotiations, the Owners of Record (the “Seller”) have agreed to sell the Property to the District
for the sum of FIVE MILLION DOLLARS AND 00/100 ($5,000,000.00). The purchase price is based
upon two appraisals obtained by the District and is subject to the District’s satisfactory completion of its
due diligence.
Permission is now sought, upon satisfactory completion of all due diligence and negotiation of any and
all required documentation as determined by the District’s legal department, to remit a check in the
amount of the Purchase Price to the Seller as full compensation for the acquisition of the Property.
District: 17

15-0238
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Vendor: Chicago Canoe and Kayak, Evanston, Illinois
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to
enter into an agreement
Reason: Contract 14-40-409A consists of a request for Boat Concessions at Three Recreational

Facilities. The Vendor selected, Chicago Canoe and Kayak, was the most responsive and
responsible of two (2) responders to operate the Busse Boat House. Chicago Canoe and Kayak
will be responsible for maintaining and providing boat rental and concessions at Busse Boat
House.
Chicago Canoe and Kayak has agreed to pay the Preserves the following annual fee per year in
addition to 2% of gross sales.
Busse Boat House: Year 1: $7,500.00 Year 2: $8,500.00 Year 3:$9,500.00
Contract period: Thirty Six (36) months from the issuance of the Purchase Order
Estimated Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Account(s): N/A (No Fiscal Impact)
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 15

Page 30 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

15-0239
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Vendor: T&M Lakes Inc., Orland Park, Illinois
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to
enter into an agreement
Reason: Contract 14-40-409B consists of a request for Boat Concessions at Three Recreational

Facilities. The Vendor selected, T&M Lakes Inc., was the most responsive and responsible of
two (2) responders to operate the Tampier and Maple Lake Boat House. T&M Lakes Inc. will be
responsible for maintaining and providing boat rental and concessions at Tampier and Maple
Lake Boat House.
T&M Lakes has agreed to pay the Preserves the following annual fee per year in addition to 2%
of gross sales.
Tampier Boat House: Year 1: $5009.19 Year 2: $5009.19 Year 3: $5009.19
Maple Lake Boat House: Year 1: $7,500.00 Year 2: $7,500.00 Year 3: $7,500.00
Contract period: Thirty Six (36) months from the issuance of the Purchase Order
Estimated Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Account(s): N/A
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 17

15-0257
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Planning & Development
Grantee: Forest Preserve District of Cook County (FPDCC)
Grantor: Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) through the Center for Disease Control
and (CDC) Prevention’s Partnerships to Improve Community Health (PICH) grant program
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: To increase residents’ awareness and promote physical activity in the Forest Preserves as part
of the Healthy HotSpot initiative funded by PICH, CCDPH and FPDCC.

Page 31 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Grant Amount: $452,119.00
Grant Period: 9/22/2014 - 9/29/2017
Fiscal Impact: FY 2015: $397,619.00 ($222,619.00 already approved by the CDC on 3/5/2015 +
$175,000.00 subject to federal approval), FY2016: $54,500.00 subject to federal approval)
Accounts: Grant General Consultant Services Account 10-6740
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: The Center for Disease Control and Prevention issued a revised Notice of Award to the
Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) on 3/3/2015. The grant agreement with CCDPH
and sub-grant agreement to the Forest Preserves were both approved by the Cook County Health &
Hospital Systems (CCDHHS) board on 3/27/2015.
Grant funds will be used to hire consultants to develop an overall Gateway Plan and individual plans for
some priority gateway sites (see related Agenda Item 15-0246), plans for safer trail crossings, printed and
online maps, other marketing materials, and purchase equipment to count vehicles and trail users. The
plan will identify gateway sites where signage and other improvements will encourage people to enter
into the forest preserves and engage in healthy physical activity. More details on the scope of work are
included in background materials.

15-0246
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Planning & Development
Vendor: Lakota, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Planning, architectural & engineering services to prepare a Gateway Master
Plan and Design Guidelines
Contract Value: $226,624.00
Contract period: 4/14/2015 - 9/30/2017
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $51,948.00 ($27,073.00 Grant; $24,875.00 Corporate Funds); FY
2016 $174,676.00 (Grant Funds)
Accounts: General Consulting Services Grant Account 10-6740 and 01-6217 Other Professional
Services Account
Contract Number(s): 15-80-09
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
Page 32 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Summary: Job 15-80-09 includes professional services to develop an overall Gateway Plan, conduct
focus groups, prepare individual concept plans for ten (10) priority Gateway Sites and more detailed
construction plans for five (5) priority sites.
The Forest Preserves 2013 Centennial Campaign Plan recommended branding unique forest preserve
facilities as “gateway sites” to attract new visitors and offer guests distinctive experiences. Gateway Sites
have existing special features that attract and invite visitors, including nature centers, campgrounds,
recreation areas and unique interpretative sites.
Grant funding will pay for the majority of the scope of work. (See related Board item 15-0257). The
Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) was awarded a grant from the Center for Disease
Control (CDC)’s Partnerships to Improve Community Health (PICH) grant program toward the
development of their Healthy Hotspot initiative. The Forest Preserves, as subgrantee, and its consultant
will focus on increasing access to physical activities by improving signage and wayfinding at selected
gateway sites.
The Forest Preserve District Board received six (6) proposals for the project. The Lakota Group, along
with subcontractors Bluestone + Associates, Carol Naughton + Associates, the Chicago Public Art
Group, WRD Environmental, Environmental Design International, Milhouse Engineering & O’Brien
Associates, were determined to have submitted the most responsive and responsible proposal,
particularly related to their relevant experience, effective utilization of subcontractors and capacity to do
the work.

15-0259
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Planning and Development
Vendor: Matthew Paving, Inc., Oak Lawn, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Orland Grassland Bicycle Trail Improvements
Original Contract Period: 8/15/2014 - 2/15/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/16/2015 - 8/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$2,288,206.11

Original Approval: 5/20/2014, $2,288,206.11
Previous Increase(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: N/A
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: Trails Accounts 25-6780, 51-6780, 52-6780, and 54-6780.
Contract Number(s): 10-80-79G

Page 33 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
Summary: A contract extension is required due to delay in permitting as well as delays due to weather

conditions.
Contract 10-80-79G, Orland Grassland Bicycle Trail Improvements includes, but is not limited to
construction of a 5.4 mile paved trail, site grading, drainage improvements, landscape restoration and
other related work to complete the project.
Matthew Paving Inc., Oak Lawn, Illinois, was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
Sealed bids were received, opened and publicly read at the Bid Opening on 4/11/2014.

15-0260
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Planning and Development
Vendor: Environmental Group Services, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Environmental testing including testing for Asbestos and Lead Based Paint
Original Contract Period: 3/26/2014 - 3/26/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/27/2015 - 12/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$70,300.00

Original Approval: 12/3/2013, $70,300.00
Previous Increase(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: N/A
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: General Consulting Services Accounts 51-6740, 52-6740, and 54-6740.
Contract Number(s): 13-80-52
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.

Page 34 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Summary: A contract extension is required because testing has been completed but construction
oversight is still needed for many of these structures. Testing for additional buildings may also be needed
in 2015.
Contract 13-80-52 was set up to test buildings, throughout Cook County Forest Preserves, for the
presence of Asbestos Containing Materials and Lead Based Paint. These materials need to be tested for
prior to any improvements to existing buildings or prior to any structures being demolished.

15-0263
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Rosemont
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: This agreement will allow the Village of Rosemont to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Forest Preserve for the construction of a pedestrian bridge over
the Des Plaines River near Bryn Mawr Avenue (Stage I) that would provide access to forest preserve
trails on the east side of the River in Catherine Chevalier Woods. The agreement also calls for the future
submission of plans for consideration of a new river walk trail (Stage II) that would link the proposed
bridge to River Road.
The Village of Rosemont will be responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of the project.
There is no cost to the District. The proposed agreement will be similar in form to the attached draft.
Approval is recommended.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Continuous
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: Requesting authority to enter into an IGA with the Village of Rosemont for the design,
construction and maintenance of a proposed bridge and trail, and future consideration of plans for
construction and maintenance of a river walk.

15-0270
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Planning and Development
Vendor: Burling Builders, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to increase and extend a
previously executed construction contract
Page 35 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Good(s) or Service(s): New Metal Buildings or Additions at the Central Maintenance Garage
Compound in Maywood, the Thorn Creek Maintenance Division in Lansing, and Palos Trails & Grounds
in Willow Springs
Original Contract Period: 7/10/2014 - 7/6/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/7/2015 - 9/6/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$3,993,343.00

Original Approval: 4/8/2014, $3,993,343.00
Previous Increase(s): None
This Increase Requested: $755,380.73
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $755,380.73
Accounts: Building Accounts: 25-6710, 26-6710, 51-6710, 52-6710, 54-6710 & 55-6710
Contract Number(s): Contract #13-80-01-G3R1 & G3R2
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
Summary: The proposed contract increase is due to a number of items that require additional work
necessary to complete the project. Reasons for the increase include unforeseen conditions encountered
during construction (i.e. unforeseen existing underground concrete obstructions) and permit code related
changes required by County and local jurisdictions (i.e. revising underground & piping, interior
electrical, plumbing and fire alarm equipment), and user improvements (i.e. LED lighting, upgrading
existing offices, feeders for fueling stations and fire alarm improvements). The final contract completion
date allows for sixty (60) additional days for closeout.
The Preserves is currently seeking approval of a $755,380.73 addition to increase the total contract
amount to $4,748,723.73.

15-0272
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Resource Management
Grantee: Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Grantor: Illinois Department of Natural Resources - Great Lakes Regional Initiative
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of this grant is to control invasive plants in the highest-value natural areas
remaining in the Millennium Reserve.
Page 36 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Grant Amount: $439,000.00
Grant Period: 4/14/2015 - 12/30/2016
Fiscal Impact: $95,000.00
Accounts: 09-6757 Grant Match & Work Fund
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Summary: This grant, led and coordinated by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, will enable
the Forest Preserves to control invasive plants at Calumet City Prairie, Jurgensen Woods,
Thornton-Lansing Road Woods, and Wampum Lake. This work will create healthier habitat and have a
positive impact on the native plants and animals that call these preserves home. This project will advance
goals set forth in the Chicago Wilderness Lake Michigan Action Plan, as well as addressing goals in the
Illinois Wildlife Action Plan. This project is a collaborative effort and will involve the Illinois Nature
Preserve Commission, the Nature Conservancy, Chicago Park District, Audubon Chicago Region,
Greencorps Chicago, and the Southeast Environmental Task Force.

15-0278
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Commissioner Deborah Sims
Position: Member of Board of Directors
Department/Board/Commission: NeighborSpace Board of Directors
Effective date: 5/7/2015
Expiration date: Two-year term expiring May 2017
Summary: NeighborSpace, an affiliate partner of the Forest Preserves, was established in 1996 as a
non-profit land trust through an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Chicago, Chicago Park
District and the Forest Preserves. By supporting NeighborSpace the Forest Preserves provides small
parcels of dedicated open-spaces throughout the city of Chicago for people to enjoy.

15-0279
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities and Fleet
Vendor: Mansfield Oil Company, Gainesville, Georgia
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to enter into and execute this
contract pending approval of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
Good(s) or Service(s): Motor Fuel
Page 37 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Contract Value: $1,200,000.00
Contract period: 5/1/2015 - 4/30/2016 with a one (1) year renewal option
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $800,000.00 and FY 2016 $400,000.00
Accounts: 01-0170 Gas and Oil for Auto and Equipment
Contract Number(s): 1584-14299
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
Summary: This is a request to enter into a new contract with Mansfield Oil Company in conjunction
with Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways, Stroger Hospital and Oak Forest Health
Center and Provident Hospital.
The contract will be used for Motor Fuel (Unleaded, Diesel and Bio-Diesel Fuel Districtwide. This
comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 1-8-2 (AA) of the Procurement Code.
Mansfield Oil Company was previously awarded a contract through a Request for Proposal process
through the National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance a national government purchasing
cooperative in cooperation with the City of Fort Worth, Texas. The Forest Preserve District of Cook
County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.

15-0287
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Procurements and Disbursements Report
Report Period: 2/1/2015-2/28/2015
Summary: Submitting the Procurements and Disbursements Report for the period of February 2015.
This report is to be received and filed in compliance with Section 1-8-2(BB) of the District’s Code of
Ordinances.

15-0288
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Corporate Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure Report
Page 38 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Report Period: 2/1/28 - 2/28/2015
Summary: Detailed Fund Analysis Revenue and Expenditure Report

15-0291
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Submitting Report for the Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Forest Preserve District of Cook County Annual Business Diversity Report FY 2014
Report Period: 1/1/2014-12/31/2014
Summary: Submitting report for referral to the Contract Compliance Committee

15-0274
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department:

Conservation and Experiential Programming

Summary: Forest Preserves of Cook County Calendar - 4/15/2015 - 5/19/2015
Friday - Sunday, 4/16 - 4/19; 10 am - 5 pm
Antiques, Garden & Design Show, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
The Show, formerly known as the Antiques & Garden Fair, presents approximately 100 of the finest
exhibitors from around the United States, Africa, and Europe will offer antiques, jewelry, fine art,
gardening books and tools, seeds, containers, books and much more. Fee applies.
Thursday, 4/16; 3 - 5 pm
Third Thursdays: Creative Reuse 101: Printmaking, Cummings Square, River Forest
Learn basic printmaking techniques using found materials. Adults & families with children ages 5 & up.
Registration encouraged.
Saturday, 4/18; 9am - 1pm
Earth Day Celebration and Preserves Clean Up, Kickapoo Woods, Riverdale
Clean up the preserves in the morning, and then afterward celebrate with fun nature activities.
Saturday, 4/18; 10 am - 2 pm
Earth Day, Little Red Schoolhouse Nature Center, Willow Springs
Celebrate plants at our Earth Day Celebration. Earn your green thumb by joining fun and interactive
activities that focus on plants and gardening.
Saturday, 4/18; Noon to 3 pm
Earth Day, Nature Play, Crabtree Nature Center, Barrington Hills
Catch, craft, climb! Enjoy special Earth Day family activities in our three-acre nature play area.
Page 39 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

Sunday, 4/19; 9 am
Garden Plant Selection, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, Lemont
Incorporate native plants into your garden plan. Many natives are perennial, returning year after year.
Learn how to choose the right plants for your garden.
Sunday, 4/19; Noon - 2 pm
Geo-caching 101, River Trail Nature Center, Northbrook
Learn about and participate in this technology-inspired scavenger hunt. Check out a GPS unit or bring
your own. Supplies are limited. This is a drop-in program.
Saturday, 4/25; 10 am - 3 pm
Earth Day, Sand Ridge Nature Center, South Holland
Join us for a day set aside as a reminder to be good stewards of our planet. Activities include hikes,
puppet shows, crafts and Earth Day Jeopardy!
Saturday, 4/25; Noon - 4 pm
Arbor Day Celebration, LaBagh Woods, Chicago
Enjoy tree planting, a kids’ tree climb, tree-caching and ID, scavenger hunts, art projects and more.
There will also be a short ceremony celebrating Forest Preserve Foundation Memorial tree and bench
donors.
Saturday, 4/25; 1 pm
Earth Day Woodland Walk, Trailside Museum of Natural History, River Forest
Take a guided walk to view the many wonders of our earth in the springtime woods.
Register by 4/23.
Sunday, 5/3; 10 am - 3 pm
Spring Festival, Trailside Museum of Natural History, River Forest
Celebrate spring with a day of activities for all ages, including guided wildflower walks, dip netting,
animal encounters, kids’ tree climb, puppet shows, craft corner, beekeeping demonstrations and more.
Wednesday - Friday, 5/6 - 5/8; 7:30 am
International Migratory Bird Week, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, Lemont
Enjoy our multi-day celebration of birds as they migrate across the Americas, and join in guided bird
hikes.
Saturday, 5/9; 8 am
International Migratory Bird Day, Crabtree Nature Center, Barrington Hills
Grab your favorite optics and join us for bird walks and other activities.
Saturday, 5/9; 9 am - Noon
International Migratory Bird Day, Sand Ridge Nature Center, South Holland
Join a naturalist to bird the best spots at Sand Ridge on this day to celebrate our feathered friends. Learn
about migration theories, perils and some of the particulars of bird migration.
Sunday, 5/10; 9 am, 11 am, 1 pm
Mother’s Day Brunch, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
Treat your mother to the best on Mother's Day. Enjoy an elegant and sumptuous brunch at the Garden
and spend the rest of the day viewing all that spring has to offer. Preregistration required; fee applies.
Thursday, 5/14; 4 - 6:30 pm
Nature Obstacle Course & Archery Night, Bremen Grove, Tinley Park
Families, try our outdoor challenge! Attempt our nature obstacle course-created from natural forest
Page 40 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

materials. Join our staff for archery instruction and activities. Obstacle course for all ages; archery for
ages 10 & up. Call 708-386-4042 x23 to reserve a spot!
Friday, 5/15; 7:30 pm
Night Hike, River Trail Nature Center, Northbrook
Join our night hike to learn about nocturnal animals that live at River Trail. Afterwards, stop inside for
refreshments. Register by 5/13.
Saturday, 5/16; 10 am
Who’s in the Pools?, Little Red Schoolhouse Nature Center, Willow Springs
Investigate the forest for ephemeral ponds and discover who lives in these temporary habitats. Limit 20.
Saturday, 5/16; 10 am - 5 pm
Model Railroad Garden Exhibit, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
The 7,500-square-foot Model Railroad Garden features trains running on 1,600 feet of track. Train and
garden enthusiasts, young and old, return year after year for the delightful sights and sounds of the
miniature trains traversing high and low through tunnels, across bridges, and around buildings. All are
intricately handcrafted with natural materials, including twigs, bark, leaves, acorns, and pebbles. More
than 5,000 tiny trees, shrubs, groundcovers, and flowering plants of close to 300 varieties re-create the
topographical landscape of America. Fee applies.
Saturday, 5/16; Noon - 4 pm
Nature Block Party: A Celebration of Biodiversity, Eggers Grove, Chicago
Discover the flora and fauna of the urban preserves with restoration activities, bird and tree hikes, biking
and more. Visit nearby William W. Powers Recreation Area for more activities.
Sunday, 5/17; 9 am - 5 pm
Midwest Bonsai Society Spring Exhibition, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
The Midwest Bonsai Society’s spring show features spring-blooming trees, bonsai on rocks, and Suiseki
(the Japanese art of stones.). Free.
SAVE THE DATE!
Sunday - Sunday; 9/20-9/27
100 Years, 100 Events: Celebrating the Forest Preserves 100th Anniversary
We’re celebrating our 100th Anniversary with 100 activities at locations all over the Forest Preserves in
one week. Watch for more information about specific activities and how you can participate in this grand
celebration!

Page 41 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 14, 2015

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL1, 2015
15-0223 REPORT OF THE FOREST PRESERVE OF COOK COUNTY MBE/WBE EXPENDITURES
15-0224 REPORT OF THE CHICAGO ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY MBE/WBE EXPENDITURES
15-0226 REPORT OF THE CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN MBE/WBE EXPENDITURES
______________________
REAL ESTATE COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL14, 2015
15-0202 PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST 13500 S. Harlem Ave., LLC, Grantee,
______________________

RULES COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 14, 2015
15-0298 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 3/10/2015
______________________

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 14, 2015
15-0292 RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (LITIGATION)
15-0293 RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (WORKERS’
COMPENSATION)
15-0281 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Burling Builders, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
15-0282 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Burling Builders, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
15-0283 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Burling Builders, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
15-0284 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Old Veteran Construction, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
15-0285 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Cornerstone Contracting, Inc., Elk Grove Village, Illinois
15-0286 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Path Construction Company, Arlington Heights, Illinois
15-0188 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Path Construction Company, Inc., Arlington Heights,
Illinois
15-0190 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Path Construction, Arlington Heights, Illinois
15-0266 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Martinez Frog’s, Inc., Melrose Park, Illinois
Page 42 of 43

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

15-0267 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Matthew Paving, Inc., Oak Lawn, Illinois
15-0269 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Arborworks LLC, Downers Grove, Illinois.
15-0271 PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION Vega Tree Service, Northlake, Illinois
15-0288 REPORT Corporate Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expenditure Report

Page 43 of 43

April 14, 2015

 