MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MARCH 10, 1992
ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS

A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held at 1:00 P.M. on March
10, 1992 at the Plaza One Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois. The meeting was
called by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. and notice was duly and timely given
to each Board Member and to the general public in conformity with Section 2.02
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The following Board Members were present: William J. Kunkle, Jr. and Members
Designate Robert Vickrey and Michael Zaransky. Members J. Thomas Johnson and
William J. Chamblin were absent.
Also in attendance were Administrator Morton E. Friedman, Deputy Administrators
Marcy L. Wolf, Joseph McQuaid and J. Thomas Hutchison. Additionally, Chief
Legal Counsel Donna B. More, other Board staff, the media and the general public
were present.
The meeting was called to order by Chairman William J. Kunkle, Jr. at 1:03 P.M.
The first order of business was consideration of the elements necessary for
authorization of a final practice gaming excursion as they related to Rock
Island Boatworks, Incorporated. The Chairman recognized the Administrator.
Administrator Morton E. Friedman requested permission of the Board to conduct
the final practice gaming excursion. He reviewed documents earlier sent to the
membership concerning handicapped accessibility, adequacy of insurance coverage,
a review of the Casino Rock Island's internal controls, including security and
surveillance measures. Mr. Friedman also stated that the workforce of Rock
Island Boatworks, Incorporated, compared favorably with the labor market of the
quad-cities area. The Chairman asked for discussion and recognized Mr.
Zaransky.
Mr. Zaransky noted a technical flaw in the insurance certificate that listed
Jumer Hotels as the insured instead of Rock Island Boatworks, Incorporated. Mr.
Zaransky suggested the applicant submit a new insurance certificate listing Rock
Island Boatworks, Incorporated as the insured. On behalf of the applicant, Mr.
Michael Ficaro stated that such a certificate would be provided. There was no
further discussion.
Mr. Vickrey moved that the Administrator be authorized to conduct a final
practice gaming excursion with respect to the applicant, Rock Island Boatworks,
Incorporated. Mr. Zaransky seconded the motion. The Chairman called for the
yeas and nays.
The motion was approved unanimously by voice vote.
The next order of business was the approval of the combined 1991 Annual Report
and Wagering Study.
Mr. Zaransky moved that the 1991 Annual Report and Wagering Study be approved as
submitted, and that the staff be instructed to file the document with the Office

 of the Governor.
yeas and nays.

Mr. Vickrey seconded the motion.

The Chairman called for the

The motion was approved unanimously be voice vote.
The Chairman stated that he wanted to commend staff on the preparation of the
1991 Annual Report and Wagering Study and their continued excellent work with
other gaming jurisdictions nationally.
At the Administrator's request, Mr. Vickrey moved that pursuant to Illinois
Revised Statutes 102, Section 42.02 (g), (h) and (k), the Board dissolve to
Closed Session for the purpose of discussing two occupational license
applications. Mr. Zaransky seconded the motion.
Without objection, the Board dissolved itself to Closed Session at 1:13 P.M.
The Illinois Gaming Board reconvened at 1:18 P.M.
Chairman Kunkle stated that the Board had set its Regular Meeting Schedule for
1992. The dates are:
Thursday, May 14, 1992
Thursday, July 9, 1992
Thursday, October 15, 1992
The next order of business concerned the Board's policy toward completeness and
accuracy of license applications. The Chairman stated the Board's policy to
wit:
"The Board will not tolerate a lie in an application, particularly when the
information deals with past background misconduct. The Board views the charge
made by statute very seriously to insure the honesty and integrity of riverboat
gambling in Illinois. The Board is very concerned with not just the merits or
content of past conduct of an applicant, but, more importantly, toward the
candor and truthfulness of an applicant to disclose such information. It is the
Board's position that applications for any license provided for under the Act
will be complete in every sense, complete in every detail and absolutely
truthful."
There was no further discussion.
The next order of business was a discussion by Mr. Zaransky concerning Jo
Daviess Riverboat Corporation. Mr. Zaransky stated that he was concerned that
it appeared the applicant was not taking necessary action to bring the
enterprise into full operation and asked that Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation
be directed to appear before the Board at the next Regular Meeting. The
Chairman responded that although Jo Daviess Riverboat Corporation makes regular
written progress reports to the Board, that he agreed that the applicant should
appear to answer questions in greater detail. The Administrator stated that he
would assure the applicant's presence at the next meeting.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Vickrey moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Mr. Zaransky seconded the motion.
Without objection, the Board adjourned at 1:22 P.M.

 Respectfully submitted,

James A. Nelson
Secretary of the Board

