MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MARCH 26, 1995
ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board was held on March
26, 1995 at the Plaza One Hotel, Rock Island, Illinois pursuant to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson,
Chairman; and Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, J. William
Roberts and Robert F. Vickrey.
In addition, Administrator Michael A. Belletire, representatives
of the press Deputy Administrators Joseph C. Haughey and Thomas Swoik;
and representatives of the press and the general public were in
attendance.
The meeting was called to give the licensee and the community the
opportunity to give testimony in conjunction with relicensing action
regarding the Rock Island Boatworks/Casino Rock Island.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 1:10 p.m.
Bill Renk, Director of Promotions gave an overview of the key
points to be presented.
Frank Pedulla, President and Chief Operating Officer spoke on the
history of the Casino Rock Island, their business philosophy and
summarized the current status of Casino Rock Island.
Mark Schweibert, Mayor of Rock Island, spoke on the history of
cooperation between the City of Rock Island and the licensee. The
City worked with Jumers to create the Rock Island Boatworks; to
stimulate economic development and to help rebuild the downtown area
called "the district". Tax revenues from the casino and the
cooperation of the licensee have helped expand businesses and service
enterprises in "the district". Mayor Schweibert pointed out that the
crime rate is down from 1993. He finished his statement with words of
support for the relicensure of the Casino Rock Island.
Bill Renk discussed the Jumers marketing approach. He pointed
out that Casino Rock Island has brought in 400,000 out of state
passengers per year due to 1 million dollars in advertising, 40% of
which is out of State. Mr. Renk emphasized that Jumers and Casino
Rock Island support the district financially to help the community
grow together.
Several community members spoke on the positive partnership
between Jumers, the casino and the district.
Jeff Zahnle, Human Resources Director of the licensee spoke on
employee statistics, minority hiring and employment statistics. In
1992 50% of new hires came from the ranks of the unemployed. Many, he

1

 said previously held minimum wage jobs or were on public assistance.
Today 90% of the current staff are local residents and the payroll for
1995 is projected to be $7 million dollars.
Quentin Davis, Economic Development Consultant for Jumer Hotels &
Casinos, Inc., spoke on the economic impact over the last three years,
spin-off jobs and development from the Casino Rock Island, as well as,
the revenue impact on the State and local communities.
Senator Denny Jacobs of the 36th District and John Pauley,
President of the Arts and Entertainment District gave statements of
support.
Dan Carmody, Executive Director, Rock Island Economic Growth
Corporation spoke on the positive development impact the Casino Rock
Island has had on the city of Rock Island and the entire community.
Frank Pedulla returned to stress the commitment to State and
local community and to statutory compliance. He requested that the
Casino Rock Island's license be renewed at the next regular meeting of
the Board.
Several citizens gave testimony in favor of the relicensure of
the Casino Rock Island.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Mr.
Johnson adjourned the meeting at 2:25 p.m. Members of the Board and
staff then took a walking tour of the Casino Rock Island, "the
district" and visited the Iowa-licensed President riverboat.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

2

 