 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Capital Improvements Committee

Tuesday, December 3, 2013 1:45 PM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1

Your Capital Improvements Committee of the Board of Commissioners met pursuant to notice on October 1,
2103, recessed and reconvened for a meeting on Tuesday, December 3, 2013 at the hour of 1:45 P.M.

ATTENDANCE (October 1. 2013)

Present: Chairman Murphy, Vice Chairman Butler, Commissioners Garcia, Gorman, Schneider, Moore,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (10)

Absent: None (0)

Chairman Murphy asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

ATTENDANCE (December 3, 2013)

Present: Vice Chairman Butler, Commissioners Garcia, Gorman, Schneider, Moore, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele and Tobolski (9)
Absent: Chairman Murphy (1)

Vice Chairman asked asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance
with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

13-1372
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy

Transmitting a Communication from

JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy

requesting approval and execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the County of Cook, a body politic
and corporate of the State of Illinois, on behalf of the Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy (OCPP) and the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System and the Illinois Medical District Commission (IMDC), a body
politic and corporate and unit of local government of the State of Illinois.

Per Article VII, Section 10 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS
220/1 et seq), and other applicable law, units of local government are permitted to cooperate with and support
each other in exercise of their authority and the performance of their responsibilities.

The purpose of the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (?Agreement?) will be to allow the IMDC, OCPP and
to collaborate on redevelopment opportunities within the Illinois Medical District, to better account for
existing and future needs of the County and as well as the IMDC, including but not limited to the best
and highest uses for the County, and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical District.

The Agreement will also promote quality comprehensive re-development opportunities for the County, 
and the IMDC within the Illinois Medical District. The Agreement between the County and the IMDC allows for
the exploration of redevelopment opportunities and will allow the parties to determine strategies to enhance the
services provided to the medical district community, develop a vibrant mixed?use campus for and the
surrounding IMDC community, and bene?t the overall medical district community.

The Agreement shall commence upon execution by all parties and shall be effective for a period of two (2) years
thereafter. This Agreement may be extended or amended upon the mutual written agreement of the parties.
Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing the other party with thirty (30) days prior
written notice of such termination.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None.

Legislative History: 9/13/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Capital Improvements

Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be Recommended for Approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Vice Chairman Butler, Commissioners Garcia, Gorman, Schneider, Moore, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele and Tobolski (9)
Absent: Chairman Murphy (1)
1 3-2 1 1 0

Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): The Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy on behalf of the Clerk of the Circuit Court

Vendor: Midway Moving and Storage, Chicago, Illinois

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Of?cer to enter into and execute.
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services

Contract Value: $6,305,610.00

Contract period: Three (3) Years from Notice to Proceed Date.

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2013: $697,684.00; FY2014: $1,126,800.00; FY2015:
$2,240,563.00; FY2016: $2,240,563.00

Accounts: 499-260

Contract Number(s): 1323-12809

Concurrences:

Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Of?ce of the Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Summary: An Invitation for Bid was issued for Countywide Warehouse and Records Storage Move. A
competitive bid process was followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Midway Moving
and Storage Inc., Chicago, Illinois was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is recommended for

this award. The intent of this project is to centralize the Clerks ?les and evidence into one warehouse location.
The work requires that the Contractor provide new boxes as speci?ed for all ?le storage and transfer all ?les into
new boxes prior to the move. The Contractor will be required to provide all equipment and personnel necessary
to re-box, tag, pack, track, move, and place items at the Cicero Records Center. The Clerk will provide one staff
member to manage the move and scheduling.

Legislative History: 11/ 13/ 13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Capital Improvements
Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be Recommended for Approval.

After further discussion, a motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner
Steele, to Withdraw the motion to Approve File Id number 13-2110.

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Steele that this Contract be
Recommended for Receiving and Filing. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Vice Chairman Butler, Commissioners Garcia, Gorman, Schneider, Moore, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele and Tobolski (9)

Absent: Chairman Murphy (1)

ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Steele, moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Sims. The motion carried
and the meeting was adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Aye:Vice Chairman Butler, Commissioners Garcia, Gorman, Schneider, Moore, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele and Tobolski (9)
Absent: Chairman Murphy (1)
SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File Id Number 13-1372 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 13-2110 Recommended for Receiving and Filing

Respectfully submitted,



Vice Chairm 36/ I

 

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on the Video
Page at 

