Board of Commissioners of Cook County
REVISED Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, September 14, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

16-5224
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 8/3/2016

16-5221
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 7/13/2016.

16-5222
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 8/3/2016.

 16-4645
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEMS BEFORE THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105 (3) Meetings
of the Board of the Cook County of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
***
(j) Agendas.
***
(3) Consent calendar. The Consent Calendar is a compilation of proposed resolutions concerning deaths,
anniversaries, and congratulations for notable achievements. Only proposed resolutions conforming to
this description may be submitted to the Secretary for inclusion on the Consent Calendar, and it shall be
the duty of the Secretary to prepare the Consent Calendar for any regular meeting of the Board. Proposed
resolutions on the Consent Calendar are non-debatable, and shall not be read in to the record or
otherwise considered individually, but shall be part of a motion to approve the Consent Calendar in its
entirety. Any item on the Consent Calendar may be removed by a motion, seconded and approved, and
shall then be subject to the provisions of this division as provided herein. Once a month a Special Board
Meeting shall be called to precede the regular meeting of the Forest Preserve Board of Cook County
meeting for the purpose of having proposed resolutions concerning deaths, anniversaries and
congratulations for notable achievements. Such meeting shall have as the only agenda items the reading
of the resolution, discussion of the resolution and the taking of a photo.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History: 8/3/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Rules and Administration
Committee
16-4708
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING DECORUM GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC SPEAKERS
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article III, County Board, Section 2-105 (i) of the Cook County Code, is hereby
amended as follows:

Page 2 of 3

 (i) Public testimony. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at regular and
special meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals
who have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary
24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver
testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s)
on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of
the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public
testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board.
Failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere
to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from
providing future testimony. shall observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity and
good taste. Public speakers shall not:
(1) make vulgar, abusive, slanderous. defamatory. obscene. threatening, or personally offensive
Remarks;
(2) engage in any disorderly conduct which disturbs or disrupts the orderly conduct of any
meeting;
(3) speak to an item that is not germane to the meeting;
(4) fail to adhere to the time requirements.
Public speakers shall be given notice of this rule on the agenda for any meeting.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History: 8/3/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Rules and Administration
Committee

_______________________________
Matthew DeLeon
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Daley
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 3 of 3

 