Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, October 5, 2016

8:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak
to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in
expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
16-5660
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9/14/2016

 16-5320
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
LOCAL WORKFORCE AREA - WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
WHEREAS, Article VII, Section 10 of the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Intergovernmental
Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 220/1 et seq., and other applicable law permit and encourage units of local
government to cooperate with and support each other in the exercise of their authority and the
performance of their responsibilities; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 12-O25 adopted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
(“County Board”) on June 5, 2012, the County of Cook (the “County”) entered into certain agreements
related to the consolidation of workforce development efforts with the City of Chicago (the “City”) and
the under the Federal Workforce Investment Act (the “WIA”); and
WHEREAS, workforce development efforts previously funded under the WIA are now funded under the
Federal Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the regulations issued thereunder (as amended,
supplemented, modified or replaced, collectively, the “WIOA”); and
WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners (the “President”) and the
Mayor of the City of Chicago (the “Mayor”) intend to continue collaboration regarding workforce
development efforts under WIOA; and
WHEREAS, the President and the Mayor intend to continue to designate the Chicago-Cook Workforce
Partnership (the “Partnership”) as the grant sub recipient and fiscal agent for federal WIOA funds; and
WHEREAS, legislative approval of certain intergovernmental agreements consistent with the continuing
collaboration regarding local workforce development efforts is in the best interests of the County and its
residents.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK
COUNTY:
SECTION 1. All of the recitals above are expressly adopted as legislative findings of the County
Board and are incorporated herein and made hereby a part of this Ordinance.
SECTION 2. The County Board hereby approves, and the President is authorized to execute on
behalf of the County, subject to the approval of the State’s Attorney’s Office as to form and legality, an
agreement between the President and the Mayor regarding the Local Workforce Development Board (the
“LWDB”) established pursuant to WIOA, the key elements of which are summarized on the term sheet
attached hereto as Exhibit A.
SECTION 3. The County Board hereby approves, and the President is authorized to execute on
behalf of the County, subject to the approval of the State’s Attorney’s Office as to form and legality, an
agreement between the President, the Mayor, and the Partnership with respect to the Partnership’s
responsibilities as the WIOA grant recipient and designated fiscal agent, key elements which are
Page 2 of 3

 summarized on the term sheet attached hereto as Exhibit B.
SECTION 4. The County Board hereby approves, and the President is authorized to execute on
behalf of the County, subject to the approval of the State’s Attorney’s Office as to form and legality, an
agreement between President, the Mayor, and the local workforce development board, key elements of
which are summarized on the term sheet attached hereto as Exhibit C.
SECTION 5. The President shall make appointments to the local workforce development board.
SECTION 6.

This ordinance shall be effective upon passage and approval.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 9/14/16 Board of Commissioners refer to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

 