MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
September 14 and 15, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, September 14, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday September 14, 2009 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and Jim
Sullivan. At 9:55 a.m. on Monday September 14, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board recessed at 12:22 p.m.
On Tuesday, September 15, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 11:40 a.m. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler,
James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:30 p.m. The Board went into
open session at 1:00 p.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 24 and 25, 2009. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 25, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 ADMINSTRATOR’S COMMENTS – no motion
Comments by General Counsel Michael Fries:
On July 28, 2009, the Board issued a Request for Information relative to central communications
systems. We received several responses, which have been reviewed. We had intended to
schedule presentations to the staff by potential vendors in September. After reviewing the
responses, we have reconsidered and will work to issue a Request for Proposal for a Central
Communications System in due course.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Presentation by Roy Corrie:
Thank you, Chairman Jaffe, Board Members.
I am here today to challenge the Gaming Board to interview me and my “All in One” Video
Gaming Device A.S.A.P.
It seems the Board has a problem, and I have the solution.
Gentlemen: I need you to:
“THINK OUTSIDE THE BOX”
“THE TECHNOLOGY IS HERE”
The future of Gaming is now.
My company, New Way Gaming Corporation has developed an “All in One” video gaming
device.
Video Gaming Points
Last month on television, Chairman Jaffe, you said that you needed funding and the People to
move forward. I believe I can have the law and rules ready for the General Assembly and the
Governor to sign, within 30 to 45 days; I will need three people. A staff member that can type as
fast as I can talk, a lawyer that types up the law for the government to understand and me.
Rev. Eugene [Winkler] said any sane person would realize that this is a disaster waiting to
happen for our state. I must be insane, or a genius.
I ask that the Board please keep an open mind. This is not amusement poker machines, those
days are gone. This is 15,000 plus mini-casinos. Remember McDonalds did not invent the
hamburger, they just figured out a better way to market it.

2

 Now with the Board’s permission I would like to have R. J. speak my words on my behalf.
Board Members, I will go thru as many points as possible.
1.

Money from the state:
About $250,000. In my opinion the Board will need around $250,000 for setup cost and
some reading time. (No other taxes needed from the state).
2.

Central Communication System:
No cost to the Board/State, no skimming.

3.

Testing:
No cost to the Board. Testing can be done on the games and my gaming device. A
sample test can be seen upon request from the Board.
4.

Establishment Inspectors:
Not needed, ten or fewer workers can monitor everything from the Board.

5.

Background check:
Not needed, no money in gaming device.

6.

Organized crime/undesirable characters:
No more. Everyone will pay all taxes. Even Al Capone would have to pay his taxes.

7.

Time:
Ready by August 1, 2010. We can be up and running 100% by August 1, 2010.

8.

Gross Annual Income:
Is estimated at $4,562,500.00 after payouts.

9.

State of Illinois 30% taxes:
Off the top, is estimated at $1,368,750,000 or more.

10.

Players:
More chance to win, more giveaways. Will have a better chance of winning, signup
bonus, perks for more play, and much more, plus a bigger variety of games.
Example:
Poker Slots, line ups (some with progressive bounces)
Black Jack, Bingo (all Taxes will be paid)
Poker Parlors = Texas Hold’em (all Taxes will be paid)
Horse Racing Game = Nothing to do with race track
My game (New) coming soon.

3

 11.
Taxes from Players:
(Example over $1,000)
Gaming Board can set an amount (example $1,000) that will automatically be deducted from the
taxes before paying the players their winnings.
12.
Advertising: on gaming device. (More taxes)
With major corporations, example Coke-Cola, Budweiser and local businesses on all gaming
devices across Illinois. 300,000 to 500,000 plus players. (More taxes)
13.
Security: No under age players
Gaming device will have a built in camera and microphone and will record and keep on file the
players face, picture ID, credit card and driver license. This will be done at signup, one time.
14.
Overhead security camera:
Will monitor establishment. Will monitor the five (5) gaming devices and be hooked up to the
Board and New Way Gaming as well as a monitor in the office or behind the bar.
Example: If a kid is sitting on their mother’s lap while she is playing New Way Gaming will
stop the game and give the player a warning. (Three (3) warning and the player will be
brandished for thirty (30) days.
15.
Over Gambling:
Player can set a limit. My gaming device can set a limit that a player can lose each day or week.
(Device will turn off at that point).
16.
Problem Gambling:
Player can be helped and/or be brandished from playing.
17.
Gamblers Anonymous:
24/7/365 help on the gaming devices.
18.
Bill acceptors:
Not needed (No Money, no thefts/robberies)
19.
No Money:
In the gaming device or at establishments (example: payout money) “No holdups/stickup”.
20.
Operators:
Not needed. I have presented two (2) ways, with or without operators (they can open a bar or do
financing).
21.
Amusement games tracking:
20% for state (more taxes). Within six (6) months or less my gaming device will replace and
monitor income on all or most amusement games in the establishments and will pay a 20% tax.

4

 Examples:
Pool table tournaments,
Dart tournaments,
Bowling tournaments,
Golf tournaments,
Bar tops,
Juke box and more.
Six (6) more gaming devices needed (for tournaments use only).
22.
Establishments that are needed:
1)
Bars and restaurants: 5 gaming device limit
2)
Non-profits: 5 gaming device limit
3)
Truck stops: 5 gaming device limit
4)
Bingo halls: 200 gaming device limit (no poker games)
5)
Poker parlors: Texas Hold’em tournaments: 100 gaming device limit (no gaming device
poker game)
All above must buy a liquor license use it or not
23.
Gaming Device Lease Cost:
Under $10,000 including sales tax
24.
Deduction and Payments:
All done by wire transfer. New Way Gaming will by (wire transfer) to the state. Establishments,
distributors, finance company, New Way Gaming Corporation and operators (if involved) not
needed “more taxes”
25.
Replace riverboat slots and CCS:
My gaming device can also replace the slots on the 10 riverboats. No more cash in the
slots/gaming device no more errors. No more Board employees to oversee the slots. No more
paying for a central communication system.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Final Action
●

Empress Casino – Parking Garage Construction –

Interim General Manager Joe McBride addressed the Board.
Member Gardner asked about how many cars the garage will hold, and Joe McBride answered
around 1200.
Member Gardner stated that he and Member Moore visited Empress a couple of weeks prior and
commented on how great staff is and what tremendous morale they exhibit.

5

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation Member Sullivan moved to
approve Empress Casino’s $21M parking garage construction plan. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
●

Empress Casino Joliet – Patrick K. Kauffman, Director of Surveillance – Level
One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board approve Patrick K. Kauffman as an Occupational Licensee Level 1
in the position of Director of Surveillance at Empress Casino in Joliet,
Illinois. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Grand Victoria Casino – Rolando Guerrero, Director of Slot Operations – Level
One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Rolando Guerrero as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in
the position of Director of Slot Operations at the Grand Victoria Casino in
Elgin, Illinois. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Jumer’s Casino & Hotel – Linda K. Shroyer, Internal Auditor – Level One Linda
K. Shroyer, Internal Auditor
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board approve Linda K. Shroyer as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in
the position of Internal Auditor at Jumer’s Casino & Hotel in Rock Island,
Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

Mr. Dan Wilson introduced himself as the new General Manager of Jumer’s Casino. He went on
to give Board and staff a synopsis of his background.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve 13 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 74
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.

6

 1.
2.
3.
4.

James O’Dell Irby;
Michaelangelo Rivera;
Thomas G. Kowalski, and
Gary Lee Versluys.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS ●

Tammy J. Olivarez – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Tammy J. Olivarez, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in
information to the Board.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Tammy J. Olivarez’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Kathleen Petric – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Kathleen Petric, an
occupational licensee, for failing to disclose all material changes in
information to the Board.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Kathleen Petric’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the
licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

Member Moore commented on the importance of staff on the riverboats to keep their records up
to date to avoid suspensions for violations of such.
He also commented on Harrah’s Joliet’s one year annual update. Member Moore referenced
Harrah’s EEOC numbers, the diversity of the suppliers and the charitable contributions. Member
Moore commented on the downward trend, hoping this is not a habit and that the numbers will
start to improve.
Member Gardner commented on the community support referring to the AGR which is down
20% along with the charitable donations down 25%.

7

 At 1:20 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Sullivan seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

8

 