LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
March 12, 2019
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:03 A.M. by Dave Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Ivana Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael
Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City of Chicago designee; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s
Attorney’s designee.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: None.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and Secretary of State
designee; Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Sandra Lucas,
Senior Records Archivist; Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the February 13, 2019 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook
County were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
Mr. Boots said that local governmental agencies requested an update to the standard retention for
the record series title “Personnel Records”. Mr. Boots provided a recap of the retention research.
He said the proposed retention update includes the addition of one record category:
•

Retain all other records and supporting documents within this record series that are not covered
under another record series for seven (7) years from date of generation, then dispose of.

Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the research as submitted. Mr. Joens seconded the motion.
The motion carried and was approved unanimously.

 Mr. Joens said there is one bill so far in the General Assembly that could affect the Local
Records Act. He said HB 2504, House Amendment 1, would prohibit law enforcement agencies
from disposing any records related to complaints and investigations concerning misconduct of
law enforcement officers. He said the Archives generally opposes bills of this type because they
set a retention for records, which is the job of the local records commissions.
New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new applications:
19:005C–City Colleges of Chicago (Chicago).
Mr. Peters proposed five updates to the application:
1.

To correct the abbreviation for the Latin idiom exempli gratia in the record series title of
item #106, the letter “I” is to be replaced with “E” at the beginning of the parenthetical
phrase. The record series title will read as follows: Post Office Records (E.G., Postage
Transaction Log, Postage Invoices, USPS Bulk Mail Permit, Postage Accounts, USPS Shipping
Logs, USPS Postage By Phone).

2.

To include the electronic volume for item #300, a slash “ / ” is to be placed after cubic
feet followed by “Less than 1 Terabyte” for record series, Administrative Files &
Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including Email Classified As General Correspondence
And Not Related To Another Record Series, Reference Materials, Publications, ETC.

3.

To correct two grammatical errors in the record series title for item #500, the third letter
“r” is to be removed from the word “Verteran” and a comma is to be placed after “(VA)”.
The record series title will read as follows: Department of Veteran Affairs (VA), and
Department of Defense (DOD) Educational Benefits.

4.

The proposition for adding a comma after the word “Building” in the record series title
for item #601 was withdrawn after a discussion with Senior Records Archivist, Sandra
Lucas. Ms. Lucas said the equipment is specific to the building. The record series title
will continue to read as follows: Building Equipment, and Grounds Maintenance Files.

5.

To correct a spelling error in the record series title for item #1402, a second letter “r” will
be added to the word “corespondence”. The record series title will read as follows:
Correspondence Risk Management (Student Malpractice Verifications, Other
Correspondence Related To Specific Claims or Litigation).

Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve 19:005C as amended. Mr. Joens seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
19:006C–Midlothian Public Library (Midlothian). Mr. Peters proposed that the same update
approved for 19:005C be made for 19:006C, item #4. Specifically, the inclusion of electronic
volume for the record series, Administrative Files & Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including
Email Classified As General Correspondence And Not Related To Another Record Series,
Reference Materials, Publications, ETC. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve 19:006C as
amended. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.

 Application Add-On
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following add-on:
08:027C–Palatine Township Offices (Palatine). Mr. Joens made a motion to approve 08:027C
as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday April 9, 2019 at the Illinois Department of Central Management Services’
Video Conference Center located in Room 9-035 of the James R. Thompson Center, 100 West
Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the LLCC-Capital
City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Hunt made a motion to adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 