Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary November 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Juan M. Calderon
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Victor M. Gonzalez
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:09 a.m. by Dr. Lopez, Board President.
Approval of Minutes: The October 2017 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update:
Teen Birth Numbers Hit Another Historic Low.
Commissioner Morita reported this week Mayor Emanuel announced Chicago teen birthrate hits
new historic low following nine years of consecutive declines. Since 2010, Chicago has seen
declines in teen births across all racial and ethnic groups. African American teens, who historically
face greater disparities regarding teen births, have seen the greatest decline, from more than 72
births per 1,000 to just 35, which represents a more than 51 percent drop overall. Chicago’s teen
birthrate is higher than the national average but continues to aggressively close the gap, dropping
20 percent more than national rates since 2010. She also informed us that the vast majority of teen
pregnancies are unintended and adolescent parenthood is associated with serious health and
educational implications. Research has consistently shown that teen birth and unintended
pregnancies increase the chance of low birth weight and infant mortality. This decline means an
increase in opportunity and empowerment for teens.
Commissioner Morita is especially proud of the work this department leads in our efforts to reduce
these numbers, including our Chicago Healthy Adolescents and Teens (CHAT) program, which
provides education on birth control, abstinence and healthy relationships in select CPS high
schools, in addition to testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections. Since March 2015,
CHAT has provided sexual health education to more than 32,000 youth and screened more than
18,000 in high schools, colleges and community based organizations throughout the city. In
addition, CDPH was a leader in efforts to have CPS institute comprehensive, medically-accurate
and age appropriate sexual health education across the district.
Chicago Ranked One of the Best Cities for Uteruses
In related news, according to the National Institute of Reproductive Health, Chicago is one of five
cities, and the only one in the Midwest, to receive four or more stars in their inaugural Local
Reproductive Freedom Index. The index measures a community’s commitment to protecting
abortion access, funding for and supporting young people’s access to reproductive health care,
supporting families’ ability to be financially stable, inclusive public policies and taking a public
stand on reproductive health care at local, state and federal levels.
Chicago Health Atlas special launch event
Last week, Commissioner Morita was proud to preview our new and improved Chicago Health
Atlas with 100 partners at a special launch event in Pilsen. I hope everyone did their homework
from last month and visited the new and improved Chicago Health Atlas at
www.chicagohealthatlas.org.
Marketplace Enrollment Kickoff
November 1 kicked off enrollment for the ACA marketplace. CDPH is a founding member of the
Illinois Coalition for Health Access, a group of providers, advocates and organizations leading a
2

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
coordinated enrollment effort across Chicago. CDPH have provided materials regarding
enrollment at aldermanic ward offices, city libraries, health clinics, and other city facilities. CDPH
is also extremely active on social media, and if any of you would like a copy of our social media
toolkit that provides sample tweets and posts that we have distributed to our partners, just let
Angelica know. Commissioner Morita also joined our congressional delegation at a kick-off in
early November at Stroger hospital and there are a number of other events to promote enrollment
through December.
Puerto Rican Evacuee Support
The Chicago Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS), Chicago Office Emergency
Management and Communications (OEMC) are operating a Multiagency Resource Center/
Hurricane Resource Center for evacuees from Puerto Rico at the Humboldt Park Field House.
CDPH, Alderman Maldonado, local community groups and our very own board member, Juan
Calderon are assisting in their efforts. CDPH is onsite coordinating immunizations, psychological
first aid training, health referrals and scheduling appointments with community providers. CDPH
and our healthcare partners have referred 142 persons to health services. CDPH also received
commitments from numerous providers interested in supporting evacuees including Erie Family
Health Center, Norwegian American Hospital, Oak Street Health, PCC West Towns and
Walgreens. Operations will run from 10 AM - 4 PM, Mondays and Tuesdays through the end of
December.
Nobody Quits
Nobody Quits Like Chicagoland (NQLC) is a city-wide initiative from November 10th-17th
focused on tobacco cessation and lung health for the greater Chicago community. Healthy
Chicago 2.0 specifically outlines tobacco control and cessation as a key health need for our
community, especially as tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable death in the
United States. Please join our NQLC partners on Friday, November 17th at Inspiration Kitchen
3504 W. Lake Street, for a day focused on the health disparities in tobacco use that negatively
impact the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer/questioning (LGBTQ) population.
Eat Smart Month
On October 24th, our WIC team attended the Food and Nutrition Conference and Expo sponsored
by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. The conference featured evidence and information
about key issues impacting the nutrition and health of Americans. In celebration of Eat Smart
Month, JoAnn Peso, Director of Nutrition in partnership with the American Heart Association will
be hosting a cooking demonstration this afternoon, November 15th at 1PM, here at 333 S. State
Street 2nd floor Boardroom and you’re invited.
Blood Donation Drive and Resolution
At the request of Ald. Burke, we have coordinated a City Hall blood drive on November 28 with
the Red Cross. Because the FDA prohibits gay and bisexual men from donating blood, we also
understand several aldermen will be introducing a resolution calling on the FDA to reverse the
policy of prohibiting gay and bisexual men who are sexually active from donating blood. The
policy is an anachronism from the early 1980’s when little was understood about HIV. Science
says there is no need for it today and more blood donations means more lives saved.
3

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
2018 Budget Announcements. Deputy Commissioner Fikirte Wagaw will explain in more detail
during her presentation today but excited to announce the following highlights.
• More Chicago children will be protected from lead.
• Chicago increases effort to ensure food safety for residents and tourist.
• City expands environmental protections.
• Chicago expands local fight against opioid epidemic.
Next, Tuesday, November 21st city council will vote on the budget.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed a student and provided an overview of
the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious disease and
health issues affecting public health. Dr. Lopes also shared that she read on-line an article on
Tom Dart, who was recognized for his work around mental health and has made sure his staff is
trained on mental health and new staff members need to earn 60 hours of mental health training.
This reminds her of how we can do good in public services and to solve public health issues many
efforts need to be made in our communities just like a mosaic work of art every piece you work on
makes the a whole piece.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
City Budget
Much of the policy progress we’ve made in the last month happened in the Mayor’s budget, which
passed out of committee over the last week. Fikirte Wagaw will go into detail on these items in her
presentation in a moment. My broad overview is that the City is poised to significantly expand our
environmental and food safety teams, using increased fees and fines to help defray the cost, as well
as a new $500K annual investment in opioid addiction treatment and services, pending final
approval from City Council. I will defer to Fikirte on the rest.
City Management Ordinance
Every year there is an ordinance containing numerous small measures to accompany the budget
and help make City government run more smoothly. This year CDPH had two measures in the
management ordinance that passed out of committee on Monday. The first is on confidential health
information. It clarifies that CDPH has the authority to ask organizations for information that may
affect health, whether for a foodborne illness outbreak or for a predictive analytic tool that helps us
target our interventions. The second is on environmental terminology and other details—like
changing the term “air pollution” to “windborne particulate matter” to make enforcement easier in
court. These measures are pending passage by the full City Council.
State: Bill backlog
At the state level, Comptroller Susana Mendoza is beginning to pay off the backlog of healthrelated bills from the two-year budget impasse. About $9 billion will go to hospitals, doctors’
offices, nursing homes, pharmacies, and other providers. About $2.5 billion of that is being applied
to Medicaid. There will still be billions more owed to human services providers and other vendors
after this round of payments.
Federal: Tax Reform
U.S. Senate leaders say their tax reform bill will include repeal of the individual mandate in the
Affordable Care Act. Without the mandate, approximately 13 million fewer people would have
insurance, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The leaders backing this move include
4

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: November 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Mitch McConnell, Rand Paul, Tom Cotton, John Cornyn, and others.
Federal: New HHS Nominee
President Trump has nominated Alex Azar as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. He is a drug company executive, formerly the president of Lilly USA. Trump has
accused drug companies of “getting away with murder” in setting drug prices. He is replacing Tom
Price, who resigned following public awareness of his use of government aircraft for personal
travel.
Presentation: “CDPH 2018 Budget,” Fikirte Wagaw, First Deputy Commissioner. Gabriel
Godwin, Senior Budget Analyst from the Budget Office was present.
Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Comment: The following topics were discussed:
• The selection process of board of health members.
• Rates of opioid cases in Chicago can be found online.
• The penalties for selling loose cigarettes.
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:31 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, December 20, 9:00 a.m.

5

 