ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 9, 2002

ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS RECOMMENDATIONS;

248898

DOCKET #7241 - ST SERVICES, Owner, 3210 West 131st Street, Blue Island, Illinois
60406, Application (No. SU-22-02; Z02007). Submitted by Environmental Compliance
Services, Rick Monroe, 207 Fair Street, Valparaiso, Indiana 46383. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE Conversion Docket #SU-22-02 for an Existing Non-Conforming
Petroleum Bulk Storage Terminal (Tank Farm) Located in the 1-3 Intensive Industrial
District for storage of petroleum and flammable liquids (existing) in Section 35 of
Worth Township. Property consists of approximately 61 .9 acres located on the north
side of 131 st Street between Homan Avenue and Kedzie Avenue in Section 35 Worth
Township. Intended use: The terminal utilized for the storage and distribution of
petroleum and petroleum related products ST Services is proposing to improving the
existing diking system at the Main Farm. RECOMMENDATION: By a unanimous
vote 5-0, the Zoning Board of Appeals of Cook County hereby recommends to
the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the instant Application of ST
Services to convert its Blue Island Petroleum Storage Terminal from a Legal
Non-Conforming Use in the 1-3 Intensive Industrial District to a Special Use in
the said 1-3 District be granted. If granted, all pertinent records, Maps and
Comprehensive Plan Shall be changed.
*****************************

252983

DOCKET #7277 - GARY P. KATSENES, Owner, Application: Variation to
reduce corner side yard setback from the required 25 feet to 7 feet for a
detached garage in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The subject
property consists of approximately 0.44 of an acre, located on the northeast
corner of 85th Court and 129th Place
in Palos Township.
RECOMMENDATION: That variation application be granted.

252984

DOCKET #7278 - OWEN COOPER, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce
left interior side yard setback from the required 15 feet to 9 feet (existing) for a
room addition in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The subject
property consists of approximately 0.49 of an acre, located on the west side of
Franklin Avenue, approximately 255 feet north of Plainfield Road in Lyons
Township. RECOMMENDATION: That variation application be granted.

252985

DOCKET #7281 - DIMITRIOS LEKKOS, Owner, Application: Variation to
reduce front yard setback from the required 25 feet to 21 feet for an addition to
the principal residence and reduce left interior side yard setback from the
required 10 feet to 4 feet for an existing accessory shed in the R-5 Single
Family Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.23
of an acre, located on the west side of Central Avenue, approximately 320 feet
south of Pleasant Street in Northfield Township. RECOMMENDATION: That
variation application be granted.

252956

DOCKET #7273 - LARRY RIPPE, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce left
interior side yard setback from the required 15 feet to 8 feet (existing) for a
shed addition in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The subject
property consists of approximately 0.69 of an acre, located on the east side of
Monitor Avenue, approximately 600 feet north of 131 st Street in Worth
Township. RECOMMENDATION: That variation application be granted.

252958

DOCKET #7276 - J. & B. PADOWSKI , Owner, Application: Variation to reduce
left interior side yard setback from the required 10 feet to 2 feet 5 inches
(existing) for a second story addition in the R-5 Single Family Residence
District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.36 of an acre,
located on the east side of Greenwood Drive, approximately 468 feet north of
Emerson Street in Maine Township. RECOMMENDATION: That variation
application be granted.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 9, 2002
PAGE2

252960

DOCKET #7280 - K. &. D. WRIGHT, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce
right interior side yard setback from the required 15 feet to 13 feet 9 inches
(existing); to reduce lot area from the required 40,000 square feet (requirement
for well and septic to 24,825 square feet (existing); and reduce lot width from
the required 150 feet to 120 feet 10 inches (existing) for an addition to existing
single family residence with well and septic setback from the required 10 feet to
4 feet in the R-4 Single Family Residence District (20,000 square feet
required). The subject property consists of approximately 0.57 of an acre,
located on the east side of Howe Terrace, approximately 97 feet south of
Arlington Lane in Palatine Township. RECOMMENDATION: That variation
application be granted.

252965

DOCKET #7282 - BASIA HOLY, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce front
yard setback from the required 37 feet to 36 feet and reduce rear yard setback
from the required 50 feet to 25 feet for an addition to single family residence
with public sewer and private well in the R-4 Single Family Residence District.
The subject property consists of approximately 0.47 of an acre, located on the
northeast corner of Woodland Court and Briarwood Lane in Palatine Township.
RECOMMENDATION: That variation application be granted.

252981

DOCKET #727 4 - CHRISTIAN METZ, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce
left interior side yard setback from the required 15 feet to 13 feet (existing) for a
room addition in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The subject
property consists of approximately 0.50 of an acre, located on the west side of
Locust Lane, approximately 332 feet south of 62nd Street in Lyons Township.
RECOMMENDATION : That variation application be granted.

252982

DOCKET #7275 - B. SZEWERNIAK, Owner, Application: Variation to reduce
left interior side yard setback from the required 10 feet to 3 feet (existing
principal) and reduce right interior side yard setback from the required 10 feet
to 4 feet (existing accessory) for a 2nd story addition in the R-5 Single Family
Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.36 of an
acre, located on the north side of Morrison Avenue, approximately 400 feet
north of Lee Street in Wheeling Township. RECOMMENDATION: That
variation application be g ranted.
*********************************

Housekeeping Amendments to the 2001 Zoning Ordinance
The Cook County State's Attorney's Office has recommended language changes to the following
articles of the Zoning Ordinance to make them consistent to amendments that were previously made
and approved. Similar changes have also been recommended to the Wireless Telecommunications
Ordinance.

Amendment to Article 4.5, R-5 Single-Family Residence District
Sponsored by Commissioner Peter N. Silvestr i and President J ohn H. Stroger, J r .
4.5.9 Special Provisions
F. Lots of Record.
A single-family residence, on a lot ofrecord on the effective date of this
comprehensive ordinance, may be established regardless of the area of the lot
or the lot width, provided there shall always be sufficient ground area left
unoccupied by a structure or paving for a proper system of sewage disposal and
water supply conforming with the standards and requirements of the Cook
County Plumbing Code and all amendments relative thereto, the Cook County
Health Department, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation district, and the
Health Departm ent of the State of Illinois. Approved sewer and water
connection permits and/or an approved private sewage system permit and an
approved individual well permit must be submitted in conjunction with a
building permit application.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY9, 2002
PAGE3

Amendment to Article 13 - Administration and Enforcement
Sponsored by Commissioner Peter N. Silvestri and President John H. Stroger, Jr.

13.2.2 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
A. Administration of this Ordinance shall be exercised through a person in the
Department of Building and Zoning designated as the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners.
B. Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall be as follows .
1. Issue, upon request, a letter verifying the zoning classification of
property to a person who is entitled to initiate a zoning amendment
including interpretations giving the meaning and intent of provisions of this
eOrdinance.

5. Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals applications for
variations, appeals and other matters which the Zoning Board of Appeals is
required to pass under act upon as provided in this Ordinance. The Zoning
Administrator shall reject applications for variations which are not
authorized by this Ordinance.
10. Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by GQrdinance,
resolution or direction provide.

13.2.3 REVIE~/ OF ALL PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
13.3.2 JURISDICTION
The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the followingjurisdiction and authority.
B. Hear and make recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on all applications for authorized variations from :mv
mrnntit::itivR rRm1irnm Rnt of as provided in this Ordinance.

13.3.5 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from an administrative order, requirement
or determination of the Department of Building and Zoning under this Ordinance.
An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person or entity
or by any officer, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the
Zoning Administrator Department of Building and Zoning under this Ordinance. An appeal shall be
taken within thirty-five (35) days after the date of the Zoning Administrator' s Department of Building
and Zoning ' s decision by filing with the Zoning
Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds for the appeal. Notice of appeal shall be given to all persons or entities
entitled to receive notice as provided by Section 13.7.3.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for hearing
an appeal and give notice to the aggrieved person or entity and the Zoning
Administrator Department of Building and Zoning. The hearing shall take place within thirty (30) days
after the Zoning Board of Appeals receives notice of appeal.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a written decision on the appeal within
thirty (30) days after the hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward its
decision to all parties of record. The Zoning Board of Appeals may affirm,
reverse, wholly or in part, or modify a decision of the Department of Building and
Zoning. A written decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall contain findings
of fact which support its decision. If the Zoning Board of Appeals affirms the

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 9, 2002
PAGE4

decision of the Zoning Administrator Department of Building and Zoning, the decision of the Zoning
Board of Appeals is a final administrative determination and shall be subject to review as provided by
law.
If the Zoning Board of Appeals reverses the decision of the Zoning Administrator Department of
Building and Zoning, the Zoning Administrator Department of Building and Zoning has the right to
appeal the Zoning Board of Appeals' decision to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The matter
shall be heard upon the record of the Zoning and Building Committee, or a subcommittee,
(" Committee") of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. No additional testimony shall be taken
and no additional documents shall be filed. The Committee shall provide notice of its hearing of an
appeal as provided in this section. The Committee may affirm, reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the
decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the Committee reverses the Zoning Board of Appeals, the
decision of the Committee shall be a final administrative determination and shall be subject to review as
provided by law. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain complete records of all
actions relative to appeals.
13.3.6 SECRETARY OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
A. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
B. Duties of the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as follows.
1. Maintain records of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
2. Forward to the Cook County Board of Commissioners final findings of fact
and recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals for map amendments
and special uses and such other matters under this Ordinance which require
consideration or action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
3. Administer duties specifically identified in this Ordinance, as well as duties
which may be delegated to the Secretary by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and the Zoning Board of Appeals.
13.6.1 PURPOSE
The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, may grant or deny a
variation of ten (10) percent or less from the quantitative requirements of this
Ordinance and shall recommend to the Cook County Board of Commissioners to
grant or deny authorized variations in excess often (10) percent from any quantitative
requirement of under this Ordinance. In making a decision or a recommendation, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall make findings of fact in accordance with standards
prescribed in this Ordinance for variations, and shall also find that there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships which prevent the applicant from
strictly following regulations of this Ordinance.
13.6.2 APPLICATION AND NOTICE OF HEARING
An application for a variation shall be filed in triplicate with the Department of
Building and Zoning. The Zoning Administrator shall reject applications for
variations which do not comply with the provisions of this Ordinance. The
Department of Building and Zoning shall forward one copy of the application to
the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose district the property is located.
The application shall contain such information as required by the rules of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Department of Building and Zoning. Notice of the time and place of a public
hearing shall be published at least once, not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days,
before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook County. The published notice may be
supplemented by additional notice as required by the rules of the Zoning Board of Appeals. In addition,
notice of public hearings shall be as follows.
13.6.3 STANDARDS
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant or deny a variance, or recommend to
the Board of Commissioners that it grant or deny a variance, unless it the Zoning Board of Appeals first
makes written findings of fact on each of the following standards based upon evidence presented.
A. Physical surroundings, shape or topographical condition of the
property would result in hardship upon the owner, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, if the provisions of this Ordinance were

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 9, 2002
PAGES

followed.
B. Conditions which are unique to the property exist and are not
applicable to other properties within the same zoning classification.
C. Variation sought is not based exclusively upon a desire to make the
property more profitable.
D. Hardship or alleged difficulty is caused by tfle this Ordinance and not by
any person presently having an interest in the property.

13.6.4 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose or, in cases of variations in excess of
ten (I 0) percent, recommend to the Board of Commissioners, such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
reduce or minimize the effect of the variation upon other properties in the
neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of this Ordinance. Failure
of the applicant to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed shall
constitute a violation of this Ordinance.

13.6.5 AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS
A variation from the regulations of this Ordinance may be granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals Cook County Board of Commissioners only in the following instances and in
accordance with standards set forth in this Ordinance.
A. Pe1mit a yard or setback less than the yard or setback required by this
Ordinance, but in no event shall the variation be greater than ten
(10) percent from any quantitative requirement of this Ordinance.
B. Permit the use of a lot or lots for a use which is otherwise prohibited
solely because of the insufficient area or width of the lot or lots,--btft
in no event shall the area of the lot authorized by the variation be
less than ninety (90) percent of the required area. The Zoning Board of
Appeals Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not grant a variation
which results in the division of a conforming lot or lots into two or more
nonconforming lots. The Zoning Board of Appeals Cook County Board of
Commissioners shall not allow a lot less than twenty forty thousand (24_0,000)
square feet to be used for an individual septic system and water supply system,
unless the Cook County Department of Public Health has approved the
system~.

C. Pennit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as a facility for
two (2) or more uses, provided the substantial use of the facility by
each user does not take place at the same hours of the same days of
the week, and that the Cook Counh' Hi2hv1av Deoartment has
approved the proposed request.
D. Reduce required off-street parking or off-street loading facilities 9y
not more than one (I) parking or loading space or ten ( 10) percent of
the applicable requirements, whichever number is greater, provided
that the Cook County Highway Department has approved the
proposed request.
E. Increase by not more than ten (10) percent the maximum distance
that required parking spaces are permitted to be located from the use
served, provided that the Cook County Highway Department has
approved the proposed request.
F. Increase dimensions or square footage of signs as provided in Article
12 and Ordinance No. 02-0-05.
G. Increase the maximum gross floor area of any use by an amount not
to exceed ten ( 10) percent of the floor area ratio required by this
Ordinance.
H. Grant variations for property located in a floodplain in accordance
with the Floodplain Ordinance for Cook County, Illinois.
I. Reduce lot size when property has been diminished in size by
eminent domain or by a conveyance in lieu of an eminent domain
proceeding.
J. Grant height variations for freestanding cellular tower facilities by

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 9, 2002
PAGE6

an amount not to exceed ten (l 0) percent of the permitted height as provided in
Ordinance No. 01-0-32. No height variation for a cellular radio facility which
is attached to or installed on a building shall be allowed.

13.6.6 GRANTING RECOMMENDING VARIATIONS
A majority vote of four (4) three (3) of the five (5) voting members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is
required to.;
A. Grant a variation of ten ( 10) percent or less.
B:--R[ecommend to the Cook County Board of Commissioners to grant
or deny a variation in excess often (10) percent.
No decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals Cook County Board of
Commissioners granting a variation or recommending to the Board of
Commissioners that a variation be granted or denied shall be valid for more
than one (1) year, within which time unless a building permit must be is
obtained and construction of the building or the use commenced.

13.6.7 EFFECT OF DENIAL
An application for a variation often (10) percent or less which has been denied
>+vholly or in part by the Zoning Board of Appeals, or an application for a variation
of more than ten (10) percent which has been denied wholly or in part by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, shall not be resubmitted for a period of
one (1) year from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Zoning Board of Appeals.

Amendment to Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance, 01-0-32
Sponsored by Commissioner Peter N. Silvestri and President John H. Stroger, Jr.

1.4 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose or, in cases of variations in excess often (10)
percent, recommend to the Board of Commissioners such conditions and restrictions
upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to reduce or minimize the
effect of the variation upon other properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out
the general intent of this Ordinance.

1.5 ACTION BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
A. Final action shall not be taken by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
on an application for a variation in excess often (10) percent until the Zoning
Board of Appeals' findings of fact and recommendations have been received.
B. Variations in excess of ten ( 10) percent shall be passed by a favorable vote of
three-quarters (3/4) of all members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not
recommended the variation.
C. Applications for variations in excess of ten (10) percent shall be deemed
denied if the Cook County Board of Commissioners has not taken final action
within sixty (60) days ofreceiving the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and
recommendations. The sixty (60) day period may be extended if a request for
an extension is made by the applicant or by a Cook County Board
Commissioner.
D. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose conditions and
restrictions upon a variation in excess of ten (10) percent in order to assure that the public
health, safety and welfare is adequately protected.
*The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for Thursday, August 1, 2002.

 