MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - VIDEO
OPEN SESSION
September 20, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, September 20, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Video of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 2nd floor at 110 W. Randolph at the JRTC Building, Chicago, Illinois.
The Open Session on Video Gaming started at approximately 10:39 A.M. Present were
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Lee Gould, Michael Holewinski and Maribeth Vander Weele.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES – Open Session
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 16, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS The Chairman stated that the testing process is complete.
ADMINSTRATOR’S COMMENTS –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the Central Communication System is in place, we have 8
test sites; only a third of the terminal operators have their financial information back to the
Board.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
Caleb Melamed – Legislative Liaison to the Board.
Sections 78 (a) (3) and (b) of the Video Gaming Act grant to the Illinois Gaming Board both
regular and emergency rulemaking authority regarding the Video Gaming Act. At the September
20, 2012 open meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board, the Board’s legal staff will submit a
proposal to amend the Board’s rules on video gaming [11 Ill. Admin. Code 1800] as follows:
The Board shall disable video gaming terminals (“VGTs”) operated by terminal operators
who is more than 48 hours overdue in making tax payments.
Section 60 (e) of the Video Gaming Act [230 ILCS 40/60 (e)] currently requires terminal
operators to report and remit taxes on net terminal income within 15 days after the 15th day of
each month and within 15 days after the end of each month. Under Section 1800.250 of the
video gaming rules, terminal operators must “maintain a separate bank account for each licensed

 video gaming location for deposit of aggregate revenues generated from the play of video
gaming terminals and allow for electronic fund transfers for tax payments.”
The proposed rulemaking adds a new Section 1800.1510 to the video gaming rules directing the
Administrator to disable video gaming terminals operated by a terminal operator who is more
than 48 hours overdue in remitting taxes due to non-sufficient funds in its separate bank account.
It also specifies that such a terminal operator shall be liable for the penalty assessment of 1.5
percent a month on the unpaid balance currently imposed by Section 60 (e) of the Act.
In addition, the rulemaking provides that a terminal operator who is more than 48 hours overdue
in making a tax remittance shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Board under existing
Section 1800.310 a) 13) of the video gaming rules.
Finally, the rulemaking provides that the provisions of the new section shall not apply when the
delay in tax remittance has been caused by an error of a financial institution.
• Proposed Amendment to the Video Gaming Rules – Section 1800.1510
Member Holewinski moved that the Board authorize staff to submit a proposal to
amend the Board’s rules on video gaming: Section 1510 regarding Non-payment
of Taxes for First Notice Filing with the Secretary of State upon final review and
approval by the Administrator. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLICE COMMENTARY –
Kathy Gilroy –
Good morning, Chairman Jaffe, Board members and staff. I speak as a member of the public. I
have the utmost respect for you, Chairman Jaffe, and will try not to antagonize you this time. I
am here to make three requests regarding the roll-out of video gambling.
My first request is regarding signage for licensed video gambling locations. The conductors of
every type of gambling that has been legalized so far in Illinois, race tracks, the Lottery, bingo,
off-track betting parlors and casinos, are required by law to post signs, telling how someone may
obtain assistance for a gambling problem. Unfortunately, that requirement was not included in
the Video Gaming Act. Yet, slot machines are known as the “crack cocaine” of gambling. In
addition, what is commonly called “convenience gambling”, which is slot machines in
neighborhood locations, is the most addictive of all. That is exactly what has been authorized by
the Video Gaming Act. Certainly, if signage for problem gambling is required for less addictive
forms of gambling, it should also be required for video gambling. I realize that this is not the
legislature, and you cannot change the law. But, after discussing this with your Administrator,
Mark Ostrowski, he suggested that I bring this issue to the Board’s attention today and ask.
When even once per year Las Vegas nights are required to have such signs on their temporary
premises, is there some way that similar signs can be posted in these permanent licensed video
gambling locations, in the area where the video gambling machines are located? I’m sure that

2

 there will be many video gamblers who will need that crucial information. It would be a great
service to the public to provide it on the premises where it is needed.
I will tell you a story to illustrate my second request. A couple of weeks ago, I called a police
department in an Illinois town about 100 miles from here and asked the officer who answered the
phone about gambling machines. Here is what he told me. He said that now those machines are
legal. They just have to be where they can be seen and not in a back room. He said that each bar
was allowed up to five machines. He then asked another officer when that took place. They
agreed on “a couple of months ago”. He had no clue that there was a difference between the old
grey machines and the legal video gambling machines that you are licensing. He did not know
of the Gaming Board’s website. When I told him there was a press release directed to police
departments, he could not find it. So, I would like to request that the link called “Central
Communication System Deemed Functional” be re-titled to a more explanatory name, such as
“Notice to Local Police Departments” or “Grey Machine Possession Is Now a Felony”,
something along those lines. Especially for someone who has never been to your site before, it
will make it much easier to find.
My third request is an extension of the previous one. My guess is that most of the police
departments in Illinois are as clueless about gambling machines as the officer I spoke with. I’m
sure that there is a database somewhere of all of the Illinois police departments. Could someone
email that press release to that entire database and request that it be posted where all of the
officers would see it? That would be much more proactive than waiting for a complaint or
problem and then trying to educate each individual police department and each individual police
officer.
Mel P. Thillens, Thillens Inc. –
Mr. Thillens addressed the Board expressing his concern regarding armored car companies not
being licensed. Mr. Thillens commented that the armored car service assists terminal operators
in payout systems. Mr. Thillens stated that he feels it is necessary to license armored car
companies. Mr. Thillens has concerns about the security of the industry; he wanted to address
this to the Board.
Robert Riffle - attorney
Mr. Riffle addressed the Board and staff regarding Social Clubs and inquired why they cannot be
licensed to be “establishments” for the video gambling machines. He said; specifically, there is
no provision in the statute prohibiting “Social Clubs” from being licensed. Mr. Riffle states that
“Social Clubs” have liquor licenses so they should be able to be licensed by the Board for video
gambling. Social Clubs are seeking consideration from the Board and staff.
MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR AND SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

VGT Manufacturing, Inc. – Renewal of Manufacturer License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board renew
the Manufacturer License of VGT Manufacturing, Inc. effective September 20,

3

 2012 for a period of one year, expiring in September 2013. Member Holewinski
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

VGT Manufacturing, Inc. – Initial Distributor License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve VGT
Manufacturing, Inc. for a Distributor License, effective September 20, 2012 for a
period of one year, expiring in September 2013. Member Holewinski seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

PDS Gaming-Illinois, LLC – Initial Distributor License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve
PDS Gaming-Illinois, LLC for a Distributor License, effective September 20,
2012 for a period of one year, expiring in September 2013. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Bell Gaming LLC; Cadence Video Gaming Corporation; and VGT Illinois, LLC
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
Bell Gaming LLC; Cadence Video Gaming Corporation; and VGT Illinois, LLC
for Terminal Operator Licenses effective September 20, 2012 for a period of one
year, expiring in September 2013. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Spooner Amusement Inc.
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board deny the
Terminal Operator License application of Spooner Amusement Inc. Member
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

TECHNICIAN & TERMINAL HANDLER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Technician and Terminal Handler Licenses – Approvals & Denials
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve
13 applications for Technician Licenses and 103 applications for Terminal
Handler Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

VIDEO GAMING LOCATION LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Video Gaming Location Licenses – Approvals & Denials
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve 157 applications for Video Gaming Location Licenses. Further, Member
Vander Weele moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the
following Video Gaming Location License Applicants:

4

 





VFW Post 6368 in Dupo, Illinois
Wayfree Corp. d/b/a Maneuvers
The Frosty Mug, Inc. d/b/a The Frosty Mug
Diana J. Young d/b/a Monkey Business
JCH, Inc. d/b/a J.J.’s 610 Tap

Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Minier Lanes, Inc. d/b/a Minier Lanes
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve
Minier Lanes, Inc. d/b/a Minier Lanes for a Video Gaming Location License
effective September 20, 2012 for a period of one year, expiring in September
2013. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. Member Vander Weele opposed the
motion. Chairman Jaffe was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.

•

Pekin’s Hole in the Wall, Inc. d/b/a Hole in the Wall
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve
Pekin’s Hole in the Wall, Inc. d/b/a Hole in the Wall for a Video Gaming
Location License effective September 20, 2012 for a period of one year, expiring
in September 2013. Member Gould seconded the motion. Member Vander Weele
opposed the motion. Chairman Jaffe was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3
to 1.

•

B J’s Place, Ltd. d/b/a B.J.’s Place
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve BJ’s
Place, Ltd. d/b/a BJ’s Place for a Video Gaming Location License effective
September 20, 2012 for a period of one year, expiring in September 2013.
Member Holewinski seconded the motion. Member Vander Weele opposed the
motion. Chairman Jaffe was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.

•

Robert L. Miller d/b/a Trust Me Tavern
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board rescind
its August 16, 2012 Motion to deny Robert L. Miller d/b/a Trust Me Tavern’s
application for a Video Gaming Location License. Member Vander Weele further
moved that the Board approve Robert L. Miller d/b/a Trust Me Tavern for a
Video Gaming Location License effective September 20, 2012 for a period of one
year, expiring in September 2013. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Boss’, Inc. d/b/a Boss’ Lounge
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board rescind its
August 16, 2012 Motion to deny Boss’, Inc. d/b/a Boss’ Lounge’s application for a
Video Gaming Location License. Member Holewinski further moved that the
Board approve Boss’, Inc. d/b/a Boss’ Lounge for a Video Gaming Location
License effective September 20, 2012 for a period of one year, expiring in

5

 September 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
•

Requests for Hearing –Clam 1, Inc. d/b/a Cam’s Place
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board deny
the request for hearing of Clam 1, Inc. d/b/a Cam’s Place, as it has not offered
facts that establish a prima facie case. Member Holewinski seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Requests for Hearing – Illinois Gaming Investments, LLC; Illinois Hospitality
Gaming, LLC; Prestige Gaming, LLC; CSR Gaming, LLC; Action Gaming,
LLC; AAA Gaming, LLC; and Ace Gaming of Illinois, LLC
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the requests for hearing
of Illinois Gaming Investments, LLC; Illinois Hospitality Gaming, LLC; Prestige
Gaming, LLC; CSR Gaming, LLC; Action Gaming, LLC; AAA Gaming, LLC;
and Ace Gaming of Illinois, LLC be denied as they have not offered facts that
establish a prima facie case. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

In Re: the Denial of the Terminal Operator License Application of Midwest
Amusement & Gaming, Inc.
Pursuant to Section 690 of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Holewinski moved
for the adoption and entry of a Final Board Order adopting the Administrative
Law Judge’s Recommendation and granting a Terminal Operator license to
Midwest Amusement & Gaming, Inc. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 11:22 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

6

 