 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Law Enforcement Committee

Tuesday, September 8, 2015 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler and Fritchey (5)

Absent: Commissioners Goslin and Tobolski (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

15-5209
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/29/2015

This Committee Minutes was deferred until the next meeting.

15-4300
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

TO ANALYZE THE ELECTRONIC DISSEMINATION OF INDECENT VISUAL DEPICTIONS OF
MINORS

WHEREAS, technology continues to evolve at the speed of light, and is constantly providing us with new ways
to communicate with each other; and

Page 1 of 2

WHEREAS, children are becoming exposed to these technologies and other social media sites at earlier ages
than ever before; and

WHEREAS, the evolving nature of technology and the younger age of its users has made these children more
and more susceptible to exploitation by both adults and each other; and

WHEREAS, ?sexting? is commonly known as the transmittal of sexually explicit messages primarily between
mobile phones is prohibited, in some form, throughout the United States; and

WHEREAS, the State of Illinois? statute on the matter states that a ?minor shall not distribute or disseminate an
indecent visual depiction of another minor through the use of a computer or electronic communication device?
(705 ILCS and

WHEREAS, the penalty for such an act is a misdemeanor, usually requiring court supervision and counseling;
and

WHEREAS, Cook County has a legitimate interest in the protection of the privacy and safety of its minor
residents; and

WHEREAS, under the ?home rule authority? granted to Cook County by the constitution of the State of Illinois,
the county may enact a stricter ordinance than exists under the state statute.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners will analyze and review the
current Cook County ordinance and state laws regarding the electronic dissemination of indecent depictions of
minors.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler and Fritchey (5)
Absent: Commissioners Goslin and Tobolski (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo to adjourn the
meeting.

Respectfully submitted,

x??u 25.22:;

?hairman Secretary

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 2 of2

