REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONTRACT COMPLIANCE
April 13, 2005
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Maldonado, Moreno and
Peraica (5)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler and Goslin (2)
*Commissioner Butler was absent due to a meeting at Provident Hospital.

Also
Present:

Commissioners Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Quigley and Suffredin; Colette Holt,
Attorney at Law and MBE/WBE Consultant; Betty Hancock Perry, Contract
Compliance Administrator, Office of Contract Compliance and Gladys Bedenfield,
Team Leader Over Certification, Office of Contract Compliance

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Contract Compliance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Wednesday, April 13, 2005 at the hour of 9:30 A.M. in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

267845

A RESOLUTION TO DEVELOP CONSTITUTIONAL CONTRACT SET-ASIDE
PROGRAM FOR MINORITY AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Forrest Claypool,
County Commissioner; Co-Sponsored by Mike Quigley and Larry Suffredin, County
Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION TO DEVELOP CONSTITUTIONAL CONTRACT SETASIDE PROGRAM FOR MINORITY AND WOMEN-OWNED
BUSINESSES
WHEREAS, opening the doors of economic opportunity to minority and women-owned
businesses should be a top priority of County government; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government spends hundreds of millions of dollars annually
for goods and services; and

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 2
WHEREAS, recent revelations show that Cook County issues a mere seven percent
of its construction contracts annually to minority businesses including a mere one
percent to African-American companies and one percent to women-owned
businesses; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government serves a diverse population that is
approximately 26 percent African-American, 20 percent Hispanic, and five percent
Asian, according to the U.S. Census Bureau; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government should reflect to the extent possible the
diversity of its citizens; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government can use its vast contracting opportunities to
assist in the development and growth of small and minority-owned businesses; and
WHEREAS, the City of Chicago, the Chicago Park District and other government
agencies have proven successful in awarding high percentages of government
contracts to minority and women-owned businesses; and
WHEREAS, court decisions have required a higher standard of proof of past
discrimination in order to justify set-aside programs, as well as more narrowly-tailored
remedies for such discrimination; and
WHEREAS, to meet those new standards requires an extensive and sophisticated
fact-finding and legal process.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Cook County Board President John H.
Stroger, Jr. appoint a special task force charged with developing standards necessary
to meet recent court decisions and reconstitute Cook County’s set-aside program for
minority and women-owned businesses; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board, upon the
recommendation of the President, hire an outside expert experienced and skilled in
establishing the legal steps, information and fact gathering, public processes and
other measures necessary to create and forward to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners a contract set-aside program that meets constitutional muster; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the contract compliance division of the finance
department of Cook County shall, in consultation with the purchasing agent, develop a
target-market program for small or economically-disadvantaged businesses as a first
step in opening new opportunities for the many minority and women-owned
businesses that would qualify, including those small companies not owned by
minorities.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the task force report to the Cook County Board
within 90 days as to its progress and present a timeline for presenting a new and legal
contract set-aside ordinance to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for its
consideration, as well as other recommended steps to encourage and support greater
participation by minority and women-owned businesses in County contracting.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 3
*Referred to the Committee on Contract Compliance on 10/19/04.
Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved to Receive and File
Communication No. 267845. The motion carried.
270506

A RESOLUTION TO CONDUCT AN OUTSIDE INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF ALL
CURRENT
MINORITY
BUSINESS
ENTERPRISE/WOMEN’S
BUSINESS
ENTERPRISE (MBE/WBE) CONTRACTS TO DETERMINE THE LEGITMACY OF
THEIR CURENT MBE/WBE STATUS (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a
Proposed Resolution sponsored by Mike Quigley, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the 2000 Census determined that minorities account for 52.4 percent of
the population of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, minority-owned businesses with paid employees constitute only 14.5
percent of the total number of firms, 2.9 percent of total business sales and receipts,
4.8 percent of total employees, and 3.6 percent of total payroll in Cook County,
according to the 1997 Economic Census; and
WHEREAS, women-owned businesses with paid employees constitute only 16
percent of the total number of firms, 4.1 percent of total business sales and receipts,
7.7 percent of total employees, and 5.7 percent of total payroll in Cook County,
according to the 1997 Economic Census; and
WHEREAS, this dramatic under-representation of minorities and women in the
economic life of Cook County is a serious socioeconomic problem; and
WHEREAS, the certification of women and minority business enterprises was
originally established in order to help women and minority-owned businesses by
increasing their opportunities and ending the disparity in contracts awarded to women
and minority owned businesses; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners rightly enacted the Cook
County Minority Business Enterprise/Women’s Business Enterprise Ordinance to
address the problem of low minority and women-owned business participation; and
WHEREAS, abuse in the County's minority and women-owned business assistance
programs harms those minority and women-owned businesses which abide by the
rules and should be the legitimate beneficiaries of the Cook County Minority Business
Enterprise/Women’s Business Enterprise Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, recently a sub-contract with a county certified minority business was
found by a federal magistrate to serve no “commercially useful” function and has
exposed the County to lawsuits; and
WHEREAS, other local government bodies, such as Maricopa County, Arizona, have
determined that it is better to outsource their MBE/WBE certification programs
because outsourcing is more cost effective, non-politicized, and objective.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 4
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that an outside, independent, audit of all
prime contractors who have subcontractors participating in the MBE/WBE program
contracts be conducted to determine the legitimacy of their current MBE/WBE status,
and the degree to which the prime contractors are adhering to their subcontractor
obligations in accordance with the rules of the MBE/WBE program; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County should immediately begin the process
of outsourcing the certification of MBE/WBE contractors through a competitive bid
process and that the sole function of the Cook County Office of Contract Compliance
should be to monitor certified MBE/WBE’s compliance with the MBE/WBE program
including performing periodic site visits to MBE/WBE business locations, verifying
prime contractor contractual obligations to subcontractors, and expanding the vendor
outreach program.
*Referred to the Committee on Contract Compliance on 04/06//05.
Commissioner Quigley recommended that all of the existing purchasing ordinances and amendments
be compiled into one purchasing ordinance; he noted that the Ethics Ordinance includes all relevant
ordinances and amendments.
Commissioner Suffredin clarified that all County ordinances are currently being codified and that
Chapter Ten of this codification will compile contract compliance ordinances and amendments.
Colette Holt, Attorney at Law and MBE/WBE Consultant, provided the following status report regarding
the development of the proposed MBE/WBE Ordinance:
As a preface, Ms. Holt stated that Cook County affirmative-action program had been deemed
unconstitutional by the federal government. However, the outcome of recent relevant court cases
indicates that the legal climate might be conducive to creating a new, County interim affirmative action
ordinance that would pass “strict constitutional scrutiny.”
Ms. Holt next explained the various steps that are being undertaken to create a new ordinance
regarding only the construction portion: The Purchasing Agent submitted a mailing list and a list of
quotations submitted for all Fiscal Year 2004 open-market quotations. Data is also being collected
regarding the effectiveness of MBE/WBE ordinances nationwide; this data supports the creation of such
a County ordinance. National data specifically reveals that when discrimination ordinances are struck
down minority bid participation plummets. Relevant court decisions in other jurisdictions are being
reviewed. Also being reviewed is the effectiveness of the County’s race- and gender- neutral
procedures currently being utilized in construction purchasing, as well as the County’s contracting
policies and procedures.
After this research and analysis has been completed, Ms. Holt will draft a proposed interim ordinance to
be reviewed by County officials and their attorneys. Recommendations by these parties will then be
reviewed and incorporated into the proposed interim ordinance. A more complete analysis would have
to be performed in order to put forward a legally sustainable, permanent ordinance. Ms. Holt hopes to
tender a proposed interim ordinance to the Board by the start of summer.
Commissioner Quigley asked whether the current Ordinance is being revised and reinstituted.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 5
Ms. Holt replied in the negative. She stated that, rather, the new proposed interim ordinance is based
on new evidence which supports the position that MBE/WBE programs are effective and are also
consistent with the federal constitution.
Commissioner Quigley inquired when Ms. Holt began her duties as the MBE/WBE Consultant.
Ms. Holt replied that she has been conducting research and analysis regarding the proposed interim
ordinance for approximately four to six weeks.
In response to Commissioner Claypool’s inquiry, Ms. Holt provided an overview of the City of Chicago’s
Task Force which is investigating this issue.
Commissioner Claypool asked whether Ms. Holt has a formal contract with Cook County regarding her
work on the proposed interim ordinance.
Ms. Holt replied that she was tendered a letter that she considered it in essence to be a contract.
Commissioner Claypool voiced his frustration at the amount of time it took to bring Ms. Holt on board as
a MBE/WBE consultant.
Commissioner Suffredin asked whether the Diversity Action Committee has been involved in research
and analysis for the proposed interim ordinance.
Ms. Holt replied in the affirmative.
Commissioner Maldonado inquired when Ms. Holt expects to be finished drafting the proposed interim
ordinance.
Ms. Holt replied that she expects to be finished with the draft by the end of June.
Commissioner Maldonado asked whether the proposed interim ordinance will only address the
construction industry.
Ms. Holt replied in the affirmative, noting that this was the only part of the existing ordinance that had
been enjoined.
Commissioner Maldonado inquired whether Ms. Holt will be involved in monitoring the program.
Ms. Holt replied in the negative.
Commissioner Moreno provided the following outlined regarding the reasonable timeline followed to
expedite the drafting of the proposed interim ordinance and to bring Ms. Holt on board in a timely
manner: Commissioner Claypool put forth the proposal in October 14, 2004. The contract was
authorized by the president in December of 2004. The contract proceeded through the normal
channels; as a professional services contract no Board approval was required. The contract was
executed in February 2005, approximately one month before Ms. Holt began her work with the
proposed interim ordinance.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 6
Commissioner Gorman asked whether the proposed interim ordinance will stipulate that a fixed
percentage of contracts must be awarded to minority-owned businesses.
Ms. Holt replied in the negative. She explained that this would not pass “strict constitutional scrutiny.”
Commissioner Moreno requested that Ms. Holt provide a report on the constitutional requirements for
the proposed interim proposal.
Ms. Holt agreed to provide this report to the Board.
Betty Hancock Perry, Contract Compliance Administrator, Office of Contract Compliance, provided an
explanation of the certification and recertification processes which the Office of Contract Compliance
conducts on behalf of minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses. She detailed the
processes as follows:
Applications for certification and recertification are assigned to a certification officer who reviews the file
to determine whether all necessary documents are submitted. A checklist is utilized to determine an
applicant’s eligibility for the MBE/WBE program. If the application is incomplete, or required documents
are not submitted, a letter is written to the applicant requesting submission of the missing pieces of the
application within ten calendar days. If there has been no submittal by the tenth day, a second notice is
sent notifying the applicant that their submittal is past due. If the applicant does not respond, the
application becomes inactive. If clarification of the application is needed, a letter is sent to the applicant
requesting clarification. If clarification is not received, the officer proceeds to write a pre-denial letter
explaining why, based on the eligibility requirements, the applicant’s firm is not certifiable. This predenial letter is then presented to the denial committee, which is comprised of certification officers. This
denial committee reviews the file to either approve or disapprove the pre-denial letter. If a majority of
the members of the denial committee are in agreement with the pre-denial letter, they approve it, and
this letter is sent to the applicant. The applicant’s firm then has fifteen days to respond in writing and to
submit any documents which might cause a reversal of the denial committee’s decision. If the applicant
does not respond within the allotted time, or the documents submitted are not satisfactory, then a final
denial letter is sent to the applicant. The firm is then placed on the denial certification list; the
consequences of being on this list are that the firm can neither bid nor subcontract as a MBE/WBE
enterprise on Cook County contracts, regardless of their certification with the City of Chicago or any
other acceptable certifying agencies. If all documents are reviewed and found to be satisfactory, a site
visit is performed by a compliance officer. An on-site investigation report is completed at the firm, and
pictures are taken of the facility. A thorough final review is completed and a letter of certification is
issued to the applicant.
Regarding recertification, the applicant’s submitted documents are reviewed for new information and
changes. If the reviewer concludes that the applicant’s firm is not eligible for recertification, the
applicant’s firm is notified of this in writing, the applicant is decertified and is placed on the denial list. If
the applicant indicates that no information has changed, the officer reviews the file utilizing the items on
the check list. If the applicant has not submitted all necessary documents or if the application is
incomplete, a letter is sent to the applicant’s firm indicating these findings. If there is no response
within the allotted time, the firm is inactivated. When an application is received that includes all
necessary information and documents, the applicant is issued a letter of recertification indicating their
area of specialty.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 7
Commissioner Quigley asked whether businesses that are certified as MBE/WBE by other
governmental agencies are automatically granted certification by the County.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied in the affirmative, for being included on a bid. However, the Office of
Contract Compliance will then require the vendor to certify with Cook County.
Commissioner Quigley inquired what action the County takes if a business certification is revoked by
another governmental agency.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied that an investigation is begun. Additionally she stated that if an outside
source claims that a business is out of compliance, an investigation is also begun.
Commissioner Quigley inquired what measures are undertaken to ensure that an MBE/WBE business
is not a front for a white-owned business.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied that site checks are performed and payrolls are reviewed to verify
personnel.
Commissioner Quigley asked whether the Contract Compliance Department reports to the Board that
the MBE/WBE status of a business has been revoked or if this is only addressed internally within the
Contract Compliance Department.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied that this is only addressed within the Contract Compliance Department.
Commissioner Quigley inquired whether Ms. Hancock Perry would consider outsourcing any of the
contract compliance work so as to avoid any conflict with the Ethics Ordinance.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied in the negative.
Commissioner Maldonado inquired what sanctions are levied upon a business when the Contract
Compliance Department determines that this business has fraudulently claimed MBE/WBE status.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied that the case is referred to the State’s Attorney’s Office, and if the fraud is
confirmed, the culpable business is barred from doing further business with the County. She further
added that payment would possibly be withheld from the fraudulent prime contractor.
Commissioner Maldonado inquired whether the existing Ordinance allows brokers to participate in the
affirmative action program.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied in the affirmative.
In response to Commissioner Maldonado’s inquiry, Ms. Hancock Perry and Gladys Bedenfield, Team
Leader Over Certification, Office of Contract Compliance, provided statistics regarding the following:
the number of contracting and subcontracting businesses participating in the affirmative action
program; the number of decertified businesses; and the specific allocation of Contract Compliance
Department staff to various duties.
Commissioner Maldonado voiced his concern that the Contract Compliance Department staff is not
large enough to adequately monitor contract compliance.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 13, 2005
PAGE 8
Commissioner Maldonado inquired whether Ms. Hancock Perry would support an audit of prime
contractors and MBE/WBE subcontractors.
Ms. Hancock Perry replied in the negative.
Commissioner Peraica reiterated Commissioner Quigley’s suggestion that outside auditing of
MBE/MWE firms would be productive.
The following people offered testimony:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

Hermene Hartman – President, ABLE
Claire M. Williams – Director of Marketing, Environmental Design
Tracey Alston – President, Danielle Ashley Communications
Dr. Helen A. Randolph– President, 3 R Health Care
Vince Rangel – Rangel & Associates
Donna Gaines – Rainbow PUSH Coalition Trade Bureau
Cesar Santoy – Executive Director, HAGIA
Simone Travis – Cosmopolitan Chamber of Commerce
Jay Stewart – Executive Director, Better Government Association
Zakryscha (Zak) Hayes – President, Precise Healthcare Staffing
Norma Williams – President and CEO, NJW Associates
Martin P. Greene – Partner, Greene and Letts/ABLE
Wallace “Gator” Bradley – President and CEO, United In Peace, Inc.
George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Vice Chair Silvestri, moved to Introduce and Defer the
amendments to Communication No. 270506. The motion carried.
Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner
Communication No. 270506. The motion carried.

Maldonado,

moved

to

Defer

Vice Chairman Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Maldonado.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Contract Compliance

____________________________
Bobbie L. Steele, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Michelle Harris, Secretary

 