REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
July 13, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Beavers, Gorman, Moreno and Peraica (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Steele and Commissioner Gainer (2)

Also
Present:

Kevin Givens, Director, Environmental Control, Bureau of Administration

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Environmental Control of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, July 13, 2010 at the hour of 1:30 PM in the Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

296492

DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE).
Transmitting a Communication dated September 26, 2008, by Kevin N. Givens,
Director, Department of Environmental Control:
requesting authorization to amend Chapter 30 Environmental Control, Article IX,
Sections 30-960 through 30-969 as it pertains to the recycling of demolition debris
and amend Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 as it pertains to the demolition debris
recycling permit fee.
The purpose of these amendments is to increase the amount of demolition debris in
suburban Cook County that is recycled. Regulating this activity will insure that a
minimum of 50% of demolition debris is recycled. This type of regulatory activity
imposes a higher level of environmental responsibility among contractors
performing demolition projects in Cook County while insuring an increase in the
production of recycled materials.
Paid fees will be deposited in the Cook County Waste Management Fund. The
purpose of the fee is to provide assistance for community based recycling activities
and supplement the resources of the Office of Environmental Control that must be
utilized to process permits, monitor and enforce this Ordinance.
DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook
County Board of Commissioners.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 2

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING ORDINANCE
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

30-960.
30-961.
30-962.
30-963.
30-964.
30-965.
30-966.
30-967.
30-968.
30-969.

Definitions.
Demolition permits and diversion of demolition debris.
Submission of Demolition Debris Recycling Plan.
Review of Demolition Debris Recycling Plan.
Submission of Recycling Report.
Review of Recycling Report.
Appeals.
County’s right to monitor and inspect.
Rule making.
Penalties.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.
CHAPTER 30, ENVIRONMENT
Effective date: This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon enactment.
* Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 10/1/08.
Kevin Givens, Director, Environmental Control, Bureau of Administration informed the
committee that the proposed ordinance affects the demolition of residential buildings of four (4)
units or more non-residential buildings with the total square footage of 2,000 square feet or
more. The proposed ordinance will require a recycling plan to be presented to the
Environmental Control Department prior to demolition and concurrent with the demolition permit
application that the Department generates. In addition, the proposed ordinance will require a
$300 fee and within 14 days a recycling report is required at the conclusion of the demolition
project. The proposed ordinance has a number of penalties that apply for not being in
compliance.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved to Accept the
Substitute for Communication No. 296492.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 3
Substitute for Communication No. 296492
DEMOLITION DEBRIS RECYCLING ORDINANCE
Sec. 30-960. Definitions.
For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
Alteration means any change, addition, modification or occupancy.
Applicant means the owner of property who is required to obtain a recycling permit,
pursuant to Section 30-961 and any agent of the owner who applies for said permit on behalf of
the owner.
Department means the Cook County Department of Environmental Control.
Director means the Director of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control.
Demolition means the deconstructing, destroying, razing, tearing down, renovation or
wrecking of any structure.
Demolition Debris means solid waste building materials resulting from demolition such
as, but not limited to bricks, concrete, masonry materials, soil, rock scrap, scrap metal, plaster,
gypsum drywall, plumbing fixtures and piping, non-asbestos insulation, roofing shingles, other
roof coverings, reclaimed or other asphalt pavement, glass, plastics, electrical wiring and
components containing no hazardous substances, corrugated cardboard, piping or metals
incidental to any of those materials, landscape waste and wood, including non-hazardous
painted, treated, coated wood, wood products, wall coverings, and other incidental demolition
debris and reprocessable demolition material generated from demolition activities.
Divert or Diversion means to recycle, reuse or salvage demolition debris for any purpose
other than disposal in a landfill, incineration facility, or alternative daily cover.
Incidental Demolition Debris shall mean uncontaminated dirt, metal, mortar, gypsum,
plasterboard, wood and sand which are derived from a demolition-site and intermingled with
reprocessable material.
Recycle or Recycling means to set aside, handle, package or offer for collection
residential, commercial, or industrial solid waste materials or by-products for the purpose of
being reused or processed and then returned to the economic mainstream as useful products.
Reuse means recovering material for repeated use in the same form. This includes
materials that are reused in the same location as they are generated.
Salvage means the recovering of demolition debris from a building or demolition site for
the purpose of recycling, reuse, or proper storage for future recycling or ruse.
SWC means the Solid Waste Coordinator of the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 4
Sec. 30-961. Demolition permits and diversion of demolition debris.
(a) Statement of Purpose. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Cook
County Demolition Debris Recycling Ordinance. It is declared to be the policy of the Cook
County to promote programs that
(1) Reduce the amount of waste generated at the source; and,
(2) To recover materials, for the purpose of recycling, that would otherwise be discarded
and return
them to the economy. Source-separation recycling is hereby recognized as the
preferred method of recycling in the County.
(b) Initial Application. Before proceeding with the wrecking or tearing down of any
building or other structure subject to the recycling requirements of this Section, a recycling
permit for such wrecking or tearing down shall first be obtained by the owner or his agent from
the Director, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with the wrecking or tearing down of any
building or structure or any structural part of such building or structure unless such permit shall
first have been obtained. Application for such permit shall be made by the owner, or his agent,
to the Director, who shall issue the permit upon such application and the payment of the fee
herein provided. Where the risk of public exposure to asbestos fibers and other dust particles
maybe be dislodged and other materials are to be recycled, no demolition of a structure shall be
initiated unless all safeguards necessary and practical to reduce the emission of dust and
particles are taken. The purpose and intent of this Article is to regulate the receipt, storage,
reprocessing and transport of reprocessable demolition material and to prevent the improper
disposal of demolition debris within the County of Cook. This article shall be entitled “demolition
debris recycling ordinance.” The permit fee shall be $300.00 as set out in Sec. 32-1 and
designated for the Cook County Environment Management Fund as designated in Sec. 30-290.
All demolition projects that are subject to the recycling requirements of this Ordinance shall
divert sixty-percent (60%) or more of the demolition debris generated by this project.
(c) The following types of projects are subjected to the recycling requirements of this
Ordinance:
(1) Demolition of any residential building with four or more units.
(2) Demolition of any non-residential building with total square footage of 2000 or more.
(3) Demolition of a non-residential building, other than projects for which the total square
footage is 2,000 square feet or more.
(d) The permit required under this section is in addition to the permit required pursuant to
Section 30-530 which applies to demolition of buildings containing asbestos.
Sec. 30-962. Submission of Demolition Debris Recycling Plan.
(a) Before an applicant begins a demolition project subject to the recycling requirements
of this Ordinance, that applicant shall submit a Recycling Plan to the Department. The
Recycling Plan shall list:

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 5
(1) The estimated total volume or weight of demolition waste generated by the project.
In estimating the weight of the demolition waste, the applicant shall use the conversion rates
approved by the Director for this purpose.
(2) The means that the applicant proposes to use to divert the demolition waste. In
describing the means of diversion of demolition waste, the applicant shall state the estimated
quantity of each type of debris by material, how each type of debris will be recycled, reused or
salvaged, and which approved facility or facilities will receive the waste. The Director shall
designate approved recycling facilities for diversion.
(3) In the event that the applicant believes that the diversion of all or some materials is
impossible or impracticable, the applicant shall submit written justification with the Recycling
Plan stating the reasons diversion should not be required.
(b)If the applicant wishes to change an approved Recycling Plan prior to final site
inspection, the applicant shall submit amendments to the Recycling Plan for written approval by
the Director.
(c)Upon submission of a Recycling Plan, the applicant shall pay a plan submission fee of
$400300 to the Cook County Treasurer to deposit into the Cook County Environmental
Management Fund.
(d) Within 30 days of completion of a project meeting requirements of this, the Applicant
shall submit documentation as described herein to report compliance with this section and
regulations promulgated hereunder. Documentation shall be in a form prescribed by the Director
of Environmental Control and consist of notarized affidavits from the Applicant and the wastehauler or recycler for the project certifying the extent to which the project complies with this
Section.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, where title to the property is transferred to a bona fide
purchaser after the rehabilitation of the property, if an Applicant is unavailable or refuses to
provide the required documentation, the bona fide purchaser may obtain a certificate of
occupancy by submitting a waiver application supported by an affidavit that the Applicant is
unavailable or refuses to provide the required documentation.
(f) An Applicant who fails to submit the required documentation as provided herein shall
be subject to the full amount of the fines specified in Chapter 30-960 as if no amount of
demolition debris was recycled or reused, and may be subject to suspension or revocation of
the contractor's general contractor's license by the Cook County Board President or the Director
of Environmental Control pursuant to Article V of the Cook County Environmental Code. The
Applicant may file a written request with the Department of Environmental Control for a hearing
to determine the applicability of this section and/or the amount of fine due, which hearing shall
be conducted by the Department of Administrative Hearings.
(g) An Applicant must comply with all reasonable requests for information and
documentation made by the Director of Environmental Control pursuant to an audit to monitor
compliance with this section. Documentation required by this section must be maintained for at
least three years.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 6
(h) Whenever any affiant knowingly and falsely states that a project has met the
requirements of this section, or whenever any contractor knowingly submits an affidavit with
such a false statement, or whenever any person knowingly fails to comply with a reasonable
request made pursuant to an audit under this section, such action will subject the person to a
fine of $2,000 to $5,000, and will subject the person to additional penalties and fines pursuant to
this Ordinance or state law including, but not limited to, the penalties specified in section 30-969
and the revocation or suspension of an affiant's or Applicant’s license. In the case of a
contractor, the executive director of construction and permits may, after a hearing resulting in a
finding that the contractor has committed any of the aforesaid violations, deny the contractor's
right to obtain building or demolition permits for a period of up to one year.
(i) The Director of Environmental Control may promulgate such rules and regulations as
necessary to implement the provisions of this section.
Sec. 30-963. Review of Demolition Debris Recycling Plan.
The SWC shall approve a Recycling Plan or an amendment to a Recycling Plan if it
meets the requirements of this Article. The SWC shall determine, in writing, whether any
diversion or salvage requirement shall be waived in whole or in part on the grounds of
impracticability or impossibility. If the SWC declines to approve a Recycling Plan, he or she
shall document in writing the basis of denial. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Chapter, no demolition permit shall be issued for any demolition project unless the SWC has
approved the Recycling Plan.
Sec. 30-964. Submission of Recycling Report.
(a) Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of a demolition project, subject to the
recycling requirements of this Ordinance, the applicant shall submit to the Department a
Recycling Report that contains the following information:
(1) The actual volume or weight of demolition debris that was diverted by type of
material, diversion method, and approved facilities that received the waste.
(2) The actual volume or weight of demolition debris that was not diverted.
(3) Any barriers encountered that prohibited diversion of demolition debris and any
additional information which demonstrates the applicant made a good faith effort to comply with
the requirements of this Article.
Sec. 30-965. Review of Recycling Report.
The SWC shall review the Recycling Report to determine if sixty-percent (60%) or more
of the demolition debris, measured by weight, was diverted, and shall approve the report if the
report demonstrates that this requirement was met. When the SWC determines that the sixtypercent (60%) or more of the demolition debris was not diverted, he or she shall determine
whether the applicant has made a good faith effort to comply with his requirement. In making
this determination, the SWC may consider information submitted by the applicant, the
availability of markets for the demolition debris that was not diverted, the size and type of
project, the documented efforts of the applicant to divert the demolition debris, and barriers
encountered. If the SWC finds that the applicant has not diverted sixty-percent (60%) or more

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 7
of the demolition debris and has not demonstrated a good faith effort to meet this requirement,
the SWC shall make a written finding that the applicant has violated the provisions of this Article
and state the basis for that finding.
Sec. 30-966. Appeals.
(a) An applicant taking exception to and affected by the SWC’s decision not to approve
a Recycling Plan or a Recycling Report may appeal by submitting a written request for review to
the Director within fourteen days of the date of the SWC’s written decision. The Director or
his/her designee may proscribe that an appeal form to be used by applicants requesting review.
The request for review shall state specifically the claimed error or abuse of discretion.
(b) Within seven days after receipt of the request for review, the Director shall set a date
for a hearing on the request and provide the applicant notice of the hearing date. The hearing
shall be scheduled for a date no later than 35 days after receipt of the request for review. The
applicant shall have an opportunity to be heard at the hearing. Within 14 days after the
conclusion of the hearing, the Director or his/her designee shall issue a decision and serve a
copy of that decision on the applicant by mailing a copy via first class mail.
(c) In deciding the request for review, the Director shall consider the purpose and intent,
as well as the letter of the pertinent provisions of this Article and shall affirm, modify, or reverse
the written decision of the SWC.
(d) Any person taking exception to and affected by any final decision, ruling requirement,
rule, regulation, or order, or failure to act upon request within a reasonable period by the
Director, may take an appeal to the Department of Administrative Hearings. The Department’s
written decisions shall include information about the right to appeal to the Department of
Administrative Hearings. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after receiving notice of
such decision, or within 62 days of the filing of the request for review where the Director has
failed to make a timely decision. The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with the
Director and the Department of Administrative Hearings. The notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof and the relief prayed for. The Director, upon receipt of the notice of appeal,
shall forthwith furnish to the Department of Administrative Hearings all documents relating to the
case.
(e) Within seven days after receipt of the notice of appeal the Department of
Administrative Hearings shall set a date for hearing on the appeal and provide the applicant
notice of the hearing date. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date no later than 35 days after
receipt of the notice of appeal. The applicant shall have an opportunity to be heard. Within 14
days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Department of Administrative Hearings shall issue
a decision and serve a copy of that decision on the applicant by mailing a copy vis first class
mail.
Sec. 30-967. County’s right to monitor and inspect.
(a) The SWC or his/her designee may inspect and monitor all demolition projects to
determine actual levels of diversion and to validate the information provided in the Recycling
Plan and Recycling Report.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 8
(b) An applicant shall retain the receipts or weight tickets for the quantities of materials
reused, salvaged, recycled and land filled as indicated in the Recycling Report for one year after
the demolition is complete.

Sec. 30-968. Rule making.
The Cook County Department of Environmental Control may proscribe reasonable rules,
definitions, and regulations not inconsistent with this Ordinance necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon it by this Ordinance, including, but not limited to, reasonable procedures
relating to the collection of the fines imposed by this Ordinance.
Sec. 30-969. Penalties.
(a)

An applicant violates this Ordinance by:

(1)

Failing to file and obtain approval of a required Recycling Plan before beginning
a demolition project;

(2)
Failing to timely file a required Recycling Report after the conclusion of a
demolition project;
(3)

Failing to maintain records required by this Article;

(4)

Failing to divert at least sixty-percent (60%) of the debris generated by a
demolition project subject to the recycling requirements of this Ordinance;

(5)

Failing to incorporate Best Recycling C&D Recycling Practices pertaining to
fencing and securing the job site, dust control, management of on-site waste,
public way clear of debris and dirt, standing waste, recycling compliance,
demolition debris permit, control of debris, control of illegal dumping activities,
rodent abatement and noise.

(b) The applicant shall be subject to a fine of $1,500.00 for each percentage point the
actual recycling is below the sixty-percent (60%) recycling rate where the applicant:
(1) Fails to divert sixty-percent (60%) or more of the demolition debris generated by a
project that is subject to the recycling requirements of this Ordinance, or
(2) Fails to demonstrate a good faith effort to do so,
(c) Any other violation of this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$1,000.00 and not more than $50,000.00.
(d) Criminal prosecutions pursuant to this Ordinance shall in no way bar the right of
Cook County to institute civil proceedings to recover fines, interest and costs incurred for such
proceedings. Civil penalties and interest assessed pursuant to this Ordinance shall be
computed at the rate provided by the Cook County Uniform Penalty, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 9
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 32
Fees, Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown
below:
Code Section

Description

Fees, Rates,
Charges
(in dollars)

CHAPTER 30, ENVIRONMENT
30-961

Demolition debris recycling permit fee

$300.00

Effective date: This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon enactment.
In closing, Chairman Silvestri emphasized that it would be prudent to defer as substituted the
proposed ordinance to allow continued discussions with the Illinois Environmental Contractors.
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Beavers,
Communication No 296492 as substituted. The motion carried.
299723

moved

to

Defer

COOK COUNTY CLEAN AND GREEN (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting
a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Deborah Sims, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COOK COUNTY CLEAN AND GREEN
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board seeks to protect its employees and preserve
the natural environment; and
WHEREAS, President Barack Obama has made the environment and energy a
priority by introducing a $150 billion plan to create green jobs and energy
independence; and
WHEREAS, Green Seal (GS-37) is the most recognized certifier of green cleaning
products in the United States. GS-37 certified products go through a stringent,
science-based evaluation process to show that they have less impact on the
environment and human health; and
WHEREAS, there is substantial evidence showing that GS-37 approved cleaning
supplies are not harmful to one’s health and do not release toxic fumes as do
conventional chemical products; and
WHEREAS, conventional cleaning products and GS-37 certified cleaning products
are comparably priced; and

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 10
WHEREAS, GS-37 certified products are readily available to Cook County
suppliers, vendors and anyone who wishes to purchase them; and
WHEREAS, pre-measured and concentrated cleaning products offer substantial
help to the environment, reduce shipping costs, increase available storage space,
prevent waste and increase accountability among Cook County Board employees.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners seeks to implement a Green Cleaning Supply Ordinance that
requires that all cleaning products used in Cook County facilities, purchased by
Cook County and contracted vendors be Green Seal (GS-37) certified in order to
help the environment and preserve the health of Cook County employees and
residents. Pre-measured and concentrated cleaning products will be included in all
bids for Cook County Board cleaning products.
* Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 4/2/09.
** Deferred on 7/21/09.
*** Deferred on 5/4/10.
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved the Approval of
Communication No 299723. The motion carried.
307186

AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 30 ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE II ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT, DIVISION 7
ENFORCEMENT, SUBDIVISION I IN GENERAL, SECTION 30-213 (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Transmitting a Communication, dated May 17,
2010, by Kevin N. Givens, Director Department of Environmental Control:
respectfully request approval of the following Proposed Ordinance Amendment.
AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 30 ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE II ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT, DIVISION 7
ENFORCEMENT, SUBDIVISION I IN GENERAL, SECTION 30-213 (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30
Environment, Article II Administration and Enforcement, Division 7 Enforcement,
Subdivision I In General, Section 30-213 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 30-213. Violations and penalty.
* Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 6/15/10.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 11
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 307186. The motion carried.
307187

COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 30 ENVIRONMENT, SECTION 30-215
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Transmitting a Communication dated May 17, 2010,
by Kevin N. Givens, Director Department of Environmental Control:
respectfully request approval of the following Proposed Ordinance.
COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 30 ENVIRONMENT, SECTION 30-215
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30
Environment, Section 30-215 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as
follows:
Sec. 30-215. Public nuisance cessation and abatement.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect upon adoption.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 6/15/10.

Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved the Approval of
Communication No 307187. The motion carried.

307204

COOK COUNTY FACILITY GREEN TEAMS (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Gregg Goslin, County
Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COOK COUNTY FACILITY GREEN TEAMS
WHEREAS, as awareness of the environmental impact of government operations
has increased, Cook County has endeavored to develop laws and policies that
attempt to mitigate these impacts; and
WHEREAS, proposals to green county operations not only help protect and
improve the environment, but can also result in cost-savings to taxpayers through
reductions in energy usage and decreases in unnecessary waste; and
WHEREAS, while county-wide ordinances and policies provide a useful framework
for environmental practices at the county, it is difficult to anticipate and address the
potential obstacles involved in implementation uniformly throughout county

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 12
facilities; and
WHEREAS, in order to realize the full potential of energy conservation and waste
reduction, it is necessary to use a more ground-level approach to promote
environmental operations and ensure a greener Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County’s continued efforts to improve sustainability in county
operations and reduce environmental impacts will be aided by facility-level
organization to encourage environmental efforts and provide a framework for future
planning and implementation of green initiatives.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby direct the Chief Administrative Officer to develop and
establish interdepartmental teams of County staff members, “Green Teams,” for
each County facility to advance, coordinate and implement environmental and
sustainable practices within these facilities; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Teams will be tasked with:
1. Reviewing facility operations for compliance with current county-wide
environmental policies;
2. Compiling a benchmark of current outputs such as recycling volume;
3. Developing facility-wide policies and initiatives to improve sustainability
and reduce environmental impacts, including, but not limited to, reducing
paper usage and increasing recycling volume; and
4. Creating a sense of commitment and common understanding of green
actions among all facility employees.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Teams shall submit quarterly reports
through the Department of Environmental Control for presentation to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners with details of their activities and facility progress
in reducing environmental impacts; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the operation of facility Green Teams shall
initiate within 60 days of the effective date of this Resolution.
* Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 6/15/10.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 307204. The motion carried.

Chairman Silvestri asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1. George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen
2. Daniel Day – Executive Director, Illinois Environmental Contractors
3. Mary Kay Managhan – ASA Chicago

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 13, 2010
PAGE 13

Commissioner Beavers moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Peraica. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 296492
Communication Number 299723
Communication Number 307186
Communication Number 307187
Communication Number 307204

Deferred As Substituted
Approved
Approved
Approved
Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Environmental Control

____________________________
Peter N. Silvestri, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

** The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 