 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation

Tuesday, December 12, 2017 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Tobolski (4)
Absent: Chairman Schneider (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice-Chairman Moody asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Speakers.
Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved that the Workers?

Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending
Workers? Compensation. The motion carried.

Commissioner obolski, seconded. by Commissioner Goslin, moved Approval of the cases -

over $25,000.00. The motion carried.

18-0979
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1 1/15/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Deer, to approve
18-0979. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Goslin and Tobolski (4)

Absent: Chairman Schneider (1)



1. SETTLEMENTS
County Government

MICHAEL
17 we 07728

BAUMAN. 
07 WC 40302

ROSS, DAVID R.
16 WC 02585

SCHENK. MARIANNE
16 WC 32594

Petitioner was unloading a ride away lawn mower from a ?at bed
trailer. The tractor was chained down and when the petitioner was
pulling the chain binder used to secure the mower he injured his
left elbow. -

Commissioner Tobolski seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner suffered an injury to her right hand, right shoulder
and left thumb when she slipped and fell due to liquid on the floor.

Commissioner Tobolski seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner stepped in a pothole injuring his right ankle.

Commissioner Tobolski seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner was vacuuming when she tripped on the back cord and
fell on her right hip.

Commissioner Tobolski seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Page 2 of 3

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

 

 

Ayes: Vice-Chairman Moody, Commissioners Deer, Gosiin and Tobolski (4)
Absent: Chairman Schneider (1)
Respectfully submittedVice-Chairman Secretary



video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 3 of 3

 

