STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on March 10, 2015
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board; Albert Washington, Member of the
Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD February 10, 2015

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the February 10, 2015, meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Brennwald seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report as well
as the fiscal, legislative and mediation reports. She presented the reports and summarized their highlights. The Board
examined the reports and discussed them.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-14-197
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 117/ Village of Steger

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case and then asked
Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel
Hamburg-Gal stated that on January 16, 2015, Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Kelly Coyle issued a Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO) dismissing the allegations that the Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the
Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act). She then discussed the Charging Party’s exceptions. After her discussion,
Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board affirm the ALJ’s RDO. After discussion,
Member Washington moved to accept the RDO. Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-14-081
Associated Firefighters of Matteson, Local 3086, IAFF/ Village of Matteson
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-UC-15-074
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 51/ City of Bushnell
General Counsel Post called the case, noted that ALJ Sarah R. Kerley issued a RDO with no exceptions filed and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-14-107
James Young/ Village of University Park
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case and then asked
Counsel Kelly Coyle to present and discuss the case to the Board. Counsel Coyle stated the Executive Director issued

 a partial dismissal on December 1, 2014, filed by the Charging Party against the Respondent alleging
violation of Sections 10(a)(2) and (1) of the Act. She then discussed the appeal that was filed by the Charging
Party. After her discussion she recommended that the Board reverse the Executive Director’s partial dismissal
and remand the charge for further investigation. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to affirm the
Executive Director’s partial dismissal. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-15-056
Policemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association, Unit #5/ City of Springfield
General Counsel Post called the case and then asked Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss
the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that the Executive Director dismissed the
charge filed by the Charging Party which alleged that the Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act.
After her discussion, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board affirm the Executive
Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to affirm the dismissal. Member Brennwald
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
6.
Case No. S-CA-15-058
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ County of Kankakee
and Kankakee County State’s Attorney
General Counsel Post called the case. He stated that an Executive Director partial dismissal issued on January 21,
2015, dismissing allegations that Respondents violated Section 10(a)(4) of the Act. He then discussed the
Charging Party’s appeal. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the
Executive Director’s partial dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the Executive
Director’s partial dismissal. Chairman Hartnett seconded the motion, and the Board passed it. Member Brennwald
dissented in part and concurred in part.
7.
Case No. S-RD-15-003
Rhonda Powell/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ County
of Kankakee and Kankakee County State’s Attorney
General Counsel Post called the case. He stated that an Executive Director Order issued on January 21, 2015,
denying the request of Incumbent to block a decertification election and directing an election. He then discussed
the Incumbent’s appeal and the Petitioner’s response. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended
that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s order. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the
Executive Director’s order. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 14th day of April, 2015.

2

 