Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: March 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Juan M. Calderon
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Victor M. Gonzalez
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: March 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:03 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: February 21, 2018 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update:
Commissioner Morita mentioned that she looks forward to today’s presentation given by the
board of health members and reported in the past weeks; she had an opportunity to attend three
out-of-state meetings:
• Big Cities Healthy Coalition Meeting, where leaders of America’s largest urban health
departments exchange ideas and address health issues unique. At this meeting the areas of
priority: opioids, violence and STDs.
• Trust for America’s Health (TFAH), in partnership with The California Endowment (TCE)
meeting, attendees learned from programs like TCE’s Building Healthy Communities
initiative that promote health equity and develop policies to continue advancing health equity
in diverse arenas.
• Airport Cooperative Research Program (ACRP) meeting, a forum on airport roles in reducing
communicable diseases transmission.
In addition, Commissioner Morita reported the following:
World TB Day.
Today, CDPH is partnering with the Illinois Department of Public Health and the University of
Illinois at Chicago College of Nursing to host a World Tuberculosis Day event. The conference
invites Chicago’s healthcare providers to engage in presentations from national and local TB
experts on current best practice guidelines for TB prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Curbing Teen Drinking.
On March 12, Preventing Alcohol Abuse in Chicago Teens (PAACT) announced the release of
the Voices of Youth in Chicago Education report, Open Bottles, Broken Policies, a youth-led
Participatory Action Research project conducted to better understand the causes of underage
drinking and inform policy recommendations for Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to respond to
the root causes of the problem. CDPH participated in a press conference on improving school
policy responses to underage drinking.
Illinois Sodium Reduction Week.
Last week, CDPH joined forces with the American Heart Association and public health agencies
across the state to raise awareness of the importance of lowering dietary sodium. CDPH took part
in the “Break Up with Salt” campaign, which involved a number of digital events including a
healthy cooking demo, Twitter chat and video campaign.
National Women & Girls HIV/AIDS Awareness Day.
Sistas Uplifting Sistas sponsored a one-day conference, “The Time is Now,” which focused on
identifying the combined impact of racism, trauma, and inequalities on the health outcomes of
women and girls. On March 14th, conference participants gathered information, tools, support,
and affirmation to confront systemic barriers and to consider solutions and strategies to improve
HIV programming specifically for women and girls, inclusive of transgender persons.
Community Events Calendar.
Last week, the Community Events Calendar went live. This calendar seeks to further direct
engagement with city residents and CDPH staff by showing CDPH events, speaking

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: March 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
engagements, public meetings and partner programs we support. These tools that will help
residents connect with programs and services they can use to improve their own health and wellbeing. If you know of an event that should be listed please reach out to Angelica Alfaro.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez remarked, today is the first day of spring and
welcomed students and all meeting attendees. She requested for students to introduce
themselves and provided them with an overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s
advisory role in matters of infectious disease and health issues affecting public health.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava provided the following policy updates:
National
• Obamacare. Many insurers are finally turning a profit on Obamacare, despite the repeal
threats, the small window for signing up, removal of a subsidy program, and a number of
steps the Trump administration has taken to undermine the law. However, a big reason for
the improved profitability is premium increases. Those premiums could escalate in 2019
when the elimination of the mandate goes into effect. So the future of the Affordable Care
Act remains dependent on what our lawmakers do or fail to do in Washington.
• Nicotine. The FDA is proposing a rule to lower the amount of nicotine in cigarettes to make
them less addictive. Smoking causes 480,000 premature deaths annually in the United States,
and reducing the addictiveness of the products could cut that number significantly. Some are
raising questions about the black market and whether people would smoke more cigarettes to
compensate.
• Healthy kids’ meals. After McDonald’s announced it would cut the sugar and calories in its
Happy Meals, 51% of parents in a poll said it makes them more likely to order a Happy Meal
for their kids—and among those who never order one, 34% are now more likely.
• Opioid Plan. President Trump has outlined a three-pronged approach to the opioid crisis:
1) Reducing the demand and over prescription of opioids. This includes an advertising campaign
to tell people not to use opioids illegally, R&D for preventing addiction and decreasing the need
for prescription opioids, aiming to cut opioid prescribing by a third with a national Prescription
Management Program and other federal leverage points.
2) Cutting off the supply of illegal drugs. This includes secure borders (which may mean a wall),
using tech and data to flag risky shipments, expand international cooperation with China and
Mexico for supplying heroin, prosecute and sue companies and doctors as needed, crack down
on online sales, increase penalties for drug dealing (including more seeking of the death penalty
against dealers), making it easier to give a drug dealer a mandatory minimum, and ending
sanctuary cities.
3) Boosting access to treatment and recovery services. This includes supplying first responders
with naloxone, improving overdose tracking, expanding access to medication-assisted treatment,
change the law keeping Medicaid from reimbursing residential treatment at facilities with more
than 16 beds, link people in the criminal justice system to treatment, screen federal inmates for
addiction and place those who need it in reentry centers, and scaling up drug courts and
supervised release as an alternative to incarceration.
City
• Opioids. CDPH and Mayor Emanuel announced a $225,000 investment in community health
workers to provide addiction education and naloxone to residents of the south and west sides
while linking people with opioid use disorders to treatment. The funding went to the Chicago

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: March 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

•

•

Recovery Alliance, and they in turn are working with Men and Women in Prison Ministries
and Heartland Human Care Services to hire and train community members with lived
experiences with opioid addiction as peer health workers.
Opioid lawsuit. The City of Chicago has filed a lawsuit against three pharmaceutical
distributors alleging they contributed to the opioid epidemic and violated state and federal
laws by delivering unreasonable quantities of opioids. The three wholesale distributors are
McKesson, Cardinal Health, and AmerisourceBergen, which together account for 90% of all
revenues from prescription drug distribution in the country. These companies failed to report
large orders that went against normal patterns and suggested the opioids were being misused.
This lawsuit builds on the City’s lawsuit against manufacturers that engaged in deceptive
marketing practices with prescribers.
Manganese. Mayor Emanuel introduced an ordinance on February 28 to reduce on
Chicagoans’ exposure to manganese. The proposed law will ban new manganese-bearing
material operations and prevent existing facilities from expanding. These operations include
crushing, screening, transporting, storing or handling of the material. Manganese is a
naturally occurring element used in steel production. While very small amounts can be found
naturally in soil, coal and other resources throughout the U.S., direct, ongoing inhalation of
large amounts of manganese can be hazardous, particularly to the respiratory tract in the
brain, with potential issues involving hallucinations, forgetfulness, headaches, nerve damage,
or even Parkinson’s or schizophrenia. In addition, manganese is a quality of life and
economic development issue, not just a health issue. When excessive dust blows offsite from
manufacturing plants, it keeps people indoors and discourages restaurants and other
businesses from locating on the Southeast Side.

Presentation: Presentation: “Connecting with the Chicago Board of Health Members”, Carolyn
C. Lopez, M.D., Joseph B. Starshak and Melanie Dreher R.N., Ph.D.
New Business: Juan Calderon, Board of Health member announced, he will be going to Puerto
Rico with a delegation and will report back at the next BOH meeting.
Old Business: Dr. Lopez will report back on the BOH retreat.
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:27 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: April 18, 2018, 9:00 a.m.

 