Board of Commissioners of Cook County

118 North Clark Street
Chicago, IL

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Wednesday, September 13, 2017

11:00 AM
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
LUIS ARROYO, JR.
RICHARD R. BOYKIN
JERRY BUTLER
JOHN P. DALEY
DENNIS DEER
JOHN A. FRITCHEY
BRIDGET GAINER
JESUS G. GARCIA
GREGG GOSLIN

EDWARD M. MOODY
STANLEY MOORE
SEAN M. MORRISON
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Board met pursuant to law and pursuant to Resolution 17-0615.
OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the chair.

CALL TO ORDER

At 11:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.

QUORUM

County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.

ATTENDANCE

Present:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)

Absent:

None (0)

INVOCATION
Dr. Bernard J. Sutton, Pastor of the Acme Missionary Baptist Church, Chicago, Illinois, gave the
invocation.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

2

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PRESIDENT
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and
special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time
to deliver testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board
Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

Mary Elsner, Illinois Chapter of American Academy of Pediatrics
Dr. William Martin, Srewolf & Nitram Foundation HEARTS
Audrey Wheeler, Debra Ann Porter Center
Kimberly Johnson, Debra Ann Porter Center
Elissa Bassler, Illinois Public Health Institiute
Allan Mellis, Concerned Citizen
Ariel Thomas, Metropolitan Chicago Breast Cncer Task Force
Tim Banks, Culvers
Brenda Parker, Concerned Citizen
Pastor Reshorna Fitzpatrick, Stone Temple Church
Minister Sandra Robinson on behalf of Pastor Angela Walker, God’s House of Divine Revelations
The Honorable Mary Werner, Mayor of the Village of Worth
Jim Garrett, Chicago Southland Convention and Visitor Bureau
Evangelist Geraldine White on behalf of Pastor Donald Smith, Holy Jerusalem Church
Pastor Sheila Higgland on behalf of Pastor Kellie Smith, Good News Community Church
Ben Gould, Reading a statement from Umoja Student Development Corporation
Ester Scamorilla on behalf of Ali Adame, Reading a statement from Chicago Hispanic Health Coalition
& Sara Parvinian, M.D.
George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
Janna Simon, Reading a statement from Illinois Public Health Association and Center for Science in
the Public Interest
Kingdom Rock, Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth NFP
Mark F. Armstrong, Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth NFP
Bertha Morin, Mujeres Latinas en Accion
Dr. Jifunza Wright Carter, Black Oaks Center
Clare Crosh, Pediatric Resident, Advocate Children’s Hospital
Donald Zeigler, Evanston Helath Advisory Council
Marjorie Fujara, Concerned Citizen
Suffrin Jimenez and Luigi Tenuta, Valli Produce
Evonda Thomas-Smith, Evanston Health and Human Services
Armando Ortiz, SEIU Local 73
Daniel Hertz, Center for Tax and Budget Accountability
Linda Furlano, Illinois Automatic Merchandising Council
EvAngel Mama Dee YHWHnewBN
Carol Bollacker, Boz Hot Dogs
Martin Sandoval, La Chiquita Food Market
3

 Board of Commissioners

35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Arthur Willis on behalf of Kevin Ochalla, AFSCME Local 3315
Melissa Delgado, AFSCME Local 3315
Melinda Barrett, AFSCME Local 2060
Teesha Coleman, AFSCME Local 3696
Andre Smith, Chicago Against Violence
The Honorable Keith Pekau, Mayor of Orland Park
Carl Lewis, Concerned Citizen
Mary Collins, Concerned Citizen
Betty Silas, AFSCME Council 31
Lloyd Marshall, AFSCME Local 3477
Andrew Nelson, Department of Public Health
PRESIDENT
17-4588
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT, DEBORAH SIMS,
LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY,
DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

REQUESTING CONSENT OF THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO
REAPPOINT THE INCUMBENT AS SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS AND FOR THE
REAPPOINTMENT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS
WHEREAS, a vacancy exists in the office of Superintendent of Highways, said vacancy being caused by
the expiration of the six (6) year term of office; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with 605-ILCS 5/5-201 of the Illinois compiled statutes, the County Board
must request the consent of the Illinois Department of Transportation before reappointment of the present
incumbent can be made.

4

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the County Board of Cook County, Illinois does hereby
request the consent of the Illinois Department of Transportation to the reappointment of John Yonan, P.E.
as Superintendent of Highways; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board, subject to receiving consent from the
Illinois Department of Transportations does reappoint John Yonan, P.E. as Superintendent of Highways for
a term of six (6) years effective January 18, 2018; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board that the County Clerk is hereby directed to
transmit two (2) certified copies of this Resolution to the Illinois Department of Transportation through its
District Engineer’s Office in Schaumburg, Illinois.
Approved and adopted this 13th of September 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
______________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.

17-4693
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners, GREGG
GOSLIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Judith Avery
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Mission Brook Sanitary District Board of Trustees
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/1/2020 or until a successor is duly appointed and qualified
Summary:

N/A
______________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
5

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Reappointment be approved. The motion carried.

17-5175
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and GREGG GOSLIN, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Carmen Dutack
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Glenview Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 9/10/2020 or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A
______________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Reappointment be approved. The motion carried.

17-5176

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and EDWARD M. MOODY, Cook County Board
Of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s):
Position:

Lynette Stokes-Wilson Ed.D

Trustee

Department/Board/Commission: South Cook County Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: Immediate
6

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Expiration date: 10/11/2021 or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
______________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Appointment be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee. The
motion carried.

17-5178
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ammar Rizki
Position: Chief Financial Officer
Department/Board/Commission: Bureau of Finance
Effective date: Immediately
Expiration date: The appointment will remain in effect until reappointed or successor is appointed
Summary: I hereby appoint Ammar Rizki to the position of Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance.
Ammar has been a part of the County and the Department of Revenue since 2010. During his tenure, he
implemented a multi-year plan to ensure that the County’s debt and pension obligations do not become a
burden on County operations. Additionally, he has managed the functional implementation of the
Enterprise Resource Planning System to modernize the County’s financial systems.
Rizki previously served as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and stepped in as Acting Chief Financial
Officer in June of 2017 after the departure of Ivan Samstein. Rizki has a MBA from University of
Chicago and BA in Finance from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
______________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Appointment be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee. The
motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS
7

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4704
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, RICHARD R. BOYKIN,
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO REPEAL THE SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX
WHEREAS, the Sweetened Beverage Tax Ordinance was approved and adopted on November 10, 2016;
and
WHEREAS, it has becoming increasingly clear that this is a regressive tax which will cause immediate
and irrevocable hardship to businesses in Cook County and put those businesses in competitive
disadvantage to businesses nearby; and
WHEREAS, the U. S. Census Bureau has reported that from July of 2015 to June of 2016 Cook County
has lost more population than any other county in the entire United States; and
WHEREAS, it has been widely reported that one of the main reasons businesses and residents are moving
out of Cook County is excessive tax regulations; and
WHEREAS, a lawsuit has been filed questioning the constitutionality of this ordinance and Cook County
may again be forced to spend huge sums to defend a potentially unconstitutional ordinance; and
WHEREAS, Crain’s has reported that a recent poll conducted by a credible organization shows that 87
percent of Cook County residents are not in favor of the sweetened beverage tax; and
WHEREAS, although this regressive tax has only been in effect a short time, it appears that many
consumers are crossing county borders to purchase items being taxed and are also buying others items
leading to an ultimate loss of tax dollars to our neighboring counties and states; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the citizens and businesses of Cook County that this regressive tax
ordinance be repealed;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioner that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article XXII Sweetened Beverage Tax, Sections 74-850 through 74-859 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE XXII. - SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX[
Sec. 74-850. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Sweetened Beverage Tax
Ordinance."
8

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Sec. 74-851. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Beverage for medical use means:
(1) A beverage suitable for human consumption and manufactured for use as an oral nutritional therapy
for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from food or beverages, or for use
as an oral rehydration electrolyte solution formulated to prevent or treat dehydration due to illness;
and
(2) Medically necessary foods, as defined in the federal Orphan Drug Act, 21 U.S.C. 360ee(b)(3), as
amended.
Beverage for medical use shall not include drinks commonly referred to as "sports drinks" or any other
common names that are derivations thereof.
Beverage dispensing machine means a fountain drink machine, a device that combines syrup or syrup
concentrate and carbon dioxide with chilled and purified water, or other refrigerated beverage machine used
to serve non-carbonated or carbonated drinks.
Bottle means any sealed container regardless of size or shape, including, but not limited to, those made
of glass, metal, paper, plastic, or any other material or combination of materials, including cans.
Bottled sweetened beverage means any sweetened beverage contained in a bottle that is ready for
consumption without further processing such as, but not limited to, dilution or carbonation.
Caloric sweetener means any caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup, or powder
that includes sucrose, fructose, glucose and/or other sugars, suitable for human consumption which adds
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.
County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue.
Distributor means any person, including manufacturers and wholesale dealers, who receives, stores,
manufactures, bottles or distributes bottled sweetened beverages, syrup or powder, for sale to retailers doing
business in Cook County, whether or not that person also sells such products to purchasers.
Milk means natural liquid milk regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, natural milk
concentrate, whether or not reconstituted, regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, or
9

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

dehydrated natural milk, whether or not reconstituted and regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat
content.
Natural fruit juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruits or the liquid resulting
from the dilution of dehydrated natural fruit juice.
Natural vegetable juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of vegetables or the liquid
resulting from the dilution of dehydrated natural vegetable juice.
Non-alcoholic beverage means any beverage that contains less than one-half of one percent alcohol
per volume.
Non-caloric sweetener means any non-caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup or
powder that includes aspartame, saccharin, stevia and/or sucralose, suitable for human consumption which
does not add calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.
Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Powder means any solid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an
ingredient, intended to be used in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage by combining the
powder with one or more other ingredients by hand or in a beverage dispensing machine.
Purchaser means any person who purchases in a retail sale.
Retail sale means any sale to a person for use or consumption, and not for resale.
Retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling sweetened beverages at retail in the
County.
Sale, resale and selling means any transfer of ownership or possession or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for valuable consideration.
Sweetened beverage means any non-alcoholic beverage, carbonated or non-carbonated, which is
intended for human consumption and contains any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener, and is
available for sale in a bottle or produced for sale through the use of syrup and/or powder. Sweetened
beverage does not include:
(1) Beverages consisting of 100 percent natural fruit or vegetable juice;
(2) Beverages in which milk, or soy, rice, or similar milk substitute, makes up more than 50 percent
of the beverage or is the first listed ingredient on the label of the beverage;
10

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(3) Beverages to which a purchaser can add, or can request that a retailer add, caloric sweetener or
non-caloric sweetener;
(4) Infant formula;
(5) Beverages for medical use;
(6) Any liquid sold as a therapeutic nutritional meal replacement or for use for weight reduction as a
meal replacement; or
(7) Any syrup or powder that the purchaser himself or herself combines with other ingredients to create
a beverage.
Syrup means a liquid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an
ingredient, intended to be used, or actually used, in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage
by combining the syrup with one or more other ingredients using a beverage dispensing machine.
Sec. 74-852. - Tax imposed and liability for payment.
(a) Effective July 1, 2017, a tax at the rate of $0.01 per ounce is hereby imposed on the retail sale of
all sweetened beverages in Cook County.
(b) The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this Article is to be borne
by the purchaser of the sweetened beverage. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to impose a tax upon
the occupation of distributors or retailers.
(c) It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any distributor or retailer to fail to include the tax
imposed in this Article in the sale price of the sweetened beverage, syrup and/or powder or to otherwise
absorb the tax, unless otherwise required by law. The tax levied in this Article shall be in addition to any
other taxes.
(d) Except as provisions are made in this Article for the collection of the tax levied in this Article
upon the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder in the possession of retailers on the effective date of
the ordinance from which this Article is derived, the tax levied in this Article shall be collected by each
distributor when it sells sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder to a retailer or a purchaser in Cook
County.
(e) Any distributor of bottled sweetened beverages and any distributor of syrup and/or powder used
to produce a sweetened beverage shall collect the tax levied by this Article from any retailer to whom the
sale of bottled sweetened beverages or syrup and/or powder used to produce a sweetened beverage is made
and shall remit the tax to the Department.
(1) The tax on bottled sweetened beverages shall be based upon the number of whole ounces stated on
the sealed container.
11

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(2) For purposes of the distributor's collection of the tax from its sale to a retailer of syrup and/or
powder used to produce a sweetened beverage, the tax shall be $0.01 per ounce of sweetened
beverage produced from that syrup or powder. For such sales, the tax shall be calculated based
upon the largest volume, in whole ounces, of sweetened beverage that could be produced from the
syrup or powder, with a reduction of five percent of the calculated tax to account for spillage and
product preparation at the retail level. The largest volume shall be determined based on the
manufacturer's instructions.
(3) Any retailer shall in turn then collect the tax from the purchaser of sweetened beverage.
(4) Should a distributor sell sweetened beverages directly to a purchaser, the distributor shall collect
the tax from that purchaser.
(5) The tax shall be paid to the person required to collect it as trustee for and on behalf of the County.
(f) On or before August 20, 2017, every retailer of sweetened beverages doing business in the County
shall file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn tax return reporting the inventory of
sweetened beverages, as well as the inventory of syrup and/or powder used to produce sweetened beverage,
on which the sweetened beverage tax was not previously paid, in its possession or control on June 30, 2017.
With said tax return, the retailer shall remit to the Cook County Collector the taxes due with respect to all
sweetened beverages and syrup and/or powder used to produce sweetened beverage on which the sweetened
beverage tax was not previously paid that was in the retailers' possession on June 30, 2017. The retailer
shall in turn collect the tax from its purchasers. For the purpose of determining the amount of tax due on
the amount of product in a retailer's possession or control on June 30, 2017, the following shall apply:
(1) The tax on bottled sweetened beverages shall be based upon the number of whole ounces stated on
the sealed container.
(2) The tax for syrup and/or powder used to produce a sweetened beverage shall be $0.01 per ounce
of sweetened beverage produced from that syrup or powder, calculated based upon the largest
volume, in whole ounces, of sweetened beverage that could be produced from the syrup or powder,
with a reduction of five percent of the calculated tax to account for spillage and product
preparation at the retail level. The largest volume shall be determined based on the manufacturer's
instructions.
Sec. 74-853. - Registration and remittance.
(a) Any distributor who engages in the business of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder
in the County must register with the Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the
Department, within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance, and after such 30 days has passed,
prior to engaging in the business of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder for resale, use or
consumption in the County. Failure to register pursuant to this section shall be considered a violation of
this Article.
12

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(b) Distributors shall file each month with the Department a tax return reflecting sales of sweetened
beverages, syrup and/or powder, in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department, on or before
the 20th day of the month following the month for which the return is due. Each tax return shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The
remittance shall be made payable to the County Collector. Registered distributors must file a monthly return
even if no tax is due. Failure to file a monthly return and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation
of this Article.
(c) Any retailer who acquires sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder from an unregistered
distributor or on which tax was not previously paid, must file a tax return, in such form as prescribed and
furnished by the Department, on or before the 20th day of the month following the month in which the
sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder were acquired. Each return must be accompanied by a
remittance of the appropriate amount of applicable tax. The remittance shall be made payable to the County
Collector. Failure of a retailer to file a return and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation of this
Article.
(d) The Department, in its discretion, may require that registration be completed, tax returns be
submitted, and payments be made electronically.
Sec. 74-854. - Tax-free sales.
(a) Registered distributors shall not pay or collect a tax with respect to sweetened beverages, syrup
and/or powder which are otherwise subject to the tax when the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder
are being sold to the following:
(1) Another registered distributor; or
(2) An unregistered distributor, a retailer or a purchaser when the selling distributor, or its agent,
delivers the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder to a location outside of Cook County.
(b) The tax imposed by this Article shall not apply to purchases of sweetened beverages by a
passenger on an interstate carrier; nor shall this tax apply to purchases that are specifically exempt from
taxation under Federal law. It shall be presumed that all sales of sweetened beverages from distributors or
retailers are subject to the tax under this Article until the contrary is established.
Sec. 74-855. - Tax in addition to other taxes.
The tax imposed by this Article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of the
United States, the State, or by any unit of local government.
Sec. 74-856. - Books and records.

13

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(a) Every distributor and every retailer shall keep accurate books and records showing all transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability, exemption or defense to liability.
(b) Books and records and other documents shall be kept, by distributors and retailers, for the taxable
time period as listed in the statute of limitations section of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III, Section 34-60 et seq. All books and records shall be kept in
the English language and, at all times during business hours, shall be subject to and available for inspection
or copying by the Department. Failure to keep books and records pursuant to this section shall be considered
a violation of this Article.
Sec. 74-857. - Violation; penalties.
Any person determined to have violated this Article, as amended, by failing to file a return and/or
failing to remit taxes shall be subject to the penalties listed in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest
and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III. Any person determined to have violated any other
provisions of this Article shall be subject to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00
for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed
each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist
after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any person to knowingly furnish
false or inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no
way bar the right of the County to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty
due and owing as well as costs incurred for such proceeding.
Sec. 74-858. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or whenever this Article is silent, the
provisions of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article
III shall apply and supplement this Article.
Sec. 74-859. - Rulemaking.
The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall take into account
existing practices of sweetened beverage distributors and retailers for collection and remittance of the tax
herein levied. Such rules shall include but not be limited to tax deductions/credits for breakage, spoilage,
spillage, sweetened beverage expiration, sweetened beverage destruction and tax free sales.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately.
_______________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Proposed
Ordinance be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
14

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4717
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and SEAN M. MORRISON,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT REQUIRING BOARD APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN CIVIL SUITS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Sweetened Beverage Tax went into effect on August 2, 2017 following a
legal challenge that took a month to resolve, and
WHEREAS, the temporary restraining order cost the County about $17 million, and
WHEREAS, Cook County filed suit against the Illinois Retail Merchants Association seeking damages in
that amount, and
WHEREAS, this retribution for a valid lawsuit is unacceptable, and
WHEREAS, no citizen or group should face such dire consequences for filing a valid lawsuit against a
government that implements any sort of tax, and
WHEREAS, the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office is already overly burdened, as assistant state’s
attorneys prosecuting misdemeanors have 5,700 cases rather than the nationally recommended 400, and
WHEREAS, the County Board has the fiduciary duty to its citizens to spend County resources in a fair,
reasonable manner rather than as a tool for retribution.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-103 Interpretation,
force and effect of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-103. - Interpretation, force and effect.
(a) Applicability. The meetings and actions of the Board, including all of its committees, shall be
governed by this division.
(b) Effect of State law. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this division, this division
supersedes all provisions of Illinois statute to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency, except for statutes
that, by their terms, specifically limit home rule units pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(g) or 6(h) of the
1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois.

15

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(c) Effective date. This division shall be in full force and effect upon adoption, and shall remain in full
force and effect except as amended in accordance herewith, or until superseded by new rules adopted as
part of the organization of a newly constituted Board at the commencement of a term.
(d) Interpretation. This division shall be interpreted and applied to foster the goals and purposes set
forth in Section 2-101. This division is to be construed in accordance with the customary American usage
and meaning of parliamentary terms and expressions and the plain meaning of the ordinary words appearing
herein. In case of ambiguous application, this division shall be applied in a manner that fosters openness,
accountability and fairness in the operation of the Board.
(e) Adoption of rules. At the commencement of a term, the Board may adopt new rules of organization
and procedure by ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety and repealing these rules. Such
ordinance must be adopted by a majority of those elected. Rules so adopted shall supersede these rules.
(f) Rules for committee meetings. The rules of procedure for all committee, subcommittee and special
committee meetings shall be the same as for Board meetings, except that committees composed of less than
the entire Board shall require only a majority of the committee members for a quorum.
(g) Amendment or suspension of rules. Any provision of this division may be temporarily suspended
by majority vote, upon motion of any Commissioner specifying the rule to be suspended.
(h) Specific Rules for Finance Subcommittee on Litigation. The Cook County State's Attorney's Office
shall, for each settlement of $500,000.00 and above, submit the following:
1. Any legal conflicts of interest of any party to the suit, as well as opposing counsel, of which the
State's Attorney's Office is aware at the time it makes its settlement recommendation;
2. The current employment status of employee stakeholders named in the proposed settlement;
3. Any significant tangible evidence (i.e., photos, videos) that the State's Attorney's Office believes is
relevant to its recommendation; and
4. At the end of each fiscal year:
a. the State's Attorney's Office will provide an annual summary of all settlements, case
dispositions and invoices approved in excess of $500,000.00 entered into during that fiscal
year; and
b. the County offices whose employees are named defendants in any such cases shall report on
the employment statues of such employees and any resulting disciplinary actions.
Further, on or before the submittal deadline for the Subcommittee meeting at which a proposed
settlement of $500,000.00 or more will be discussed, the State's Attorney's Office shall provide the Director
16

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

of the Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics ("Director") with the following information
for each such settlement:
1. The identity of all counsel appearing in the case and their respective firms;
2. A copy of the compliant, with the case numbers;
3. The name of each party and, for individual County defendants, their employer; and
4. The Assistant State's Attorney(s) responsible for the case.
At such Subcommittee meeting, the Director shall report to the Subcommittee any potential issues
arising under the Cook County Ethics Ordinance presented by the proposed settlement based on the
information provided to the Director by the State's Attorney's Office.
Further, the Cook County State’s Attorney shall notify by letter the members of the Finance
Subcommittee on Litigation prior to taking action to file a civil lawsuit or otherwise commence legal action
in a civil venue against another party, where said lawsuit or legal action seeks damages in excess of
$100,000.00. Once notification of the Subcommittee Chairman has been accomplished, the Cook County
State's Attorney shall not file a civil lawsuit seeking damages greater than $500,000.00 or otherwise
commence legal action in a civil venue seeking damages greater than $500,000.00 without obtaining prior
approval of the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee. The motion carried.
17-5196
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE RICHARD R. BOYKIN, PRESIDENT TONI PRECKWINKLE,
JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
BRIDGET GAINER AND LUIS ARROYO JR, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE DENNIS DEER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, EDWARD M. MOODY,
STANLEY MOORE AND DEBORAH SIMS, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
17

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A RESOLUTION CALLING ON THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS
TO REINSTATE THE DEFERRED ACTION FOR CHILDHOOD ARRIVALS PROGRAM
OR REPLACE IT WITH A PATHWAY TO PERMANENT LEGAL RESIDENCY
WHEREAS, President Barack Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
program in 2012, as a compromise measure after Congress failed to pass the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, which would have provided certain eligible persons with a
pathway to permanent legal residency; and
WHEREAS, DACA did not provide a pathway to permanent legal residency, but made it possible for
individuals who were brought to the United States as children to live and work here legally for a renewable
two-year period, if they met the program’s stringent qualifications and other requirements; and
WHEREAS, since 2012, over 800,000 individuals have been approved for DACA, receiving deferred
action from deportation, social security numbers, and temporary work authorization; and
WHEREAS, Illinois has the fourth-largest DACA beneficiary population nationwide with more than
42,000 Illinoisans who have benefitted from the program; and
WHEREAS, on September 5, 2017, President Donald Trump rescinded DACA and, effective March 5,
2018, no further renewals will be granted, unless Congress acts to reinstate the program; and
WHEREAS, a failure to continue DACA or replace it with a pathway to permanent legal residency in light
of the President’s actions will not only be severely disruptive to the lives of DACA beneficiaries who
entrusted the government with personal information and came out of the shadows in exchange for relief
from deportation and other DACA benefits, but may also adversely impact the United States economy,
fracture communities, and engender greater distrust of government; and
WHEREAS, this country has always served as a beacon of hope to many suffering around the world; and
WHEREAS, the parents of DACA recipients brought them here at a young age to offer them a better life
and an opportunity to achieve the American dream; and
WHEREAS, DACA recipients did not choose to violate the immigration laws of the United States and
deserve the benefits and protections DACA offered; and
WHEREAS, DACA recipients have lived most of their lives in the United States and have made vast
contributions to this country; and
WHEREAS, until the program is reinstated or replaced with a pathway to permanent legal residency, no
DACA participants should be deported from the United States simply due to their citizenship and
immigration status.
18

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners
that the President of the United States ought to reinstate DACA and work with Congress to pass legislation
making it permanent, or replace it with a pathway to permanent legal residency; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this Resolution be delivered by the Cook County
Clerk to the President of the United States and each member of the Illinois Congressional Delegation.
Approved and adopted this 13th of September 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, to suspend
the rules. The motion carried.
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to accept the
Proposed Resolution as substituted. The motion carried.
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Resolution be approved as substituted. The motion carried.
17-5191
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN A. FRITCHEY, PRESIDENT TONI PRECKWINKLE,
JERRY BUTLER, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY,
DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG GOSLIN,
SEAN MORRISON, EDWARD MOODY, STANLEY MOORE,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
19

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

HONORING THE VICTIMS OF CHARLOTTESVILLE AND
CONDEMNING AND DISAVOWING WHITE SUPREMACY AND ALL FORMS OF RACISM
WHEREAS, the Declaration of Independence establishes one of the underlying principles of our
democracy with the following words: “We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty
and the pursuit of Happiness”; and
WHEREAS, one of the foundational principles of America and the strengths of our great democracy is our
diversity of thought, ideas and people; and
WHEREAS, we are a country where men and women of different races, faiths, sexual orientations and
political beliefs are united under the banner of the greatest country in the world, the United States of
America; and
WHEREAS, the members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the people of Cook County
mourn the victims of the tragic events in Charlottesville, Virginia and stand unified in our condemnation of
the hatred and intolerance espoused by the hundreds of white supremacists who marched in Charlottesville,
Virginia; and
WHEREAS, the response to these heinous acts of racism needs to come not just from the Federal
government, or the State of Virginia, or the City of Charlottesville, but it needs to come from communities
all across this country; and
WHEREAS, the act of vehicular violence that took place on Saturday, August 28th was most assuredly an
act of domestic terrorism; and
WHEREAS, we mourn the death of Helen Heyer and wish a rapid recovery to the dozens of people who
were injured by an individual who sought to silence diverse voices, that chose to stand up to proclaim and
show that hate will never win over love and the true American spirit; and
WHEREAS, we also mourn the deaths of the two Virginia State Police Officers: Lt. H. Jay Cullen and
Trooper Berke M.M. Bates, who lost their lives in the line of duty defending the people of the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners
repudiates and condemns white supremacists, neo-Nazis, the Ku Klux Klan and any other group espousing
hate and seeking to undermine the very ideals of who we are as Americans; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners celebrates
the diversity of our county and nation and condemns those who seek to spread hate and division while
attacking the foundational values of our county, state and nation.
20

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Approved and adopted this 13th of September 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to suspend
the rules. The motion carried.
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to accept the
Proposed Resolution as substituted. The motion carried.
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the
Resolution be approved as substituted. The motion carried.

17-5209
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT CLASSES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article II
- Real Property Taxation, Division 2 - Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-63 - Assessment
Classes and Section 74-64 - Market Value Percentages are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
(1) Class 1. Unimproved real estate.
(2) Class 2. Real estate:
a. Used as a farm;
b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not more
than six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a government
21

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

subsidized housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest assessment
category;
c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where the
building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or
d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division, provided
that:
1. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80 percent
of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single Room Occupancy
Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(hereinafter "FMR schedule");
2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the current
FMR schedule;
3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the
building shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and
4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and health
codes and requirements.
eE-1. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the property is situated or registered as a Bed & Breakfast with the State
of Illinois under the statute as established under 50 ILCS 820 /1 et. seq., the Illinois Bed and
Breakfast Act, with six rentable units or less and with all said units contained in one
improvement where one of the units is owner occupied and where the owner occupant is
entitled to may receive a Homeowner’s Exemption pursuant to the Illinois Property Tax
Code, Chapter 35, Title 4, Article 15.
***
(4) Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-profit corporation in furtherance of the purposes
set forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes or operating as a golf course and/or driving
range. If such real estate is used for residential purposes, it shall be classified in the appropriate
residential class.
***
Class 1000. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the property is situated or registered as a Bed & Breakfast with the State of Illinois
under the statute as established under 50 ILCS 820 /1 et. seq., the Illinois Bed and Breakfast Act, with
six rentable units or less and with all said units contained in one improvement where none of the units
22

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

are owner occupied and a Homeowner’s Exemption pursuant to the Illinois Property Tax Code, Chapter
35, Title 4, Article 15 shall available if allowed by law.
***
Sec. 74-64. - Market value percentages.
The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Review shall review, assessments on real estate in the
various classes at the following percentages of market value:
***
(4) Class 4: Twenty percent. This change shall be in effect on January 1, 2018
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2018.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee.
The motion carried.

17-5210

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE COMMITTEE ON DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE
RULES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-84 - Review of Administrative Rules is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-84. - Review of Department Administrative Rules

23

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(a)Establishment and Purpose: The Committee on Department Administrative Rules (for purposes of
this Section, “the Committee”) is hereby established. The purpose of the Committee shall be the creation
and promotion of adequate and proper rules by Cook County Departments.
(b)Applicability. All Rules drafted, published and/or implemented by any Department shall be reviewed
in accordance with this Section. For purposes of this Section, the term Rule is defined as a Department’s
statement of general applicability that implements, applies, interprets, or prescribes law or policy, but does
not include:
(i) statements concerning only the internal management of an agency and not affecting private rights
or procedures available to persons or entities outside the Department,
(ii) informal advisory rulings;
(iii) intra-agency memoranda; or
(iv) the prescription of standardized forms.
(c) Powers: The Committee may:
1. Examine any proposed rule, amendment to a rule, and repeal of a rule to determine whether the
proposed rule, amendment to a rule, or repeal of a rule is within the statutory authority upon which
it is based; whether the rule, amendment to a rule, or repeal of a rule is in proper form; and whether
the notice was given before its adoption, amendment, or repeal and was sufficient to give adequate
notice of the purpose and effect of the rule, amendment, or repeal.
2. Consider whether the Department has considered alternatives to the rule that are consistent with the
stated objectives of both the applicable statutes and regulations and whether the rule is designed to
minimize economic impact on small businesses.
3. Conduct hearings on proposed and/or existing Rules;
4. Receive and review oral or written testimony from Department employees or public witnesses
pertaining to Proposed or Existing Rules;
5. Undertake studies and investigations concerning rulemaking and Department Rules;
6. Monitor and investigate Department’s compliance with the provisions of this Act;
7. Make periodic investigations of the rulemaking activities of all Departments;
8. Evaluate and report on all rules in terms of their propriety, legal adequacy, relation to statutory
authorization, economic and budgetary effects, and public policy;
24

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

9. Request from any Department an analysis of the effect of a new rule, amendment or repealer,
including and direct economic effect on the persons regulated by the rule; any anticipated effect on
the proposing Department’s budget and the budgets or other Departments; the Department’s
justification and rationale for the intended rule, amendment or repealer; and/or any anticipated
effects on County Revenues;
10. Review the statutory authority on which any administrative rule is based;
11. Suggest rulemaking by a Department if the Department’s rules are incomplete, inconsistent or
otherwise deficient.
(d)Notice and Publication: Upon issuing a Rule, a Department shall submit the proposed Rule to the
Board of Commissioners, who shall send the Rule to the Committee. The Committee shall schedule a public
hearing on the Rule before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners. The
Secretary shall publish Notice of both meetings distribute the proposed Rule per established procedures.
Each agency shall make available for public inspection all final orders, decisions, and opinions, except
those deemed confidential by State or federal statute and any trade secrets.
(e)Comments: The Committee will encourage members of the public to submit comments on proposed
rules directly to the proposing Department. This policy will not limit the Committee from considering
comments or problems not submitted to the Department first.
(f)Committee Action: After conducting a public hearing on a proposed Rule, the Committee may accept
the proposed Rule as written, reject the Rule entirely, or object and modify the proposed Rule.
1. Acceptance - If the Committee accepts the Rule, the Rule shall go into effect 30 days after acceptance.
2. Rejection/Objection - If the Committee rejects or objects to a proposed rule, amendment to a rule, or
repeal of a rule, it shall certify the fact to the issuing Department and include with the certification a
statement of its specific objections.
The Department may:
i. Modify the proposed rule, amendment or repealer to meet the Committee’s objections;
ii. Withdraw the proposed rule, amendment or repealer in its entirety; or
iii. Refuse to modify or withdraw the proposed rule, amendment, or repealer
1. Modification - If a Department elects to modify a proposed rule, amendment or repealer to meet the
Committee’s objections, it shall make those modifications that are necessary to meet the objections
and then resubmit the rule, amendment or repealer to the Committee within 30 days of the public
hearing. Failure of a Department to respond to the Committee's objections to a proposed rule,
25

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

amendment, or repealer within 30 days shall constitute withdrawal of the proposed rule, amendment,
or repealer in its entirety.
If the Committee determines that the modifications do not remedy the Committee’s objections, it
shall notify the Department in writing and shall recommend legislative action to remedy the objection.
2. Failure to Object - Failure of the Committee to object to any proposed rule, amendment, or repealer
or any existing rule shall not be construed as implying direct or indirect approval of the rule or
proposed rule, amendment, or repealer.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-84 - Review of Administrative
Rules is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-106. - Committees.
***
(n) Standing committees. The standing committees, the standing subcommittees and the number
of members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair, but excluding ex officio
members) are as follows:
(1) Department Administrative Rules, five members.
(1) (2) Audit, seven members. (The County Auditor and Chief Financial Officer are ex officio,
nonvoting members of the Audit Committee.)
(2) (3) Asset Management, nine members.
(3) (4) Business and Economic Development, nine members.
(4) (5) Contract Compliance, nine members.
(5) (6) Criminal Justice, Committee of the Whole.
(6) (7) Environmental Control, seven members.
(7) (8) Finance, Committee of the Whole, with the following subcommittees with the number of
members indicated:
a. Litigation, seven members.
b. Tax Delinquency, five members.
c. Workers' Compensation, five members.
(7) (8) Health and Hospitals, Committee of the Whole.
26

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(8) (9) Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Committee of the Whole.
(9) (10) Human Relations, seven members.
(10) (11) Labor, nine members.
(11) (12) Law Enforcement, seven members.
(12) (13) Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations, Committee of the Whole.
(13) (14) Pension, seven members.
(14) (15) Roads and Bridges, Committee of the Whole.
(15) (16) Rules and Administration, nine members.
(16) (17) Technology and Innovation, nine members.
(17) (18) Veterans, seven members.
(18) (19) Workforce, Housing and Community Development, five members.
(19) (20) Zoning and Building, Committee of the Whole.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Ordinance be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee. The motion
carried.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

17-4730
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
27

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 6/29/2017-8/23/2017
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

17-4262
Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various Cook County Agencies
Vendor: Office Depot, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
28

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Good(s) or Service(s): County-wide office supplies
Original Contract Period: 8/1/2014 - 7/31/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$5,059,561.21

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/23/2014, $4,919,561.21
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/25/2017, $140,000.00, 8/1/2017
- 7/31/2018
This Increase Requested: $1,630,815.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $407,703.75, FY 2018 $1,223,111.25
Accounts: 350 - Various Departments
Contract Number(s): 1384-13045
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBEWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract is for County-wide office supply usage. This increase is based on estimated
County-wide expenditures for the first of two (2) one (1) year renewal option.

This contract was awarded through the Request for Proposals (RFP) process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Office Depot, Inc. was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4266
29

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various County Bureaus, Agencies and Office of the Elected Officials
Vendor: Various Law Firms:
Franczek Radelet, P.C., Chicago, Illinois
Zuber Lawler & del Duca (merged with Greene & Letts), Chicago, Illinois
Hennessy & Roach, P.C. Chicago, Illinois
Laner Muchin LTD, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Labor and Employment Consultation and/or Representation Services for six (6)
categories of legal services:
Category I - Union Contract Negotiations,
Category II - Contract Interpretation,
Category III - Labor Relations,
Category IV - Worker’s Compensation,
Category V - Employment Law, and
Category VI - Employee Benefits
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2013 - 4/30/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,900,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/17/2013, $1,900,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/29/2016, 5/1/2016 - 4/30/2017; 4/12/2017, 5/1/2017 4/30/2018
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/15/2015, 5/1/2015 - 4/30/2016
This Increase Requested: $790,709.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $412,425.00, FY 2018 $378,284.00
Accounts: 260 and 261 - Various Departments

30

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Contract Number(s):
Franczek Radelet, P.C. (13-90-048F for Category I, II, III, and V)
Zuber Lawler & Del Duca (13-90-048G for Category I, II, III and V)
Hennessy & Roach, P.C. (13-90-048H for Category I, II, III, IV and V)
Laner Muchin, LTD (13-90-048I for Category I, II, III, V and VI)
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The increase will permit various County Agencies to continue to engage law firms to provide
labor and employment consultation and/or representation for the above categories of services on an as
needed basis. Using Agencies enter into letters of engagement with firms to provide legal services.
These firms were selected based on evaluation criteria established in the Request for Qualifications
(RFQ) in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Firms were selected based on established
criteria.
_________________________________
This item was WITHDRAWN at the request of the sponsor.
17-5128
Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer

PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
Vendor: The Public Group, LLC, Provo, Utah
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): On-line Public Auction Services
Contract Value: None, Revenue Generating
Contract period: 10/15/2017 - 10/14/2020
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None, Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
31

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Contract Number(s): 1625-15738
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology concurs
Summary: Section 34-125(j) of the Cook County Procurement Code provides that the Chief Procurement
Officer facilitate the sale of surplus property. The Public Group LLC, provides a public web-based, online
auction system which will enable the County to manage the sale of its surplus items, including but not
limited to vehicles. This is a revenue generating contract, projected to return approximately $160,000.00 to
Cook County per year during the life of the contract.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
The Public Group, LLC was previously awarded a contract by the City of Tucson, Arizona through a
competitive Request for Proposal process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract be
approved. The motion carried.
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

17-1581
Presented by: JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD, Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health &
Hospitals System
PROPOSED COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM PRELIMINARY
BUDGET
Department: Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Summary: The Board of Directors of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System (“Health System
Board”) respectfully requests approval of the FY2018 Preliminary Budget of the Cook County Health &
Hospitals System (“CCHHS”), a copy of which is attached, pursuant to the Cook County Ordinance
Establishing the Cook County Health & Hospitals System, Section 38-83, Preliminary CCHHS Budget and
Annual Appropriation Ordinance.
_________________________________

32

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Cook County
Health and Hospitals Systems Preliminary Budget be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

17-5116
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various Agencies
Vendor: Interpark, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Self-Park parking spaces
Original Contract Period: 1/1/2013 - 12/31/2015 with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $161,400.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/1/2012, $108,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 12/14/16, $43,200.00, 01/01/2017 - 12/31/2017
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/3/2016, $10,200.00, 01/01/2016
- 12/31/2016
This Increase Requested: $68,886.40
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $68,886.40
Accounts: Various
Contract Number(s): 12-53-308B
33

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBEWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase amendment will allow the consolidation of self-park parking spaces needed for
various Cook County Agencies. The parking spaces are needed for County-owned M-Plate vehicles used
for Cook County business.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Interpark, LLC was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

17-3490
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Tinley Park, Illinois
Request: Approval of Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Part A Preliminary Engineering Study update and Part B Design Engineering
Services
Location: 175th Street from Oak park Avenue to Ridgeland Avenue, 175th Street to Oak Forest Avenue,
Ridgeland Avenue to 167th Street in the Village of Tinley Park.
34

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Section: 17-B6125-00-EG
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 6 and 17
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Fiscal Impact: $482,562.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Village of Tinley Park.
The Village of Tinley Park will be the lead agency for a Part A Preliminary Engineering Study Update
and Part B Design Engineering Services for improvements along 175th Street from Oak park Avenue to
Ridgeland Avenue, 175th Street to Oak Forest Avenue, Ridgeland Avenue to 167th Street in the Village
of Tinley Park. The County will reimburse the Village of Tinley Park for its share of improvement costs,
which is estimated at $482,562.00.
17-3490
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RESOLVED, by the members of The Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on behalf of
the County of Cook, to authorize and direct its President to execute, by original signature or authorized
signature stamp, two (2) copies of an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of Tinley Park,
attached, wherein the Village will be the lead agency for Part A preliminary engineering study update and
Part B design engineering services for improvements along 1751h Street from Oak Park Avenue to
Ridgeland Avenue, Ridgeland Avenue from 175th Street to Oak Forest Avenue and Oak Forest Avenue
from Ridgeland Avenue to 1671h Street; that the County of Cook will pay for a share of the Part A
preliminary engineering study update and Part B design engineering services costs incurred by the
Village and shall reimburse the Village of Tinley Park for its share of said costs (estimated total County
share $482,562. 00) under County Section: 17-66125-00-ES; and, the Department of Transportation and
Highways is authorized and directed to return one (1) executed copy of the Agreement with a certified
copy of this Resolution to the Village of Tinley Park and implement the terms of the Agreement.
35

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

September 13, 2017
____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.
17-4121
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: TranSystems Corporation, Schaumburg, Illinois
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Engineering Services - Contract Increase - Amendment 8
Location: Quentin Road: Dundee Road (IL Route 68) to Lake Cook Road
County Board District(s): 14
Original Contract Period:
Section: Section number or 05-V6246-10-ES
Proposed Contract Period Extension:
Section: Section number or 05-V6246-10-ES
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,695,824.96
Original Board Approval: 6/7/2005, $455,658.09
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): (9/7/2006, $116,044.36), (7/10/2007, $129,570.80),
(10/15/2008, $191,759.15), (10/19/2010, $148,547.68), (9/10/2012, $35,225.00), (7/17/2013,
$148,566.98), (9/09/2015, $470,452.90)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
36

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

This Increase Requested: $736,562.09
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $254,153.93; FY 2018 $240,704.08; FY 2019 $240,704.08
Accounts: 600-585 Motor Fuel Tax
Contract Number(s): N/A
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): BRS-0031(031)
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
N/A
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests authorization to
increase of the agreement with Transystems Corporation for Phase I Preliminary Engineering Services in
the amount of $736,562.09.
In 2005, the Department entered into an agreement with Transystems Corporation for Phase I Preliminary
Engineering Services for Quentin Road, Dundee Road to Lake Cook Road. This project was initiated and
a proposed improvement was presented to the public in 2009; however, this proposal met with significant
opposition due to its impacts to the adjacent Forest Preserve land. Since that time, the Department has
been working with the Forest Preserve and stakeholder groups to identify and address the environmental
concerns such that a new proposed improvement can be developed and implemented.
The project utilizes Federal funding, therefore the Phase I must follow the Federal NEPA process. Since
the contract was initiated, the NEPA processing for the Phase I has been elevated from a Categorical
Exclusion (CE) to an Environmental Class of Action Determination (ECAD) to an Environmental
Assessment (EA). All levels of processing require similar steps, but the EA requires a much more
in-depth level of analysis than a CE. It is not uncommon for an EA Phase I to take several years to
complete, to produce a proposed improvement which can be approved by the Federal Highway
Administration. At this time we believe we have identified all scope items which will be required to
complete the full EA Phase I process, and Transystems has prepared a supplemental scope and cost
estimate which outlines the additional services required to complete the Phase I. The major tasks included
in the expanded scope are detailed engineering studies for an additional alternative including detailed
drainage and water quality analyses, conduct a third Public Information Meeting to present two finalist
project alternatives, conduct environmental and hydraulic studies and analyses of the Dunhaven Woods
subdivision complex as a potential area to implement stormwater detention and water quality best
management practices (BMPs), plan, prepare, and attend six NEPA/404 Merger meetings, plan, prepare,
37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

and attend up to 16 focus group meetings to be held with the project stakeholders, and create an
intersection design study for the recommended signalized intersection of Quentin Road and the Deer
Grove Forest Preserve/Camp Reinberg entrance.
____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.
17-4282
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Township of Worth
Request: Approval of Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Construction and Engineering of Pavement Rehabilitation Improvements
Location: Township of Worth, Illinois
Section: 17-REHAB-02-PV
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 4, 5, 6, 11 and17
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: $1,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Township of Worth.
The Township of Worth will be the lead agency for the design, construction and construction engineering
38

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

of pavement rehabilitation improvements at various locations throughout the Township, which includes
129th Place, 128th Street, Lawndale Avenue and 116th Street. The County will reimburse the Township
of Worth for its share of construction costs up to $1,000,000.00.
____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.
17-4354
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Status Report
Report Period: Period ending 6/30/2017
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits the Bureau of
Construction’s Monthly Status Report for the period ending 6/30/2017.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
17-4636
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT)
Request: Authorization to enter into an interagency agreement
Description: IDOT will construct a new Pedestrian Bridge along Old Willow Springs Road over the
Plaines River. IDOT will transfer jurisdiction of the Pedestrian Bridge to Cook County 21 days after the
39

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

final inspection and acceptance of the proposed improvement by IDOT.
Location: Village of Willow Springs, Illinois - Old Willow Springs Road over the Des Plaines River.
County Board District: 17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
17-4636
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Providing for the addition of Old Willow Springs Road over Des Plaines River Pedestrian Bridge to
the County Highway System in Cook County, Illinois.
WHEREAS, the County Board of Cook and the State of Illinois through its Department of
Transportation entered into an agreement for transfer of jurisdiction of the above location to the Cook
County Highway System.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the above location, with Department of Transportation
approval, be added to the highway system of Cook County.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the clerk is hereby directed to transmit three certified copies of
this Resolution to the State through its Regional Engineer's Office at Schaumburg, Illinois.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Interagency
Agreement be approved. The motion carried.
40

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4639
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Hoffman Estates, Hoffman Estates, Illinois
Request: Approval of Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Off Street Multi-use Path Engineering Study for the Village of Hoffman Estates, as
part of the County’s Phase I Engineering Study, along Central Road from Barrington Road to Huntington
Boulevard.
Location: Central Road from Barrington Road to Huntington Boulevard in the Village of Hoffman
Estates
Section: 14-6PESV-03-ES
Centerline Mileage: 0.95 miles
County Board District: 14 and 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Fiscal Impact: $292,604.06 ($64,306.62 to be reimbursed from the Village of Hoffman Estates)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Village of Hoffman Estates.
The County will include an Off Street Multi-use Path Engineering Study for the Village of Hoffman
Estates, as part of the County’s Phase I Engineering Study, along Central Road from Barrington Road to
Huntington Boulevard. The Village of Hoffman Estates will reimburse the County for its share of the
multi-use path engineering study costs, which are estimated at $64,306.62.
17-4639
RESOLUTION
41

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

RESOLVED by the members of The Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on behalf
of the County of Cook, to authorize and direct its President to execute, by original signature or
authorized signature stamp, two (2) copies of an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of
Hoffman Estates, said agreement attached, wherein the County will include off street multi-use path
engineering study for the Village as part of the County's Phase I engineering study along Central
Road from Barrington Road to Huntington Boulevard, Section: 14-6PESV-03-ES; that the Village of
Hoffman Estates shall reimburse the County of Cook for its share of multi-use path engineering study
costs, estimated total Village cost $64,306. 62; and, the Department of Transportation and Highways
is authorized and directed to return an executed copy of this Resolution with Agreement to the Village
of Hoffman Estates and implement the terms of the Agreement.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.
17-4640
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
Request: Approval of Proposed Agreement
Goods or Services: Highway Authority Agreement, along with an attached Supplemental Agreement,
between Cook County and ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
Location: 1798 Hintz Road (CH A54) at Old Buffalo Grove Road in the Village of Wheeling, Illinois
Section Number: N/A
County Board District: 14
42

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Centerline Mileage: N/A
Agreement Period: a One-time Agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Agreement for Highway Authority between Cook County and ExxonMobil Oil Corporation.
The County, by executing the Agreement, will agree to restrict the extraction of potable water from its
highway right-of-way at this location, inform Permittees of the proscribed status of the referenced location
and require that Permittees properly dispose of excavated soil. The Agreement further makes provisions
for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the County should the Department of Transportation and
Highways be required in the course of normal maintenance to expose and dispose of contaminated soils.
17-4640
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

RESOLVED, by the members of The Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on behalf of the
County of Cook, to authorize and direct its President to execute, by original signature or authorized
signature stamp, three (3) copies of a HIGHWAY AUTHORITY AGREEMENT along with a
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT with ExxonMobil Oil Corporation, attached hereto and made part
hereof, wherein, on highways under Cook County jurisdiction, adjacent to ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
owned facilities and subject to said Agreements for Tier 1 residential remediation objectives, the County
of Cook shall prohibit the extraction of potable water from its right-of-way and shall notify Permittees of
proscribed status and requirements at the following location as part of its Department of Transportation and
Highways Permit process
RESOLVED, that the following location is approved as being subject to HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
AGREEMENT along with a SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT:
1798 Hintz Road (CH A54) at Old Buffalo Grove Road in the Village of Wheeling
RESOLVED, and accepted; that ExxonMobil Oil Corporation indemnifies and holds the County of Cook
43

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

harmless from damages and liabilities arising from the presence of contaminants in County of Cook
right-of-way; and, that the reimbursement procedure be accepted for the County of Cook to be reimbursed
for costs incurred should, in the course of normal highway maintenance, the County of Cook be required
to excavate and dispose of contaminated soils.
RESOLVED, that the Department of Transportation and Highways is directed to take the necessary
action called for in the HIGHWAY AUTHORITY AGREEMENT along with SUPPLEMENTAL
AGREEMENT and to return one (1) executed copy of the Agreements to Exxon Mobil Oil Corporation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Agreement
be approved. The motion carried.
17-4642
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Rehabilitation
Location: 26th Street from Beach Avenue to Kenman Avenue in the Village of La Grange Park
Section: 17-REHAB-01-PV
County Board District(s): 16 and 17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $175,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Improvement Resolution for pavement rehabilitation services.
44

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

The services will include improvements from 26th Street from Beach Avenue to Kenman Avenue in the
Village of La Grange Park, in Cook County. These improvements, as proposed, will consist of milling
existing roadway pavement and full depth patching of base course as needed.
17-4642
IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract
for 26th Street, from Beach Avenue to Kenman Avenue.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of milling of existing
roadway pavement, full depth patching of base course, hot-mix leveling binder and surface courses,
drainage structure adjustments, removal and replacement of deteriorated concrete curb and gutter and
sidewalks, installation of ADA curb ramps, landscaping, signing and pavement markings. That there is
hereby appropriated the sum of One Hundred Seventy-Five Thousand ($175,000.00) for the improvement
of said section form the Local Public Agency’s allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Improvement Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4643
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Rehabilitation
Location: Various locations within the City of Chicago
45

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Section: 17-REHAB-03-PV
County Board District(s): 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7-13
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $3,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Improvement Resolution for pavement rehabilitation services in the City of Chicago.
The services will include improvements of roadways at various locations within the City of Chicago, in
Cook County, which will consist of milling and resurfacing of the existing bituminous pavement with
hot-mix asphalt or diamond grinding existing concrete pavement.
17-4643
IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract
for various roadways.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of milling and resurfacing
existing pavements with hot-mix asphalt, removal and replacement of concrete curb and gutter and
sidewalks as needed, reconstruction of ADA sidewalk ramps, res-striping of crosswalks and stop bars, curb
paint, landscaping and traffic control and protection. That there is hereby appropriated the sum of Three
Million NO/100 ($3,000,000.00) for the improvement of said section form the Local Public Agency’s
allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Improvement Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4644
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
46

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval of the Proposed Appropriating Resolution
Good(s) or Services(s): Professional Engineering Services - Quality Control/Quality Assurance and
Material Testing for the construction of County projects
Location: Various locations throughout Cook County
Section: 17-8TEST-00-EG
Fiscal Impact: $2,750,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Appropriating Resolution for professional engineering services throughout Cook County.
The engineering services will include Quality Control/Quality Assurance and Material Testing for the
construction of County projects at various locations throughout Cook County by an engineering consultant.
Said services shall be supervised by County Forces.
17-4644
APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of professional engineering
services for quality control/quality assurance and material testing. Scope includes but is not limited to
laboratory and field testing of soils and bituminous mixtures, review of hot mix asphalt design and
assitstance in managing the Quality Assurance Program. That there is hereby appropriated the sum of Two
Million Seven Hundred Fifty dollars NO/100 ($2,750,000.00) for the improvement of said section form the
Local Public Agency’s allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
47

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Appropriating Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4645
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Construction and Engineering Services - Cal-Sag Bridge Steel Truss Strengthening FY 2018
Location: Cal-Sag Bridge in the Village of Alsip, Village of Palos Heights and Worth Township
Section: 18-CSSTS-00-BR
County Board District(s): 5, 6 and 17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $3,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Improvement Resolution for Design Engineering and Construction Services.
The services include design engineering for the steel truss member strengthening design, construction
repairs to seventy eight members and other necessary work.
17-4645
IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract.
48

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of design engineering for
steel truss member strengthening design, construction repairs to seventy eight members and other necessary
work as recommended in the 2017 Fracture Critical inspection reports. This strengthening is required to
address the steel section loss in the main load carrying members. That there is hereby appropriated the
sum of Three Million dollars NO/100 ($3,000,000.00) for the improvement of said section form the Local
Public Agency’s allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Improvement Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4646
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION
AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of Proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Project: Construction Services
Location: Plum Grove Road at Euclid Avenue and Kirchoff Road in the City of Rolling Meadows
Section: 05-00743-01-CH
County Board District: 14
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $9,500.00
49

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Board Approved Date and Amount: 1/20/2005, $450,000.00
Increased Amount: $9,500.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $459,500.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution. The improvements will include roadway reconstruction
along Plum Grove Road, widening of the existing channelized pavement along Euclid Avenue and
widening of the existing pavement along Kirchoff Road in the City of Rolling Meadows.
17-4646
IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, for roadway/street improvements to Plum Grove Road at Euclid Avenue
and Kirchoff Road.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of roadway reconstruction
along Plum Grove Road, widening of the existing channelized pavement along Euclid Avenue to
accommodate additional storage for left turn lanes and the addition of an eastbound right turn lane widening
of the existing channelized pavement along Kirchoff Road. That there is hereby appropriated the sum of
Nine Thousand Five Hundred dollars NO/100 ($9,500.00) for the improvement of said section form the
Local Public Agency’s allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Supplemental Improvement Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4647
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
50

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Construction Services
Location: Old Orchard Road - Woods Drive to Skokie Boulevard in the Village of Skokie
Section: 17-A8327-00-PV
County Board District(s): 13
Centerline Mileage: 0.7 miles
Fiscal Impact: $24,860,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Improvement Resolution for construction services in the Village of Skokie.
The improvements will include pavement widening and reconstruction, intersection improvements
including additional turn lanes, pedestrian crosswalks and pedestrian-actuated signals, traffic
modernization including emergency vehicle pre-emption and re-optimization of signal timings and
replacement of the IDOT Bridge over I-94.
17-4647
IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Board of the County of Cook, Illinois that the following described
street(s)/road(s)/structure be improved under the Illinois Highway Code. Work shall be done by contract.
Roadway/street improvements Old Orchard Road, from Woods Drive to Skokie Boulevard.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proposed improvement shall consist of pavement widening and
reconstruction, intersection improvements including additional turn lanes, pedestrian crosswalks and
pedestrian-actuated signals, traffic modernization including emergency vehicle pre-emption and reoptimization of signal timings and replacement of the IDOT bridge over I-94. That there is hereby
appropriated the sum of Twenty-Four Million Eight Hundred Sixty Thousand dollars NO/100
($24,860,000.00) for the improvement of said section form the Local Public Agency’s allotment of Motor
Fuel Tax Funds.
51

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit four (4) certified originals
of this resolution to the district office of the Department of Transportation.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Improvement Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4648
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Status Report
Report Period: Period Ending 7/31/2017
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits the Bureau of
Construction Monthly Status Report for the period ending 7/31/2017.
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
17-4649
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Peter Baker & Son Company, Lake Bluff, Illinois
Action: Approval of Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
52

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services - QC/QA Milling and Resurfacing Improvements
Location of Project: Sanders Road - Techny Road to Lake Cook Road in the Village of Northbrook
Section: 13-W2445-07-RS
County Board District: 14
Contract Number: 1455-13406
Federal Project Number:
Federal Job Number:

N/A

N/A

Final Cost: $2,705,385.74
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $539,079.03 or 16.6% below the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution.
The QC/QA improvement consists of milling and resurfacing of Sanders Road from Techny Road to
Lake-Cook Road. The improvement provides for removal of the existing asphalt surface to a depth of
four (4) inches, full depth patching of base pavement as required and resurfacing with asphalt. The
improvement also includes patching and diamond grinding in areas of concrete pavement, removal and
replacement of damaged median, ADA compliant sidewalk ramps, removal and replacement of damaged
concrete curb and gutter, drainage improvements and adjustments, installation of a permanent signal at
Lindenwood Lane, pavement markings, traffic control and protection, landscaping and other related work
to complete the project.
The decrease in project costs are attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and actual
field quantities of work performed with deduction in Class D patching, earth excavation, sub-base granular
material and leveling binder items per field conditions.
17-4649
APPROVAL RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the highway improvement, Sanders Road - Techny Road to Lake Cook Road, in the
Township of Northfield, Section No.: 13-W2445-07-RS, The proposed QC/QA improvement consisted
of full depth patching, milling and resurfacing the existing pavement using hot-mix asphalt materials,
and included drainage additions and adjustments, removal and replacement of deteriorated median,
concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement as needed, ADA compliant sidewalk ramps,
diamond grinding, traffic signal installation at Lindenwood Lane, landscaping, traffic control and
53

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

protection, pavement markings, signing, engineering and other related work to complete the project
has been completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
WHEREAS, the aforesaid highway improvement has been satisfactorily completed in accordance with
the provisions and stipulations of aforesaid contract, now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the work and construction of aforesaid contract be, and hereby, is approved.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Approval
Resolution be approved. The motion carried.

17-4650
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Landmark Contractors, Incorporated, Huntley, Illinois
Action: Approval of the Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Kedzie Avenue from 139th Street to 135th Street and 139th Street from Kedzie
Avenue to Utica Avenue in the Village of Robins and the Village of Blue Island
Section: 13-W4612-07-LS and 13-W4612-09-LS
County Board District: 5
Contract Number: 1428-13237
Federal Project Number: TE-HPP-1375(002)
Federal Job Number: C-91-288-13
54

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Final Cost: $1,854,491.19
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $302,064.21 or 8.9% below the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution.
The construction improvements include construction and installation of parkway enhancements, street
lighting, sidewalks, ADA ramps, minor drainage improvements, crosswalk and intersection pavement
markings, landscaping and other related work to complete the project.
The decrease in project costs are attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and actual
field quantities of work performed with deduction in rock excavation for structures, supplemental
watering, erosion control blanket and street lighting items per field conditions.

17-4650
APPROVAL RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the highway improvement, Kedzie Avenue - 1391h Street to 135th Street and 1391h
Street - Kedzie Avenue to Utica Avenue, in the Township of Bremen, Section No.: 13-W4612-07LS, the proposed improvement consisted of construction and installation of streetscape, street
lighting, sidewalks, ADA ramps, drainage improvements, crosswalk and intersection pavement
markings, landscaping, curb and gutter removal and replacement , illuminate gateway signs, traffic
control and protection and other related work to complete the project has been completed under the
supervision and satisfaction of the Superintendent.
WHEREAS, the aforesaid highway improvement has been satisfactorily completed in accordance
with the provisions and stipulations of aforesaid contract, now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the work and construction of aforesaid contract be, and hereby, is
approved.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Approval
Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4812
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
55

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Paul Borg Construction Company, Chicago, Illinois
Action: Approval of the Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Mount Hope Cemetery Driveway on 119th Street between Kedzie Avenue and
Western Avenue in the Village of Blue Island
Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES
County Board District: 5
Contract Number: 11-28-055
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $45,953.74
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: 0%
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution.
The services included the reconstruction of Mount Hope Cemetery Driveway on 119th Street. A new
driveway was reconstructed with pipe culvert, trench backfill, manhole, catch basin, binder and surface
course, concrete curb, topsoil, sod and traffic control and other related work to complete the project.
17-4812
APPROVAL RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the highway improvement, Mount Hope Cemetery Driveway on 1191h Street between
Kedzie Ave. and Western Ave., in Village of Blue Island, Section No.: 12-6HISP-36-ES the
improvement consisted of reconstruction of the driveway with pipe culvert, trench backfill, manhole,
catch basin, binder and surface course, concrete curb, topsoil, sod, traffic control and other related work
to complete the project has been completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
56

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, the aforesaid highway improvement has been satisfactorily completed in accordance with
the provisions and stipulations of aforesaid contract, now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the work and construction of aforesaid contract be, and hereby, is approved.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Approval
Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4813
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): A. Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois.
Action: Approval of the Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Lake Cook Road from Pfingsten Road to Waukegan Road in the Village of
Deerfield and Unincorporated Northfield Township
Section: 05-A5021-07-RP
County Board District: 14
Contract Number: 13-28-023
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $8,972,455.88
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $240,809.48 or 2.76% above the
Construction Contract Bid Amount.
57

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution.
The construction services included the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Lake Cook Road, from four
lanes to six lanes with concrete pavement, pavement patching, aggregate subgrade, curb and gutter,
median, sidewalk, retaining walls, street lighting, traffic signals, pavement striping, water main installation,
enclosed drainage system, landscaping and other related work to complete the project.
The increase in project costs is attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and the actual
field quantities of work performed with an increase in new items for patching, driveway pavement, median
removal, concrete structures, drainage items, sanitary structure lining, landscaping items, variable curb and
gutter, surface removal, precast lagging wall, modification for special handrail and incentive for
accelerated schedule.
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Approval
Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-4814
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): FHP Tectonics Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Action: Approval of the Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Central Avenue Bridge in the Village of Stickney
Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES
County Board District: 11 and 16
Contract Number: 11-28-056
58

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $27,050.76
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: 0%
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution.
The Central Avenue Bridge-Debris Protective Shield construction services included the installation of a
concealed protective barrier, over secured area (MWRDGC) between bridge girders, wood supports,
plywood, bridge span on B Street and between Pier 12 and 18 for the of 660 linear feet and other related
work to complete the project.

17-4814
APPROVAL RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the highway improvement, Central Avenue Bridge over (MWRDGC) secured area, in
Village of Stickney, Section No.: 12-HISP-36-ES the improvement provided for installation of
concealed protective barrier in between bridge girders, wood supports, plywood, bridge span on B
Street and between Pier 12 and 18 for the total of 660 linear feet and other related work to
complete the project has been completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
WHEREAS, the aforesaid highway improvement has been satisfactorily completed in accordance
with the provisions and stipulations of aforesaid contract, now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, that the work and construction of aforesaid contract be, and hereby, is
approved.
September 13, 2017
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to approve
17-4814. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
59

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5058
Presented by: EARL MANNING, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Capital Planning & Policy
Vendor: Nagle Hartray Architecture, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Architectural and Engineering Services
Original Contract Period: 7/7/2014 - 9/23/2016
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/23/2017 - 09/22/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$696,077.64

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/18/2014, $640,142.64
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 2/16/2016, $55,935.00,
10/27/2016, 9/23/2016 - 9/22/2017
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $50,000.00, FY 2018 $346,077.64
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program - 031
Contract Number(s): 1455-13398
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This extension will allow the Department of Capital Planning and Policy (DCCP) to amend
the design scope of work to include the north half of the County Building and address the water infiltration
60

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

issues presented. This will enable DCPP to move forward with water infiltration design that will protect all
of the County Building perimeter Nagle Hartray Architecture, Ltd. was prequalified through the County’s
Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. The
contract was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

17-4658
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Root Brothers Manufacturing & Supply Company, Hammond, Indiana
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Supply Power Tools and Accessories
Contract Value: $153,187.50
Contract period: 9/27/2017 - 9/26/2020 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $8,510.40, FY 2018 $51,062.40, FY2019 $51,062.40,
FY2020 $42,552.30
Accounts: 200-333 Institutional Supplies
Contract Number(s): 1784-16512B
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver with indirect participation.
61

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will allow the Department of Facilities Management to acquire power tools and
accessories for various Cook County Facilities.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Root Brothers Manufacturing and Supply Company was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

17-4277
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Request to approve new lease agreement
Landlord: Exoho Harlem Assoc., LLC, North Riverside, Illinois
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 1800 Harlem Ave., North Riverside, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: Ten (10) years, commencement estimated 9/15/2017.
Space Occupied: 20,676 sq. ft.
Monthly Rent:
Years
1-5
6 - 10

PSF (Rounded)
$15.50
$16.28

Monthly
$26,706.50
$28,050.44
62

Annual
$320,478.00
$336,605.28

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2017-2027 funds.
Accounts: 893-690/550162 Rental and Leasing
Option to Renew: Two (2) option periods of five (5) years with no less than nine (9) months written
notice to the landlord.
Termination: NA
Utilities Included: Tenant shall pay for all water, sanitary sewer, gas, electricity, and other utilities used
on the Premises to be separately metered.
Summary/Notes: The Cook County Ambulatory & Community Health Network, (ACHN) will operate a
primary care clinic allowing for expanded services in family medicine, internal medicine, obstetrics,
pediatrics, behavioral health and dental services replacing the current Cicero Clinic.
This Lease Agreement was submitted and approved by the Health & Hospitals System at their meeting on
5/26/2017.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Lease
Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

17-4492
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Real Estate Management
Vendor: CBRE, Inc., Los Angeles, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Property management services for George W. Dunne Cook County Office
Building
Original Contract Period: 8/15/2014 - 8/14/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 8/15/2017 - 8/14/2018
63

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

September 13, 2017

$522,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/23/2014, $522,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $178,800.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $52,150.00, FY 2018 $126,650.00
Accounts: 490-472 Operating Costs for the Cook County Adm. Bldg.
Contract Number(s): 1323-13201
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBEWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2) renewal options permit the Department of Real Estate
Management to continue to receive property management services for the George W. Dunn Building.
This contract was awarded pursuant to the Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. CBRE, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4703
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division, TIMOTHY C.
EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
64

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Request: Approval of a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network (UCAN)
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 3605 W. Fillmore, Chicago, Illinois 60624
Term/Extension Period: 9/28/2017 - 10/31/2018
Space Occupied: 2,892 sq. ft
Monthly Rent: $1,600.00
Years
1

Rent PSF
$6.64

Monthly
$1,600.00

Annual
$20,800.00

Fiscal Impact: $3,200.00 FY17 $17,600.00 FY18
Accounts: 310-260 FY17/310-660 FY18
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: Yes, Landlord provides electricity, heat, air conditioning and water each Thursday of
the month
Summary/Notes: Circuit Court of Cook County will utilize the four (4) rooms and the common space of
the premises once per week for the Restorative Justice Community Court (RJCC) of North Lawndale.
The RJCC will serve emerging adults ages 18-26 by applying restorative justice practices to encourage
defendants to take accountability for their actions and then work out agreements with those harmed and
the community that focus on restitution, community service and letters of apology.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Lease
Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

17-4705
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division, TIMOTHY C.
EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
65

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Fifth Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago/Central State Institute
Location: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th District Court Buildings
Term/Extension Period: Three (3) years/10/1/2017 - 9/30/2020
Space Occupied: 12,040 sq. ft
Monthly Rent:
Period
10/1/2017-9/30/2018
10/1/2018-9/30/2019
10/1/2019-9/30/2020

Annual
$141,951.60
$146,286.00
$150,620.40

MonthlyPSF
$11,829.30$11.79
$12,190.50$12.15
$12,551.70$12.51

Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: Revenue Generating
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: Either party may terminate with 120 days written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary: The Tenant shall continue to use and occupy the premises for general office purposes for
Central States Institute of Addiction, in connection with activities related to the operation of the courts in
the Building in which the respective portion of the premises is located. The Fourth Amendment to the
lease expires 9/30/2017; CSIA requests and the Chief Judge’s office approves a three (3) year renewal.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Lease
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.
66

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4811
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: LW Arlington, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 3250 Arlington Heights Rd, Arlington Heights, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: Ten (10) years and two (2) months
Space Occupied: Approximately 25,771 rentable square feet; final determination of square footage will
be subject to space planning and in accordance with the 1996 BOMA standard for office buildings. Final
determination is 24,948 sq. ft.
Monthly Rent: Landlord will abate initial two (2) months of gross rent to start upon lease
commencement:
Years
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Rent PSF
$16.00
$16.50
$17.00
$17.50
$18.00
$18.50
$19.00
$19.50
$20.00
$20.50

Monthly
$33,264.00
$34,303.50
$35,343.00
$36,382.50
$37,422.00
$38,461.50
$39,501.00
$40,540.00
$41,580.00
$42,619.50

Annual
$399,168.00
$411,642.00
$424,116.00
$436,590.00
$449,064.00
$461,538.00
$474,012.00
$486,486.00
$498,960.00
$511,434.00

Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2018-2027 funds
Accounts: 893-660 Rental of Facilities
Option to Renew: Two (2) five (5) year periods at prevailing market rate.

Termination: N/A
67

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Utilities Included: No, In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall be responsible, on a monthly basis, for its
proportionate share of real estate taxes and operating expenses above a 2017 base year estimated at
$6.50/sf combined.
Summary/Notes: Landlord will provide an allowance of $50.00/sf of approx. $1,247,400.00 with two
months of free rent. Construction costs are estimated at $109.25/sf at approx. $2,725,544.00 with net
costs of approx. 1,478,144.00 with an additional $5.00-$7.00/sf for all IT/Cabling.
The Cook County Ambulatory & Community Health Network (ACHN) will utilize the premises to operate
a primary care clinic allowing for additional services in family medicine, internal medicine, obstetrics,
pediatrics, behavioral health and additional specialty provider services along with dental and pharmacy
services to meet the growing demand for area healthcare services.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Lease
Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

17-1003
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): The Town of Cicero
Request: Approve an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Town of Cicero
Goods or Services: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development will administer the Town
of Cicero’s Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) in the amount of $135,154.00 on the Town’s behalf,
providing critical services to homeless individuals and those at risk of becoming homeless in the Town of
Cicero.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
68

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Agreement Period: The agreement is effective as of 1/1/2017 and will remain in effect until the ESG
funds are expended. This is a one-time agreement, but Cook County and the Town of Cicero may execute
similar agreements in the future for additional ESG funds received by the Town Cicero.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Town of Cicero is receiving ESG funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) for the first time. Cicero has asked the County to administer this new funding on the
Town of Cicero’s behalf. Cook County has been a long-time recipient of its own ESG funding from HUD
and has successfully administered the ESG program throughout suburban Cook County, including in the
west suburban area that includes Cicero. Cook County will utilize a small portion of Cicero’s ESG funding
to cover its administrative costs, but the vast majority of the funding will be provided via subgrant to
Housing Forward, an agency with a strong track record of utilizing ESG funding in the western suburbs.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

17-5083
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County Board
of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
800 LEE STREET, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: 800 Lee Street, LLC
Address: 800 Lee Street, Elk Grove Village, Illinois 60007
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Elk Grove Village
Cook County District: 15th
Permanent Index Number: 08-22-102-143-0000
69

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Municipal Resolution Number: Elk Grove Village, Resolution Number 2-17
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Four (4) months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Two (2) - five (5) full-time jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: Eight (8) full-time, two (2) part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10-20 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Assembly of Aluminum windows and doors and the cutting and polishing of
flat glass as well as the warehousing and distribution of the same.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
70

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee. The motion carried.

17-5086
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TRADEWATER EGV, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Tradewater EGV, LLC
Address: 650 Morse Ave., Elk Grove, Illinois 60007
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Elk Grove Village
Cook County District: 15th
Permanent Index Number: 08-34-102-025-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Elk Grove Village, Resolution Number 20-16
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 20 months vacant
71

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Three (3) full-time jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 10 full-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 30-40 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Warehousing and processing of harmful CFC refrigerants to reduce and
prevent the release of ozone depleting substance into the atmosphere.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
72

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee. The motion carried.

17-5106
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PARAMOUNT TRUCK BODY CO. OR ITS NOMINEE, UNINCORPORATED COOK
COUNTY 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Paramount Truck Body Co. or its Nominee
Address: 4929 S. Mason Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60638
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Unincorporated Township Stickney
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 19-08-202-036-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: N/A Unincorporated Cook County
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Number of months vacant 60 months
Special circumstances justification requested: No
73

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Three (3) - five (5) full-time jobs, over the next
five (5) years
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 13 full-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10-12 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Manufacturing and assembly of fabricated box trucks and flatbeds
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes, an Economic Disclosure
Statement has been received by the Bureau of Economic Development
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
74

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee. The motion carried.

17-5114
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board
Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MALMO PRATT LLC -MALMO DRIVE SERIES 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Malmo Pratt LLC -Malmo Drive Series
Address: 3000 Malmo Drive, Mount Prospect, Illinois 60005
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Mount Prospect
Cook County District: 9
Permanent Index Number: 08-23-202-035-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Mount Prospect Resolution Number 23-17
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 12 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
TEERM (TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION
(Vacant for more than 12 months but less than 24 months - No Purchase for Value)
75

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Justification: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 20 full-time jobs over the next 3 years
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location:

15 full-time jobs

Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 15-25 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Warehousing and distribution of used automated packaging machinery.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial/commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property as abandoned for purpose of the Class 6b TEERM (TEMPORARY
EMERGENY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment according to the TEERM definition, abandonment is defined as
a facility being vacant over 12 months but less than 24 months with no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, in such instances, the County may determine that special circumstances exist under
TEERM; thus qualifying the property as abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b TEERM requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as
abandoned for the purpose of the Class 6b TEERM; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b TEERM is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition
of abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be
76

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b TEERM; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee.

17-5115
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and STANLEY MOORE, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
BLUETICK REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS LLC/CHRIS PALIGA CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX
INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: Bluetick Real Estate Holdings LLC/Chris Paliga
Address: 17940 Torrence Avenue, Lansing, Illinois 60438
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Lansing
Cook County District: 4
Permanent Index Number: (2) PINs:
Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution 917 approved 2/17/2015
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 22 months at the time of application to BED
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
77

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 4 full-time, 32 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 0 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 0 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 7-12
Proposed use of property: Commercial-Restaurant
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: N/A
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned
property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10%
of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
78

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee. The motion carried.

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

17-4877
Presented by: MARK EDINGBURG, Interim Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management (Inactive)
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: The Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantee: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantor: City of Chicago Police Department
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of this grant is to support training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual
support and criminal justice information systems related to law enforcement programs, prosecution and
court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections programs,
drug treatment programs; planning, and evaluation and technology improvement programs.
Grant Amount: $476,582.00
Grant Period: 10/1/2017 - 9/30/2020
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
79

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Budget and Management Services has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact
on Cook County, if any.
Summary: Chicago, as the lead agency, will receive the full JAG award amount on behalf of all parties
and distribute JAG funds to all subgrantees, to include Cook County. Chicago and each Governing Body
to include Cook County, will provide services and activities in accordance with the guidelines outlines in
Exhibit A- Scope of the Program.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Grant Award
be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

17-5105
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Report Title: HR Activity Report
Report Period: Pay Periods 13, 14, and 15, covering dates: 6/11/2017 - 7/22/2017
Summary: These reports lists all Human Resources activity for Grades 17 - 24 including new hires,
terminations, transfers and salary increases, for all Cook County employees.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Report
be received and filed. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
80

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4267
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A., Inc., Ramsey, New Jersey
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Leasing of multifunction photocopiers on a cost-per-copy basis
Original Contract Period: 11/2/2013 - 11/1/2018
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $2,083,024.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/11/2013 $2,083,024.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $750,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2017 $375,000.00, FY 2018 $375,000.00

Accounts: 490/630
Contract Number(s): 1384-12815
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and full MBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Technology requests approval of an increase to Contract No. 1384-12815 to
accommodate the leasing of additional photocopiers under the agreement. All County Offices and
Departments currently rely upon copiers leased through this agreement.
81

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

This contract was awarded through competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A. was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4276
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Pro-West and Associates, Inc., Walker, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Building and Zoning Permit Tracking Application
Original Contract Period: 3/1/2014 - 2/28/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $585,364.27
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/19/2014, $379,365.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 2/8/17, $97,435.52, 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2018)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1/4/2016, $16,200.00, 3/1/2017 2/28/2017; 5/25/2016, $25,228.75; 9/8/2016, $67,135.00
This Increase Requested: $149,820.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2017 $85,611.43, FY 2018 $64,208.57

Accounts: Fund#: 11569, Project ID#: 21411 Award#: 10095
82

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Contract Number(s): 1318-12726
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MBE/WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase will allow the Bureau of Technology to continue to receive services and will
accommodate County ordinance changes that affect Building and Zoning permitting processes.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. Pro-West and Associates, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation
criteria.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-5096
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: AT&T Corp., Bedminster, New Jersey
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Telecommunications Services
Contract Value: $35,000,000.00
Contract period: 10/1/2017 - 9/30/2022 with two (2) one (1)-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $1,750,000.00, FY 2018 $7,000,000.00, FY 2019
$7,000,000.00, FY 2020 $7,000,000.00, FY 2021 $7,000,000.00, FY 2022 $5,250,000.00.
Accounts: 11100.1499.10155.520155
83

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Contract Number(s): 1718-16625
Concurrence(s):
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will provide telecommunications utility services for all Cook County locations,
including the Health and Hospitals System. In addition to ongoing telecommunications services, the County
will receive much-needed upgrades to replace legacy telephone service with Voice over IP (VoIP) and
increase bandwidth capacity to support mounting demand for data, video, and voice transfer.
This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract be referred to the Technology and Innovation Committee. The motion carried.

17-5097
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Other Part(ies): JULIE, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
Goods or Services: Fiber optic locate and notification services
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: In effect until terminated by the County
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Summary:

The Bureau of Technology requests Board authorization to enter into a membership
84

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

agreement with JULIE, Inc., a corporation created pursuant to the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage
Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/). Membership services include notification to contractors and private
citizens of County-owned fiber locations to prevent damage from blind excavation, and notification to
members of planned and emergency excavations.
This agreement has been reviewed and approved by the Cook County State’s Attorney.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

17-5108
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: System Solutions, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Standard Specification Hardware (Lot A) and Hardware Maintenance (Lot C )
Original Contract Period: 7/1/2012 - 6/30/2015, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $13,189,457.10 (Lot A); $4,424,976.56 (Lot C)
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/5/2012, $13,189,457.10 (Lot A); ($1,424,976.56 (Lot
C)
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/8/2014, $1,630,000.00 (Lot C); 4/13/2016
$840,000.00 (Lot C), and 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2017 (Lot A & Lot C); 6/28/17 $530,000.00 (Lot C), 7/1/2017 6/30/2018 (Lot A)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/6/2015, 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2016
This Increase Requested: $3,100,000.00 (Lot A)
85

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2017 $1,150,780.00, FY 2018 $1,949,220.00

September 13, 2017

Accounts:
FY17:
Office of the Chief Judge $450,000.00: 11569.1310.17825.560226, Project ID: 21164
Office of the Chief Judge $13,000.00: 11569.1310.17825.560226, Project ID: 21165
Office of the Chief Judge $40,780.00: 11569.1310.17825.560226, Project ID: 21166
Bureau of Technology $620,000.00: 11569.1009.17825.560227, Project ID: 21411
Treasurer $27,000.00: 11856.1060.20415.560226, Project ID: 22368
FY18:
Clerk of the Circuit Court $1,250,000.00

Office of the Chief Judge $396,220.00
Bureau of Technology $275,000.00
Treasurer $28,000.00
Contract Number(s): 11-84-167A and 11-84-167C
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase accommodates standard specification hardware purchases by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court, Bureau of Technology, Office of the Chief Judge, and Treasurer. Utilization of the existing
contract will allow completion and publication of a new replacement RFP.
These contracts were awarded through a competitive reverse auction procedure in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. System Solutions, Inc was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
86

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

ADULT PROBATION

17-4338
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Adult Probation and Social Service Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Deer Rehabilitation Services, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Domestic Violence Partner Abuse Intervention Counseling
Original Contract Period: 6/1/2013 - 5/31/2016, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 6/1/2017 - 5/31/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$395,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/8/2013, $265,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/20/2016, $130,000.00;
6/1/2016 - 5/31/2017
This Increase Requested:

N/A

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $65,000.00, FY 2018 $65,000.00; paid with probation and supervision
fees collected from probationers.
Accounts: 11326-520835 Professional Services
Contract Number(s): 13-88-081G
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
87

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Summary: This second of two (2) one (1) year renewal options will allow the Adult Probation and Social
Services Departments to continue to provide specialized treatment services ordered by the court for adult
domestic violence offenders who are supervised by the Circuit Court’s two adult probation departments,
the Adult Probation Department and the Social Services Department. Services provided under the contract
include assessments and individual and group counseling as deemed appropriate, billed to Cook County
at prescribed hourly rates. There are more than 2,500 probationers under court supervision for domestic
violence offenses. This contract is part of a service network encompassing all of Cook County that
provides services to offenders in their own communities.
This contract was awarded through the Request for Proposal (RFP) process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Deer Rehabilitation Services was awarded based on established evaluation
criteria.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

Commissioner Deer voted “present”.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY

17-3615
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Epperson Consulting, Flossmoor, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Evaluation services for Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) Access to Community
Treatment Court (ACT) and the ARI HOPE Court
Original Contract Period: 12/1/2014 - 6/30/2015 with one (1) one (1)-year renewal
88

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/1/2017 - 6/30/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $50,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement):

11/25/2014, $35,000.00

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/13/2016, 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2017
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/15/2015, 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2016,
$15,000
This Increase Requested: NA
Potential Fiscal Impact: NA
Accounts: NA
Contract Number(s): 1453-13969
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: A time-only contract extension is requested for Epperson Consulting to provide independent,
process and outcome evaluation services for the ACT Court and the ARI HOPE Court. No increase is
requested with this extension because unexpended funds remain on the contract from a prior extension.
This extension is in conjunction with a new grant expected to be received from the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority for the same corresponding one year period as the contract, 7/1/2017, to 6/30/2018.
Grant-funded program services under contract 1453-13969, which began in late 2014, are scheduled to
expire on 6/30/2017.
The ACT and ARI HOPE courts are post-plea specialty courts for certain offenders. The ACT Court is a
drug court probation program that operates in the Circuit Court Criminal Division. Its goal is to help certain
nonviolent, felony criminal offenders suffering from substance abuse problems from becoming repeat
offenders and being incarcerated. It has a current annual capacity of 170 individuals. The Circuit Court’s
ARI HOPE Court is a structured probation program that operates in the Circuit Court’s Municipal District
One (City of Chicago). The ARI HOPE judge and team work to give offenders the support and services
they need to complete their probation sentence and move toward productive lives. It has a current annual
capacity of 300 individuals.
This contract was originally awarded as a sole source procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the
Cook County Procurement Code.
89

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-3688
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Ace Coffee Bar, Inc., Streamwood, Illinois (n/k/a/ Compass Group USA, Inc. dba Canteen
Vending Services)
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Cafeteria Operation and Impaneled Jury Food Service at the George N.
Leighton Criminal Division Courthouse
Original Contract Period: 8/17/2014 - 8/16/2017, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 8/17/2017 - 8/16/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $962,839.97
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/21/2014, $943,780.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/23/2015, $19,059.97
This Increase Requested: $370,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $107,916.66, FY 2018 $262,083.34
Accounts: 310-223 (520210)
Contract Number(s): 1353-13213
90

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and full WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2) one-year renewal options will allow the Office of the Chief
Judge to continue to operate the cafeteria at the Criminal Courts Administration Building. The cafeteria
provides services to the general public and impaneled jurors. The County receives a monthly license fee
and this renewal reflects a decrease from $6,190.30 to $3,000.00 based upon a reduction in space provide
to the vendor.
This contract was awarded through competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. ACE Coffee Bar, Inc. was the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-3977
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Action: Payment Approval
Payee: Nestle Waters North America, Louisville Kentucky
Good(s) or Service(s): Five (5) Gallon Bottled Water
Fiscal Impact: $14,178.34
Accounts: 310-350
Contract Number(s): 1430-14172
Summary: The Office of Chief Judge worked with the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer to
release small order bid for bottled water services in anticipation of a Nestle contract expiring in February
2017. However, no bidders responded to two open solicitations on these services.
91

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

The Office of the Chief Judge requests payment for services from 2/13/2017 - 5/17/2017, in the amount of
$14,178.34. A new County-wide contract for bottle water has been awarded.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Payment
Approval be approved. The motion carried.

17-4453
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantee: Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantor: The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The Cook County Suburban Municipal Districts Drug Court Service Enhancement Program
will build the County’s capacity to help drug-addicted program participants in three suburban drug
treatment courts in Cook County.
Grant Amount: $324,811.00
Grant Period: 9/30/2017 - 9/29/2018
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: NA
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all the requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on
Cook County, if any.
Summary: The Cook County Suburban Municipal Districts Drug Court Service Enhancement Program
(DCSEP) will build the court’s capacity to help program participants as follows: assess needs, offer
practical recovery supports, reduce financial and access barriers to treatment through integration of
92

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

clinical case management with health literacy and health insurance assistance, and strengthen client
outcomes through targeted evidence-based medication-assisted and residential treatment services. The
program will be implemented in three suburban drug treatment courts in Cook County: 1) the Fourth
Municipal District (Maywood), 2) the Fifth Municipal District (Bridgeview), and 3) the Sixth Municipal
District (Markham).
The purpose of the Suburban Municipal Districts DCSEP is to increase the number of suburban drug
court participants who graduate successfully from the program and achieve stable recovery and affect the
long-term health and safety needs of these individuals and their communities. Participants in the program
will include adult men and women (age 18 and older) who are arrested/charged with new non-violent,
drug-related felony offenses and are diagnosed with substance use disorders. It is anticipated that the
majority of participants will be from minority communities. This population is being targeted in part
because of the rise of heroin-related drug offenses in suburban Cook County.
Project funds will be dedicated mostly for community-based case management and treatment services.
The remainder will be used for staff, fringe benefits, supplies, training and travel.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Grant
Award be approved. The motion carried.

17-4702
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Grantee: Office of the Chief Judge
Grantor: SAMHSA Department of Health and Human Services
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: Expand and enhance the Circuit Court of Cook County’s Rehabilitation Alternative Probation
(RAP) Drug Court Program for men and the Women’s Rehabilitation Alternative Probation (WRAP) Drug
Court Program for women.
Grant Amount: $324,905.00
Grant Period: 9/30/2017-9/29/2018
93

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: Not applicable
Concurrences:
Budget and Management Services has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact
on Cook County, if any.
Summary: The Circuit Court of Cook County will use this second year grant award from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services to continue efforts to expand and enhance the Rehabilitation
Alternative Probation (RAP) Drug Court Program for men and the Women’s Rehabilitation Alternative
Probation (WRAP) Drug Court Program for women. The court’s goal is to increase the number and
percentage of participants who achieve stable recovery and graduate successfully from the programs. To
achieve this goal, the court will expand and expedite client access to community-based residential
substance abuse treatments, incorporate new offender service elements, such as cognitive behavioral
therapies and medication treatments, and expand trauma support services.
The Circuit Court of Cook County established the RAP Drug Court Program for men in 1998 and the
WRAP program in 2001 to divert individuals with substance use disorders into treatment. The
RAP/WRAP Drug Court Program is currently one of the largest drug courts in Illinois, with approximately
200 participants supervised each year.
Grant funds will be used to partially fund the salary and fringe benefits of a program research associate,
as well as to provide funds for community treatment services, supplies, training and travel and indirect
costs. Project funds will be available for an additional year if satisfactory progress is demonstrated.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Grant
Award be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUVENILE PROBATION AND COURT SERVICES

17-4659
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
94

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Department(s): Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Aunt Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc., Olympia Fields, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Evening Reporting Centers Program and Pre-trial Services
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2013-9/30/2016, with two (2), one (1)-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 10/1/2017-9/30/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $6,960,900.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/11/13, $5,192,160.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/14/16, $1,768,740.00, 10/1/2016 - 9/30/2017
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,962,329.30
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $179,393.30, FY 2018 $1,782,936.00
Accounts: 326-298
Contract Number(s): 13-23-001
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBEWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2) one year renewal options the Juvenile Probation and
Court Services Department to continue to receive services for the operation of the Evening Reporting
Centers Program and Pre-Trial Services, which are key components of the Circuit Court’s Juvenile
Detention Alternative Initiatives.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. Aunt Martha’s Youth Service Center, Inc. was selected based on established
evaluation criteria.
_________________________________
95

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUVENILE TEMPORARY DETENTION CENTER

17-3122
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC), Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Ergometrics and Applied Personnel Research, Inc., Lynnwood, Washington
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Licenses and Testing Material Services
Original Contract Period: 9/1/2015 - 8/31/2016 with one (1) year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/1/2017 - 8/31/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $16,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/11/2015, $16,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/5/2016, 9/1/2016 - 8/31/2017
This Increase Requested: $7,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $1,700.00, FY 2018 $5,300.00
Accounts: 1440-260
Contract Number(s): 1550-14582
96

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Concurrences:
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This extension and increase will allow the JTDC to use the personnel software application
license, testing material, and electronic grade results, which is used to screen employment applications.
The products are used primarily for the positions of youth development specialist and security specialist.
The tests include the JTDC ECOM, PROMOTE and IMPACT employment tests.
This contract was awarded as a sole source procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County
Procurement Code.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-3815
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, Circuit Court of Cook County
Action: Payment
Payee: Chicago Uniform, Chicago, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Bullet-proof Ballistic Vests
Fiscal Impact: $3,100.00
Accounts: 1440-189
Contract Number(s): N/A
Summary: A provision within the Collective Bargaining Agreement with Teamster’s Local 700 requires
the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center to provide bullet-proof ballistic vests to security specialists who
transport residents to various locations (e.g. - court and hospital) throughout Cook County and the State of
Illinois. Due to safety concerns, the JTDC purchased the vests on an expedited basis and at a cost which
slightly exceeded expectations.
_________________________________
97

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Payment
Approval be approved. The motion carried.

17-5113
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Black Dog Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Meat Products
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2014 - 9/30/2016
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 10/1/2017 - 12/31/2017
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$1,412,062.40

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/14/2014, $1,412,062.40
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/20/2016, 10/1/2016 - 9/30/2017
This Increase Requested:

N/A

Potential Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: 1440-310
Contract Number(s): 1425-13704
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
98

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Summary: This three month time extension will allow the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC)
to continue to receive meat products for the food service operation at the JTDC, while the bidding process
is completed for a new contract.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Black Dog Corporation was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.
Commissioner Gainer voted “present”.
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT

17-2239
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court, THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook
County,AMY CAMPANELLI, Public Defender of Cook County, TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge,
Circuit Court of Cook County, KIMBERLY FOXX, Cook County State’s Attorney, JOSEPH BERRIOS,
Cook County Assessor
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court, Department of Corrections, Law Office of the Public
Defender, Adult Probation Department, Office of the State’s Attorney, Office of the Assessor
Vendor: Paper Solutions, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Printing and Manufacturing of Court File Jackets and Folders
Original Contract Period: 8/16/2015 - 8/15/2017, with two (2), one (1)-year renewal options.
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 8/16/2017 - 8/15/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,456,855.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/29/2015, $1,456,855.00
99

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $756,992.75
Potential Fiscal Impact:
FY2017: $78,679.45; FY2018: $678,313.30
Clerk of the Circuit Court FY2017: $0.00; FY2018: $486,605.25,
Department of Corrections FY2017: $22,791.45; FY2018: $31,908.05,
Law Office of the Public Defender FY2017: $0.00; FY2018: $7,000.00,
Adult Probation Department FY2017: $0.00; FY2018: $40,000.00,
Office of the State’s Attorney FY2017: $25,000.00; FY2018: $75,000.00,
Office of the Assessor FY2017: $30,888.00; FY2018: $37,800.00
Accounts:
Clerk of the Circuit Court (335-240)
Department of Corrections (239-333)
Law Office of the Public Defender (260-350)
Adult Probation Department (532-240)
Office of the State’s Attorney (250-240)
Office of the Assessor (040-240)
Contract Number(s): 1535-14434
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MBE and WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow continued production
of court file jackets for the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and other County Agencies.
This contract was awarded through competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. Paper Solutions was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

100

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4260
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Action: Payment Approval
Payee: Ready Refresh By Nestle, Louisville, Kentucky
Good(s) or Service(s): Bottled Drinking Water
Fiscal Impact: $5,049.83
Accounts: 335-350
Contract Number(s): N/A
Summary: The vendor provided services to the Clerk of the Circuit Court. We are requesting payment to
be made to the vender for services rendered to the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
The services were needed until the Cook County Countywide bottle drinking water contract was
awarded. We recently received the request for payment for the services rendered, totaling $5,049.83 and
would like to move forward at this time for payment. Due to Direct Pay limit the Clerk’s office would
exceed the $5,000 direct pay amount.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Payment
Approval be approved. The motion carried.
17-4889
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Clerk of the Circuit Court
Request: Transfer of Funds within Account 11100.1335
Reason: Funds are needed in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Accounts in order to make adequate funds
101

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

available to: (a) install video monitors on the 11th and 22nd floors at Daley Center, (b) pay for
Photography and Videography Services, (c) pay for employee blazers, (d) pay the Case Management
System Vendor’s employees for travel reimbursements incurred as these costs cannot be paid from
capital funds, and pay for Employment/Labor Relations Consulting Services.
From Account(s): (a)11100-550010 (Rental of Office Equipment), $10,000.00; 11100-520260 (Postage),
$2,000.00; 11100-520490 (Graphics and Reproduction Services), $8,000.00; 11100-540130 (Maintenance
and Repair of Office Equipment), $2,250.00; (b) 11100-520260 (Postage), $9,400; (c) 11100-550010
(Rental of Office Equipment), $10,000.00; 11100-520260 (Postage),$5,000; (d) 11100-520260 (Postage),
$100,000; and (e) 11100-520260 (Postage), $163,000
To Account(s): (a)11100-520830 (Professional and Managerial Services), $22,250.00; (b) 11100-520490
(External Graphics and Reproduction Services), $9,400.00 (c) 11100-530105 (Wearing Apparel),
$15,000.00; (d) 11100-501838 (Transportation or Resident), $100,000.00; and (e) 11100-521044 (Legal
Fees), $163,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $309,650.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
(a) 7/3/2017; $10,005.00; $10,005.00
(b) 7/3/2017; $4,995.00; $4,995.00
(c) 6/16/2017; $0.00; $0.00
(d) 5/15/2017; $12,043.00; $16,278.60
(e) 3/31/2017; $41,500.00; $41,500.00
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
(a) Accounts 11100-550010, 11100-520260, 11100-520490, and 11100-540130 were identified for fund
transfers due to unanticipated reduction in mainframe maintenance and technical support costs, a
reduction in postage expenditure, a reduction in certified mailer envelopes expenditure, and a reduction in
cost for money counters and printer services, respectively.
(b) Account 11100-520260 was identified for the fund transfer as funds became available due to a
reduction in postage expenditure.
(c) Accounts 11100-550010 and 11100-520260 were identified for fund transfers due to unanticipated
102

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

reduction in mainframe maintenance and technical support costs as well as a reduction in postage
expenditure, respectively.
(d) In Account 11100-55010, funds became available due to unanticipated reduction in mainframe
maintenance and technical support costs.
(e) Account 11100-520260 was identified for the fund transfer as funds became available due to a
reduction in postage expenditure.
No other funds were considered as sources of the transferred funds.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in
the fiscal year.
All the accounts used for the transfers were initially appropriately budgeted but as the year unfolded:
(a) unobligated surplus developed in Account 11100-550010 due to unanticipated reduction in mainframe
maintenance and technical support costs; in Account 11100-520260 as a result of a reduction in postage
expenditure; in 11100-520490 due to a reduction in the expenditure on certified mailer envelopes; and in
Account 11100-540130 due to cost reduction in expenditure on money counters and printer services;
(b) unobligated funds developed in Account 11100-520260 as a result of a reduction in postage
expenditure; (c) unobligated funds developed in Accounts 1100-5500010 and 11100-520260 due to
unanticipated reduction in mainframe maintenance and technical support costs and a reduction in postage
expenditure, respectively;

(d) unobligated funds developed in Account 11100-520260 as a result of a reduction in postage
expenditure.
(e) unobligated funds developed in Account 11100-520260 as a result of a reduction in postage
expenditure;
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that the Transfer
103

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

of Funds be deferred. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK
17-4801
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): County Clerk
Action: Payment of outstanding invoice
Payee: JJ Collins Sons, Inc., Carol Stream, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Printing and Mailing of Voter Information
Fiscal Impact: $11,570.16
Accounts: 524-240 External Graphics and Reproduction Services
Contract Number(s): 1335-13044
Summary: The County Clerk’s Office is requesting approval of a payment in the amount of $11,570.16
to JJ Collins Sons, Inc., the vendor for printing and mailing of voter information. The invoice reflects an
amount over the original contract value due to the redesign of the household mailers which now display
location and candidates’ name like the sample ballots. The additional details along with the change in the
size of the mailers increased the printing costs.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Payment
Approval be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS

104

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-3324
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Department of Corrections
Vendor: Progressive Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Detainee Tennis Shoes
Original Contract Period: 11/26/2014 - 11/25/2016, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 11/26/2017 -11/25/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $966,735.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/19/2014, $644,490.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/14/2016, 11/26/2016-11/25/2017, $322,245.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $322,245.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2018 $322,245.00
Accounts: 239-320
Contract Number(s): 1411-13972
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and a full MBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Cook County
Department of Corrections to continue to purchase detainee tennis shoes.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
105

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Procurement Code. Progressive Industries, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4505
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Department of Corrections
Vendor: Pyramid Enterprise Supplies, Solon, Ohio
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Smith and Wesson Handcuffs and Leg Irons
Original Contract Period: 11/26/2014 - 11/25/2016, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 11/26/2017 - 11/25/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $85,162.50
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/20/2014, $56,775.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/24/2016, $28,387.50,
11/26/2016 - 11/25/2017
This Increase Requested: $56,775.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2018, $56,775.00
Accounts: 239-333
Contract Number(s): 1411-14022
Concurrences:
106

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Cook County
Department of Corrections to continue to purchase Smith and Wesson Handcuffs and Leg Irons.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Pyramid Enterprise Supplies was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4804
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County,BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director,
Department of Facilities Management, TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook
County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): The Sheriff’s Department of Corrections and Court Services, Facilities Management,
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and Department of Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Quality & Excellence Pest Control, Inc., Lansing, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Pest Control Services
Contract Value: $488,816.00
Contract period: 9/26/2017 - 9/25/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $39,134.66 FY 2018 $229,638.96 and
FY 2019 $220,042.38
DOC; FY2017 $28,538.00, FY2018 $156,959.00, FY 2019 $156,959.00
JTDC; FY 2017 $1,000.00, FY 2018 $8,500.00, FY 2019 $8,500.00
FACILITIES; FY 2017 $9,596.66 FY 2018 $57,579.96, FY 2019 $47,983.38
107

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

TRANSPORTATION; FY 2018 $6,600.00, FY 2019 $6,600.00
Accounts: 239-235, 440-235, 200-235 and 501-461
Contract Number(s): 1784-16393
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Sheriff’s Office Department of Correction and Court Services, Facilities Management,
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and Department of Transportation and Highways request
authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Quality &
Excellence Pest Control, Inc., to provide pest control services.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County’s Procurement Code.
Quality & Excellence Pest Control, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible vendor.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.

17-4833
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): The Sheriff’s Department of Corrections, Department of Facilities Management,
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and the Medical Examiner’s Office
Vendor: Bob Barker Company, Inc., Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Hygiene Supplies
Contract Value: $652,239.28
Contract period: 10/3/2017 - 10/2/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
108

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017; $31,217.75, FY 2018; $296,345.19 and FY 2019;
$324,676.34
DOC - FY 2018 $ 186,075.74 and FY 2019 $186,075.74
Facilities - FY 2017; $3,355.00, FY 2018; $24,156.00 and FY 2019; $24,424.40
JTDC- FY 2017; $ 27,862.75, FY 2018; $83,388.25.and FY 2019; $ 111,451.00
Medical Examiner - FY 2018; $2,725.20 and FY2019; $2,725.20
Accounts: (239-330), (200-330), (440-330) and (259-330)
Contract Number(s): 1712-16491
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBEWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will allow the Sheriff’s Department of Corrections, Department of Facilities
Management, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and the Medical Examiner’s Office to receive Hygiene
Supplies. The supplies provided will enable the Department of Corrections and Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center to provide personal care products to inmates as well as allow the Department
of
Facilities Management and Medical Examiner to acquire soap and other hygiene supplies.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Bob Barker Company, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

17-4190
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
109

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Other Part(ies): City of Blue Island (“Blue Island”), Blue Island, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the Cook County
Sheriff’s Office and the City of Blue Island.
Goods or Services: The Cook County Sheriff’s Office will provide 911 System dispatching/monitoring
services for the City of Blue Island twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 11/1/2017 and continue for five (5) years
Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Summary: Authorization for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the City of Blue Island to enter into
an Intergovernmental Agreement for 911 System dispatching/monitoring services for the Blue Island
Police Department twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Blue Island Police Department dispatch
will be done on a Cook County 800 mhz frequency.
City of Blue Island agrees to reimburse the Cook County Sheriff’s Office quarterly for all personnel and
operational costs associated with this IGA, including but not limited to costs associated with any additional
positions necessary for performance of services (“Sheriff’s Reimbursement). Reimbursement shall take
place in accordance with the following schedule, with any partial year prorated based on the number of
days the IGA has been in effect for that year:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.

1st year of service -$364,448.64
2nd year of service -$377,492.77
3rd year of services -$391,627.40
4th year of service -$406,249.98
5th year of service -$422,513.82.

Sheriff will send Blue Island and invoice quarterly. Payment to Sheriff will be due within ninety (90) days
of receipt of invoice.
_________________________________

110

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.

17-4732
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Ray O’Herron Co., Inc., Danville, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Ammunition
Contract Value: $1,587,612.00
Contract period: 9/20/2017 - 9/19/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $50,000.00, FY 2018 $529,203.76, FY 2019
$529,203.76, FY 2020 $479,204.48
Accounts: 214-333
Contract Number(s): 1712-16515
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The approval of this contract will supply the Sheriff’s Training Institute with the necessary
ammunition for new recruit officers as well as in-service qualification training for current officers.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Ray O’Herron Co., Inc. was the lowest, responsive bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.
111

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

17-5054
Presented by: KIMBERLY FOXX, Cook County State’s Attorney
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor of the State of Illinois
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: This funding will enable the State’s Attorney’s Office to maintain assistant state’s attorney
positions in the Criminal Appeals Division that are dedicated to working on criminal appeals in Cook
County.
Grant Amount: $2,000,000.00
Grant Period: 9/1/2017- 6/30/2018
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all the requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on
Cook County, if any.
Summary: The State’s Attorney’s Office has received funding from the Illinois Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor for consecutive years beginning in 2003; with 2016 being the last year to receive. The purpose
of these funds is to staff the Criminal Appeals Division at a level that better balances staffing between
defense attorneys working on criminal appeals in Cook County and the number of assistant state’s attorneys
responding to those briefs. This grant does not require a match contribution.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Grant Award
approved. The motion carried.
112

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU

17-4692
Presented by: CHAKA M. PATTERSON, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Request: Amend to a previously approved settlement item on the 7/19/2017 Finance Agenda and
County Board Agenda of the same date to change the Settlement Amount
Item Number: 17-4283
Fiscal Impact: $N/A
Account(s): N/A
Original Text of Item:
Case: Darius Dotson v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 5944
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Jannette Dotson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00 $1,000.00
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Previously
Approved Item Amendment be approved, as amended. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER

17-4538
113

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Presented by: MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Treasurer
Vendor: JJ Collins Sons Inc., Woodridge, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Printing, Tax Bill Paper, Envelopes, Brochures, Folding and Inserting for the
Billing and Collection of Tax Years 2017 and 2018 Property Taxes
Contract Value: $1,097,508.00
Contract period: 9/13/2017 - 9/12/2019, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2018 $548,754.00, FY 2019 $548,754.00
Accounts: 534-240 External Graphics and Reproduction Services
Contract Number(s): 1730-16580
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MBE and full WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will allow the Treasurer’s Office to fulfill its obligation to print and mail the first
and second installment property tax bills for Tax Years 2017 and 2018.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
J.J. Collins Sons, Inc. was the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract be
approved. The motion carried.

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
114

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
17-3919
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 2nd Quarter of 2017
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Report be received and filed. The motion carried.

17-4243
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Revenue Solutions, Inc., Pembroke, Massachusetts
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Integrated Home Rule Tax Processing System
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2015 - 9/30/2020 with five (5) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
115

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $11,663,946.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/9/2015, $10,971,946.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/03/2016, $692,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $499,100.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2017 $403,600, FY 2018 $95,500

Accounts: Project #: 21411; Fund #: 11569; Award# 10095
Contract Number(s): 1518-14681
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MWBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Summary: In September, 2015, this Board approved Contract No. 1518-14681 with Revenue Solutions,
Inc. to implement an Integrated Tax Processing System (ITSP). The Bureau of Technology now seeks
Board approval of an amendment to the ITSP contract to incorporate additional business processes into the
system.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code. Revenue Solutions, Inc. was previously awarded a contract through a competitive
Request for Proposal (RFP) process by the State of Rhode Island. Cook County wishes to leverage this
procurement effort.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Frtichey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract Amendment be deferred. The motion carried.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2017
116

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4298
Presented by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Eileen J. Dordek, LCSW
Position: 10th District Women’s Commission
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is appointed or qualified.
_________________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that the
Appointment be approved. The motion carried.

17-4297
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Dr. Janette C. Wilson Howard
Position: At large Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is approved and qualified.
Note: Dr. Wilson and Ms. Bernarda Wong will complete the terms of Dr. Ann Kalayil & Dr. Harvette
Gray
_________________________________
117

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that the
Appointment be approved. The motion carried.

17-3674
ORDINANCE

Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LUIS ARROYO JR,
GREGG GOSLIN AND DEBORAH SIMS, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

ESTABLISHING LIMITATION OF UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM USAGE
ON COUNTY PROPERTY

WHEREAS, use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), including drones, has exponentially increased and
is becoming more common in both commercial and private contexts; and
WHEREAS, increased UAS use has given rise to emerging conflicts and challenges requiring additional
guidance as to responsible and lawful operation thereof; and
WHEREAS, given their ability to carry and smuggle drugs, weapons or other contraband, UAS usage is
increasingly presenting safety concerns for the operations of jails and prisons nationally, including Cook
County Jail; and
WHEREAS, UAS can also be used to surreptitiously take photographs and video footage, which can create
a privacy, safety or security threat at other county property such as county courthouses and health system
facilities.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
58 Offenses and Miscellaneous Offenses, Article II Offenses Involving Property Rights, Section 58-48 of
the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 58-48. Limitation of Unmanned Aerial System Usage on County Property.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
118

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Agency shall mean any County agency that is the authorized custodian of County property.
Unmanned Aerial System or UAS shall mean an unmanned aerial vehicle or drone that is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within the aircraft.
Property shall mean any land, building or facility owned or leased by Cook County.
(a)
No person shall, at any time, fly any form of UAS on County property unless expressly
authorized by the Agency that is the custodian of said property. Any person violating the provisions of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of $2,500.00 for each offense and shall be adjudicated pursuant to Chapter
2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
(b)
Confiscation; seizure. Whenever an Agency or any of its duly authorized representatives
shall discover any UAS used in violation of this section on County property, they are hereby authorized
and empowered forthwith to confiscate; seize and take possession of such UAS and it shall thereupon be
deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.
(c)
Destruction; redemption. If it is determined at an administrative hearing, by a
preponderance of evidence, that the seized UAS was not operated in violation of this section, such UAS
may be claimed by its owner without charge within 7 days of such determination. In the event that the UAS
remains unclaimed after such period, the Agency shall cause the seized UAS to be destroyed.
(d)
Operations Authorized by the State of Illinois - Exception. Notwithstanding the
prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of an
unmanned aerial system (UAS) by a law enforcement agency in accordance with Section 15 of the Freedom
from Drone Surveillance Act, codified at 725 ILCS 167/1, et seq., or its successor provision.
(e)
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, subdivision or other part of this ordinance or
its applications shall be adjudged by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional,
such order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or otherwise invalidate the remainder of this ordinance
which shall remain in full force and effect except as limited by such order or judgment.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 13th of September 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
____________________________

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that the
119

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Ordinance be approved. The motion carried.

FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING SEPTEMBER 13, 2017

COURT ORDERS
APPELLATE CASES

17-4430
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,387.50
Case Name: In the Interest of Maniya P., Monica H.
Trial Court No(s): 13JA175, 13JA176
Appellate Court No(s): 1-17-0424

17-4490
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $367.50
Case Name: In the Interest of Zenea Y., Aiden Y.
Trial Court No(s): 14JA482, 15JA36
Appellate Court No(s): 1-17-0425

17-4495
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $6,318.35
Case Name: In re Tyrenzo K., Tyeisha K., Sariah A.
Trial Court No(s): 15JA467, 15JA468, 15JA469
Appellate Court No(s): 16-1731

120

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4496
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $6,139.74
Case Name: In re Jamari R.
Trial Court No(s): 07JA386
Appellate Court No(s): 16-0850

17-4510
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,531.25
Case Name: In re Kaniyah W., Kendall W. Kentrell W, Kention W., (minors)
Trial Court No(s): 12JA1009, 12JA1010, 12JA1011, 12JA1012
Appellate Court No(s): 1-17-0428

17-4511
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,675.00
Case Name: In re Rhiannon C, (minor)
Trial Court No(s): 14JA1288
Appellate Court No(s): 1-16-3315, 1-17-0060

17-4601
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,137.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Case Name: In Re Cynthiana M. (minor)
Trial Court No (s): 15JA0681
121

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Appellate Court No(s): 1-16-3262, 1-16-3264

17-4656
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,887.50
Case Name: In the Interest of Alondra R., Melissa R., Alejandra R.
Trial Court No(s): 15JA656, 15JA657, 15JA658
Appellate Court No(s): 1-17-0379

17-4865
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,593.19
Case Name: In re I. R., M. R., T. R.
Trial Court No(s): 15JA1262, 12JA1263, 12JA1264
Appellate Court No(s): 1-16-2552

17-4866
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,452.28
Case Name: In re Stephanie S., Stephen S.
Trial Court No(s): 15JA815, 15JA816
Appellate Court No(s): 1-16-1898

CRIMINAL DIVISION
17-4248
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Karla Fiaoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,375.00
Services rendered for court appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
122

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name of respondent: LaDarius Harris
Case No. 14CR22241-01

17-4355
Attorney/Payee: Barry M. Leavitt, Psy.D.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $4,493.89
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Francisco Olivares-Hernandez
Case No(s): 15CR12143
17-4380
Payee: Lesley Kane
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,475.64
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondents:
expert witness
Name of respondent: Francisco Olivares-Hernandez
Case No: 15CR12143
17-4462
Attorney/Payee: Dena M. Singer
Presenter: Dena M. Singer
Fees: $7,663.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Ivory
Case No(s): 14CR2054501

17-4465
Attorney/Payee: Joseph P. Kennelly Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $8,461.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Travis Caguana
123

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 11CR11239-01, 11CR10280-02
17-4466
Attorney/Payee: Joseph P. Kennelly Attorney
Presenter: same
Fees: $1,975.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shawn Randall
Case No(s): 15CR13171
17-4493
Attorney/Payee: Sabra Ebersole
Presenter: Same
Fees: $5,968.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Clifton Lemon, Sr.
Case No(s):13CR1334905

17-4529
Attorney/Payee: Stephen F. Potts
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,306.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kirk Haugen
Case No(s): 10CR80014
17-4530
Attorney/Payee: Stephen F. Potts
Presenter: same
Fees: $3,243.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mark Lindsey
Case No(s): 13CR80007
17-4531
124

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Stephen F. Potts
Presenter: same
Fees: $668.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mark Melcher
Case No(s): 10CR80011

17-4532
Attorney/Payee: Stephen F. Potts
Presenter: Same
Fees: $468.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Leonardo Simmons
Case No(s): 01CR80005
17-4548
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Robert Seals
Case No(s): 16CR9384, 17CR0946, 17CR2214

17-4556
Attorney/Payee: Independent Forensics
Presenter: Susan Ritacca Law Office
Fees: $3,788.34
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert witness
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shawn Rashidi
Case No(s): 15CR1091

17-4574
125

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Plainfield Forensic Psychological Services
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,140.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Zachary Hatter
Case No(s): 10CR80010

17-4575
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Lesley Kane
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $3,135.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jonathan Byrd
Case No(s): 10CR80006

17-4576
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Luis Rosell
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $2,470.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Timothy Bell
Case No(s): 06CR80007

17-4577
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Luis Rosell
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $3,781.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rex Hulbert
Case No(s): 05CR80003

126

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4589
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $3,325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Hughes
Case No(s): 10CR80013

17-4590
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $4,674.35
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Bashiro Evans
Case No(s): 14CR80009

17-4591
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $3,135.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Horne
Case No(s): 11CR80021

17-4592
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Lesley Kane
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,900.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tommy Greenfield
Case No(s): 08CR80005
127

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4641
Attorney /Payee: Scarline Jerome-Kon
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,180.00
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert witness
Name(s) of respondent(s): Leo McGuinn
Case No(s): 2017COMH2228, 2017COMH2227
17-4683
Attorney/Payee: Geoffrey R. Loftus
Presenter: Attorney Michael Petro
Fees: $7,815.12
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert witness
Name(s) of respondent: Victor Perez
Case No(s): 15CR3874

17-4709
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Karla Fiaoni
Presenter: Attorney Karla Fiaoni
Fees: $6,250.00
Services rendered for court appointed representation of indigent respondent
legal representation
Name of respondent: Darrick Williams
Case No. 14CR14000
17-4741
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Karla Fiaoni
Presenter: Karla Fiaoni
Fees: $3,625.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Junius Warren
Case No. 16CR10808-03
A motion to approve 17-4741 passed.

128

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4828
Attorney/Payee: Allan R. Sincox
Presenter: Same
Fees: $4,872.79
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dionell Payne
Case No(s): 12CR20806

17-4829
Attorney/Payee: Alice Washington
Presenter: Allan R. Sincox
Fees: $3,298.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dionell Payne
Case No(s): 12CR20806

17-4846
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,675.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Hughes
Case No(s): 10CR80013

17-4847
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,865.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Horne
Case No(s): 11CR80021
129

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4848
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Brian Abbott
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,836.35
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): expert fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Stephen Mislich
Case No(s): 98CR80010
17-4879
Attorney/Payee: Richard Albanese
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,562.50
Service Rendered for court appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Steven Stevenson
Case No(s): 17DV71305

17-4895
Attorney/Payee: Glasgow & Olsson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $93.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Philippas
Case No(s): 16ACC0094

17-4896
Attorney/Payee: Glasgow & Olsson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $131.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Philippas
Case No(s): 17ACC0072
17-4920
130

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Tony Thedford
Presenter: Same
Fees: $15,360.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joey Jones
Case No(s): 14CR7806

17-4929
Attorney/Payee: Michael A. Jarard
Presenter: Michael A. Jarard
Fees: $3,750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Crystal McKire
Case No(s): 13CR21040-01

17-4985
Attorney/Payee: George E. Becker
Presenter: Same
Fees: $637.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cornell Dawson, Ulysses Polk
Case No(s): 13CR13349-01, 13CR13349-04

17-4986
Attorney/Payee: George E. Becker
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cornell Dawson, Ulysses Polk
Case No(s): 13CR13349-01, 13CR13349-04

17-4987
131

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: George E. Becker
Presenter: Same
Fees: $887.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cornell Dawson, Ulysses Polk
Case No(s): 13CR13349-01, 13CR13349-04

DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION

17-4901
Attorney/Payee: Rotman & Rotman, Ltd.
Presenter: Michael H. Rotman
Fees: $825.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent: E. Lopez
Case No: 2014D080636

17-4980
Attorney/Payee: Matthew A. Ingram, Esq.
Presenter: same
Fees: $632.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): F. Epstein
Case No(s): 05D331058

CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION

17-4120
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
132

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $431.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Purches, D. McAlister, D. Purches (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Purches, D. McAlister, D. Purches (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA244, 14JA405, 14JA406

17-4191
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $222.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Quintalia Boyd (mother)
In Re: C. Miles, C. Miles (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA056, 13JA057

17-4216
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): John Brady (father)
In Re: M. Brady (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA0395

17-4217
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Taneil Curtis (mother)
In Re: P. Bentley (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA00085
133

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4218
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $425.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jose Medina (father)
In Re: J. Medina, J. Medina (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1239, 14JA1240
17-4219
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Mullins (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Mullins (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA0467
17-4220
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,068.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mark Vcherashansky (father)
In Re: N. Vcherashansky, B. Vcherashansky (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA0055, 14JA1058
17-4221
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,137.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Alphonso Hall (father)
In Re: S. Hall (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00850
134

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4222
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $306.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jamal Gray (father)
In Re: M. Watkins-Gray, J. Watkins-Gray (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA0242, 16JA0243
17-4223
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Robert Cannon (father)
In Re: I. Cannon (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA00455
17-4224
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $740.90
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jonathan Cocroft (father)
In Re: J. Cocroft, J. Cocroft, J. Cocroft (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA0287, 15JA0702, 16JA0838

17-4228
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Adam Monterubio (father)
135

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: K. Monterubio (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA87
17-4229
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $437.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Martell Moore (father)
In Re: M. Haynes (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA675
17-4230
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ahmad Caldwell (father)
In Re: N. Womack (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA01248

17-4232
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $265.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondents(s): Edward Price (father)
In Re: M. Price (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1420
17-4233
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $412.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
136

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Chanice Houston (mother)
In Re: M. Lee, Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA239
17-4285
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,062.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tyrone Weeks (father)
In Re: T. Weeks (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1184

17-4286
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Stanley Garner (father)
In Re: S. Garner, S. Watkins (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA1097, 11JA629
17-4288
Attorney/Payee: Sabra Ebersole
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,059.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dinishia Matthews (mother)
In Re: Y. Spires, Z. Spires, J. Newman, J. Newman, J. Newman, D. Mathews
(minors)
Case No(s): 16JA1085, 16JA1086, 16JA1087, 16JA1088, 16JA1089, 16JA1090
17-4289
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,060.00
137

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Price, J. Price (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Price, J. Price (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA455, 16JA462

17-4292
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kaleel Sample (father)
In Re: G. Marshall (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00084

17-4293
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $168.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Demarcus Williams, Anthony Alexander (fathers)
In Re: S. Murph, A. Alexander (minors)
Case No(s): 07JA01076, 07JA01079

17-4294
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $338.28
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joanne Foster (mother)
In Re: J. Foster, A. Duling (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA889, 13JA621

17-4296
138

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $130.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Carolyn Fells (mother)
In Re: A. Fells, A. Fells (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA17, 14JA1243
17-4300
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kathleen Moore (mother)
In Re: K. Newsome (minor)
Case No(s): 07JA00266
17-4305
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $400.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Davis, O. Tucker (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Davis, O. Tucker (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA859, 15JA1147

17-4307
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Isaac Allen
In Re: E. Allen, E. Allen, H. Kimble (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA16, 15JA17, 15JA18
139

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4308
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $ 275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Angelica Lopez
In Re: M. Sanchez, J. Lopez (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA1085, 12JA1225

17-4309
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,806.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): E. Correa (minor) GAL
In Re: E. Correa (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA746

17-4314
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $625.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dionte Thomas (father)
In re: M. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0231
17-4317
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Love, L. Francois, L. Luckett (minors) GAL
140

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: L. Love, L. Francois, L. Luckett (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00295, 15JA00296, 15JA00297

17-4318
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $437.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Richard Slepika (father)
In Re: R. Slepika (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA225

17-4319
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,512.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Breanna Haynes (mother)
In Re: B. Honey (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA1084
17-4320
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Dirkins, K. Ross, J. Banks, T. Holcomb, T.
Holcomb (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Dirkins, K. Ross, J. Banks, T. Holcomb, T. Holcomb (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA329, 14JA330, 14JA331, 14JA332, 14JA333
17-4321
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
141

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): LaJardine Sterling (mother)
In Re: C. Sterling, G. Brown, G. Brown (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA730, 14JA613, 14JA267

17-4322
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $547.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tiara Weatherspoon (mother)
In Re: P. Garrett, A. Garrett, B. Garrett, B. Garrett (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA773, 12JA774, 12JA775, 12JA776
17-4323
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $812.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Fortunate Rice (mother)
In Re: Z. Patterson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1221
17-4325
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christopher Robinson (father)
In Re: T. Winston (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA224

17-4326
142

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $200.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lee Dixon (father)
In Re: A. Dixon (minor)
Case No(s): 02JA344
17-4327
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $262.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Johnson, M. Johnson (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Johnson, M. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA82, 15JA83
17-4328
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $836.59
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Annie Irizarry (mother)
In Re: G. Oliver, M. Oliver, L. Colon (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA286, 15JA761, 15JA672

17-4329
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $525.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Janise Coleman (mother)
In Re: C. Hardy (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA692
17-4332
143

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Antonio Ray (father)
In Re: A. Stone-Ray (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA721
17-4333
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cody Ingram (father)
In Re: C. Ingram (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1071

17-4334
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $593.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Reynaldo Munoz (father)
In Re: S. Cruseno, A. Cruseno (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA932, 15JA933
17-4335
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $412.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Desmond Mayo (father)
In Re: D. Robinson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA810
144

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4336
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $931.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): B. Spires, J. Newman, L. Johnson, D. Davis
(fathers)
In Re: Y. Spires, Z. Spires, J. Newman, J. Newman, J. Newman, D. Mathews
(minors)
Case No(s): 16JA1085, 16JA1086, 16JA1087, 16JA1088, 16JA1089, 16JA1090

17-4346
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,100.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: K.Cassell (minor) GAL
In Re: K. Cassell (minor)
Case No(s):11JA981
17-4349
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $485.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Leonard Carson (father)
In Re: U. Carson (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA0608
17-4350
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,050.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Williams, R. Jones (minors) GAL
145

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: J. Williams, R. Jones (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1248

17-4352
Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $731.72
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rocky Faulkner (father)
In Re: R. Faulkner (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1128
17-4358
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Cobbs, N. Cobbs, S. Cobbs, S. Cobbs, A. Simmons,
J. Hopkins, M. Watkins (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Cobbs, N. Cobbs, S. Cobbs, S. Cobbs (minors)
Case No(s) 15JA1180, 15JA1181
17-4359
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $112.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Angela Tarrer
In Re: T. Burnett (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA00730

17-4361
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $268.75
146

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Deontae Charles (father)
In Re: D. Charles D. Charles (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA546, 16JA547
17-4365
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Vaval (minor) GAL
In Re: C. Vaval (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1408
17-4366
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Samairah Hall (mother)
In Re: A. Sanders, A. Hall (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA757, 15JA414

17-4381
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,437.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Devonte Honey (father)
In Re: B. Honey (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA1084
17-4382
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
147

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $1,775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anthony Pace (father)
In Re: S. Campbell (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA917
17-4383
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $637.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Currie (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Currie (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00747

17-4384
Attorney/Payee: Joseph G. Gebhart, Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees $562.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Alastar Ford (father)
In Re: B. Ford (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA846
17-4385
Attorney/Payee: Joseph G. Gebhart, Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees $337.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nashawn Legrone (father)
In Re: N. Legrone (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA126
17-4387
Attorney/Payee: Rodney W. Stewart
148

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Turner, A. Turner, A. Rodriguez (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Turner, A. Turner, A. Rodriguez (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA353, 13JA354, 13JA963

17-4388
Attorney/Payee: Rodney W. Stewart
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Foster, A. Duling (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Foster, A. Duling (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA889, 13JA621
17-4389
Attorney/Payee: Melinda MacGregor
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jerry Cook (father)
In Re: J. Johnson, J. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA20, 15JA21
17-4390
Attorney/Payee: Darlene Redmond
Presenter: Same
Fees: $672.91
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mary J. Santos (guardian)
In Re: R. Santos, R. Bassetl (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA523, 15JA524

17-4391
149

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Teodosio Montalvan (father)
In Re: C. Montalvan (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA00074
17-4392
Attorney/Payee: Rodney W. Stewart
Presenter: Same
Fees: $543.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Wallace (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Wallace (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA1183
17-4393
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Marzette, A. Marzette, A. Edwards, A. Luellen
(minors) GAL
In Re: A. Marzette, A. Marzette, A. Edwards, A. Luellen (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA0686, 14JA1184, 15JA1070, 17JA0197

17-4394
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $543.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anteriose Williams (father)
In Re: A. Wing (minor)
150

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 15JA1092
17-4395
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Katherine Hatcher (mother)
In Re: J. Hatcher, K. Gates, K. Gates, R. Gates (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA090, 11JA089, 11JA088, 11JA087
17-4396
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): R. Willis, Sr. (father)
In Re: R. Willis (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA0749

17-4397
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Rosco Covington (father)
In Re: T. Covington, T. Covington (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA0572, 09JA0573
17-4398
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,231.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Jorge Matias (father)
151

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: C. Penar (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA0852
17-4399
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $650.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Timothy Knight (father)
In Re: T. Knight, T. Knight (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00467, 15JA00468
17-4400
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ronteka Whitfield (mother)
In Re: I. Dunn, L. Whitfield (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00689, 16JA00610
17-4404
Attorney/Payee: Colleen R. Daly, Attorney at Law, LLC
Presenter: Same
Fees: $225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michelle Lasseter (mother)
In Re: K. Lasseter (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA200

17-4405
Attorney/Payee: Colleen R. Daly, Attorney at Law, LLC
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
152

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Smith, M. Smith, M. Smith (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Smith, M. Smith, M. Smith (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA729, 15JA730, 15JA731

17-4406
Attorney/Payee: Colleen R. Daly, Attorney at Law, LLC
Presenter: Same
Fees: $753.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): David Ramirez (father)
In Re: D. Ramirez (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA4983

17-4408
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,006.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Willingham, L. Thomas (minors) GAL
In Re: L. Willingham, L. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA471, 17JA4722

17-4410
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $887.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Aliprandi (minor) GAL
In Re: T. Aliprandi (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA01130

17-4411
153

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jerry Jason Williams (father)
In Re: A. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA00920

17-4412
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $625.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Ferguson (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Ferguson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA896

17-4413
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lesean Carter (putative father)
In Re: L. Carter AKA C. Threatt (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1460

17-4414
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Thomas Smith
In Re: J. Smith, M. Smith, M. Smith (minors)
154

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 15JA00729, 15JA00730, 15JA00731

17-4415
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lashunda Williams
In Re: T. Strauthers (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA376

17-4416
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Latrice Stanceil
In Re: D. Smith, L. Smith, J. Love Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA469, 16JA470, 16JA471

17-4418
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $437.50
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Casanova Miles
In Re: C. Miles, T. Miles (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA288, 15JA289
17-4419
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $980.00
155

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jessica Kall (mother)
In Re: A. Kall (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA1109

17-4420
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $935.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Janet Tiedeman (mother)
In Re: K. Tiedeman (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA581

17-4421
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Quentin Jenkins (father)
In Re: Q. Jenkins (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA802

17-4422
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $287.50
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Robert Jones (father)
In Re: D. Jones, D. Jones (minors)
Case No(s); 11JA650, 11JA651

156

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4423
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): T. Jackson, S. Jackson (minors) GAL
In Re: T. Jackson, S. Jackson (minors)
Case No(s): 08JA532, 08JA533

17-4424
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $425.00
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Lerell Williams (father)
In Re: K. Williams, K. U. Harris (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA154, 16JA1014

17-4425
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $681.00
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): E. Love, Jr., E. Love (minors) GAL
In Re: E. Love, Jr., E. Love (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA33, 17JA244

17-4426
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $743.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
157

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): David Green (father)
In Re: A. Green (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA325

17-4427
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $362.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christina Boutros (mother)
In Re: M. Adam (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA360
17-4428
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,181.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Bullard (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Bullard (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA165
17-4429
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Gregory Ross (father)
In Re: M. Ross, S. Ross (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA309, 14JA310

17-4447
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
158

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Timothy Wilson (father)
In Re: K. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00108
17-4452
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $337.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tanika Staples (mother)
In Re: R. McCall, J. Ward, S. Newton, T. Newton, Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA00909, 13JA00910, 14JA00903, 14JA00904
17-4456
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Valerie Humphrey (mother)
In Re: C. Humphrey, A. Humphrey, K. Humphrey, K. Humphrey (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA416, 15JA100, 16JA299, 17JA09

17-4457
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $512.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Stephen Redwell (father)
In Re: R. Haynie-Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00723
17-4458
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
159

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Muhammad (mother)
In Re: A. Muhammad (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA00919
17-4460
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Jackson (mother)
In Re: A. Jackson, E. Jackson (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00602, 16JA00727

17-4463
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): P. Duarte-Estrada, J. Martin Moreno (fathers)
In Re: Y. Duarte, A. Moreno (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA0198, 13JA0194
17-4464
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,200.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Moore (minor) GAL
In Re: I. Moore (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00378
17-4468
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
160

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $531.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Darryl Smith
In Re: J. Habasek (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA851

17-4469
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Naphtali Miller (father)
In Re: I. Miller-Bey (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA006
17-4470
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $326.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Melvin Whitehead (father)
In Re: M. Whitehead (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA327
17-4471
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $975.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael McGowan (father)
In Re: E. McGowan (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1273

17-4473
161

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $720.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nadia Goodman (mother)
In Re: S. Eskridge, S. Goodman (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA1145, 13JA1146
17-4475
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cordero Hill (father)
In Re: K. Dennis, K. Dennis, K. Williams (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA323, 14JA542, 16JA647
17-4476
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Derrick Young (father)
In Re: D. Young (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA239

17-4482
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nadia Aronno (mother)
In Re: C. Montalvan (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA00074
162

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4483
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $562.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): William Pitts (father)
In Re: W. Pitts, S. Pitts (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA790, 05JA357

17-4484
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $912.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Samuel Spivey (father)
In Re: D. Spivey (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1118

17-4485
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $340.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Gloria Vance (legal guardian)
In Re: A. King (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA536
17-4486
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Arkeen Toney (father)
In Re: A. Toney (minor)
163

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 16JA632
17-4489
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $856.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Brown, S. Brown (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Brown, S. Brown (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA101, 17JA102

17-4494
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $4,091.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Chequita Bell
In Re: J. Walker, J. Walker (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA475, 16JA476
17-4497
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $805.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Howard, K. Howard, A. Raggs (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Howard, K. Howard, A. Raggs (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA0507, 13JA0508, 15JA1266
17-4498
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $912.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Nelida Santana de Rodriguez (mother)
164

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: A. Rodriguez, M. Rodriguez, A. Rodriguez (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA0656, 15JA0657, 15JA0658

17-4499
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Natashia Bailey (mother)
In Re: B. Bailey (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA56
17-4500
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $543.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Arthur Nagozruk (father)
In Re: V. Stocklaufer (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA831
17-4501
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mario Gomez (father)
In Re: L. Gomez (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA81

17-4502
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $556.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
165

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Adreyanna Correa (mother)
In Re: L. Pena, A. Correa-Martinez, A. Correa (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA402, 15JA403, 15JA404
17-4503
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Steve Little (father)
In Re: H. Little (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA245
17-4506
Child Protection Division
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $650.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Daniel Harris (father)
In Re: D. Harris (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA00408

17-4507
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $424.04
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Liliana Fernandez (mother)
In Re: S. Waterman (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA01846
17-4509
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
166

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $262.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Gregory Minniefield (father)
In Re: D. Reeves (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA0161

17-4512
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $381.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): V. Flores, C. Flores, N. Beltran, A. Beltran
(minors) GAL
In Re: V. Flores, C. Flores, N. Beltran, A. Beltran (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA1092, 09JA1093, 12JA319, 12JA320

17-4513
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $487.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Williams, A. Williams (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Williams, A. Williams (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA301, 17JA302

17-4514
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,725.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Woodson (mother)
In Re: A. Woodson, F. Porter, O. Porter (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA00769, 12JA00948, 13JA00940
167

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4515
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Carter (father)
In Re: D. Marshall (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA01144
17-4517
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,531.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Araina Page (mother)
In Re: M. Travis, M. Travis, M. Travis (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA511, 16JA512, 15JA513

17-4518
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $337.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Yaritza Arce (mother)
In Re: S. Roche (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00870

17-4519
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
168

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Tamika Holmes (mother)
In Re: T. Carbins, T. Carbins (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00351, 15JA00352

17-4520
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Josa Sosa (father)
In Re: A. Sosa, A. Delrio (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1441, 14JA1442

17-4521
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): David Stinson Coleman (father)
In Re: M. Surell, M. Surell, D. Surell, A. Surell, A. Surrell (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA904 15JA905, 15JA906, 15JA907, 15JA908

17-4522
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $610.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Deidric Baynes (father)
In Re: D. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA172

17-4523
169

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Antoniyo Garmon (father)
In Re: A. Hall (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA414

17-4525
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $323.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Williams (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1131

17-4526
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $583.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): U. Carson, M. Shore, H. Hatcher, J. Booker (minors)
GAL
In Re: U. Carson, M. Shore, H. Hatcher, J. Booker (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA607, 13JA608, 13JA609, 13JA610

17-4527
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $662.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
170

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): W. Guzman (minor) GAL
In Re: W. Guzman (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA362

17-4528
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,368.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Villagomez, E. Villagomez, G. Villagomez
(minors) GAL
In Re: J. Villagomez, E. Villagomez, G. Villagomez (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA00661, 16JA00662, 16JA00663

17-4533
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,195.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Rodney (father)
In Re: S. Rodney (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA0134

17-4534
Child Protection Division
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $900.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Sean Keith (father)
In Re: S. Keith Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1462

17-4535
171

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $356.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cashay Sims (minor) GAL
In Re: C. Sims (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA00524

17-4537
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,093.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): William Phillips (father)
In Re: M. Phillips (minor)
Case No(s): 16 JA1027

17-4539
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $393.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Talisa Rogers (mother)
In Re: C. Rogers (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA126

17-4540
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
172

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Marten Ramirez (father)
In Re: M. Ramirez, M. Ramirez (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA644, 17JA645

17-4541
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Demond Larry (father)
In Re: A. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA229

17-4543
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,650.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Austin Allen (father)
In Re: S. Allen (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA469

17-4544
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): McRoy Lee (father)
In Re: M. Lee, Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA239

17-4546
Attorney/Payee: Brenda Sue Shavers
173

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $510.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ethel Ware (guardian)
In Re: D. Jones (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA84

17-4550
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Eric Gonzalez
In Re: G. Martinez (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00014

17-4551
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christine Fisher
In Re: K. Jones (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00046

17-4554
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $606.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): P. M. Brooks (minor) GAL
In Re: P. M. Brooks (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA247
174

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4558
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,143.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Names of respondent(s): Denisha Banks (mother)
In Re: N. Dirkans, K. Ross, J. Banks, T. Holcomb, T. Holcomb (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA329, 14JA330, 14JA331, 14JA332, 14JA333

17-4562
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,037.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christopher Maroney (father)
In Re: K. Brei (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA01039

17-4565
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $353.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): George McAlister (father)
In Re: D. McAlister, D. Purches (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA405, 14JA406

17-4566
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $496.25
175

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Elvisa Liberty (mother)
In Re: E. Crump, M. Hatic, A. Crump (minors)
Case No(s): 06JA647, 06JA648, 06JA649

17-4567
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $887.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Aron Walker (father)
In re: A. Jackson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0819

17-4568
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $237.50
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Amara Lewis (mother)
In Re: L. Alvarez-Vera Lewis, J. Lewis (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA138, 16JA54

17-4569
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $431.00
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Kwand Presswood (father)
In Re: K. Pinkins (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1280

176

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4570
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $562.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Floyd (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Floyd (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA790

17-4578
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Justese Williams (mother)
In Re: P. Brooks (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00247

17-4579
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $431.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jechuana Lewis (mother)
In Re: J. Rogers (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA01507

17-4580
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $687.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Samantha Conners (mother)
177

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: M. Soto (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00251
17-4581
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Eric McMillen, Danny Hullum (fathers)
In Re: M. McMillen, D. Byrd (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA00082, 17JA00084

17-4582
Attorney/Payee: Stuart Joshua Holt, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,837.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Donetta Kyles (mother)
In Re: T. Stamps, C. Kyles (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00615, 16JA00301

17-4584
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tatiana King (mother)
In Re: A. King (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA536

17-4585
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,312.50
178

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Leti Neely (mother)
In Re: D. Young (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA239

17-4586
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,056.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dejah Jones (mother)
In Re: L. Houston-Jones, L. Houston-Jones, L. Houston-Jones (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA15, 17JA16, 17JA17

17-4593
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Angel Vasquez (father)
In Re: A. Vazquez, G. Rodriguez, Jr., M. Vazquez (minors)
Case No(s): 01JA01160, 01JA01161, 01JA01162

17-4595
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $125.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kedzie McKenzie (mother)
In Re: Z. McKenzie (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00603

179

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4596
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $393.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Temple (minor) GAL
In Re: L. Temple (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA01066

17-4597
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $481.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): Legal Representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shannon Dye Sr. (father)
In Re: S. Dye, J. Dye (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA01128, 15JA01003

17-4598
Attorney/Payee-Darlene Redmond, Esq.
Presenter: Darlene Redmond
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Angelina Mora (mother)
In Re: A. Silva (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA548

17-4599
Attorney/Payee: Darlene Redmond, Esq.
Presenter: Darlene Redmond
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
180

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Taurus Thomas (father)
In Re: A. Thomas, H. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA663, 14JA664

17-4608
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $637.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Arcenio Paisana (father)
In Re: G. Hernandez (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1325

17-4609
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $287.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shavonda Anderson Jenkins (mother)
In Re: B. Ford (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA846

17-4610
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Harvey (minor) GAL
In Re: I. Harvey (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA470

17-4611
181

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $656.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Yronda Blackmon (mother)
In Re: J. Blackmon III (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00278

17-4612
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Williams (minor) GAL
In Re: S. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 05JA00010

17-4613
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cesar Becerra (father)
In Re: C. Becerra (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00090
17-4614
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Brown (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA00335
182

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4615
Attorney/Payee: Stuart Joshua Holt, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,293.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Davone Riddle (father)
In Re: D. Riddle (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00420

17-4616
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Damenique Traylor (father)
In Re: K. Robsinson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA14

17-4617
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Felica Peterson (mother)
In Re: A. Sneed, J. Sneed (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA1196, 14JA844

17-4618
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
183

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Kiera Norwood (mother)
In Re: J. Hood (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA27

17-4619
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $675.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Clayton Brown (father)
In Re: B. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA527

17-4620
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $425.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ebony Parker (mother)
In Re: D. Jones, D. Jones (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA650, 15JA651

17-4621
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $287.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ceasar Huerta (father)
In Re: C. Huerta (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA284

17-4622
184

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.68
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Patricia Wolfe (mother)
In Re: R. Wolfe (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA157

17-4623
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $412.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ashley Lombardo (mother)
In Re: F. Lombardo (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA812

17-4624
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $737.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Hughes (father)
In Re: L. Estrada (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA852

17-4625
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $593.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Thomas, Q. Kirkwood (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Thomas, Q. Kirkwood (minors)
185

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 15JA1064, 15JA1065

17-4626
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): G. Marshall (minor) GAL
In Re: G. Marshall (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA84

17-4627
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,087.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Germany, N. Germany (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Germany, N. Germany (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA210, 13JA211

17-4628
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Megan Marin (mother)
In Re: J. Marin, A. Marin (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1153, 14JA1154

17-4629
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
186

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joseph Ellis (father)
In Re: M. E. Ellis (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA108
17-4630
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Laskesia Murph (mother)
In Re: K. Murph, A. Alexander, J. Murph, S. Murph (minors)
Case No(s): 07JA1075, 07JA1079, 07JA1078, 07JA1076

17-4631
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Domingue Williams (mother)
In Re: J. Celestine, J. Celestine, S. Celestine, J. Williams (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA602, 13JA603 13JA626, 07JA297

17-4635
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rigoberto Hernandez (father)
In Re: G. Hernandez, M. Hernandez (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA391, 14JA392

17-4637
187

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $512.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Blackman, D. Blackman (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Blackman, D. Blackman (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA22, 14JA492

17-4638
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $506.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tyshawn Troop (father)
In Re: J. Jones (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA413
17-4651
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $150.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Mischeaux (minor) GAL
In Re: R. Mischeaux (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA661
17-4652
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,718.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Woods (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Woods (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA213
188

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4653
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): John Hicks (father)
In Re: M. Hicks, D. Hicks (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA529, 16JA530
17-4654
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lori Harrison Vaughn (mother)
In Re: J. Harrison (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA2113

17-4655
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $287.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Devonjae Strong (father)
In Re: D. Strong (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA1138

17-4660
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,593.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
189

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Angel Ramos (father), Ashly Ross (mother)
In Re: J. Ramos (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA1062

17-4662
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Virginia Rodriguez (guardian)
In Re: D. Castro (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00621

17-4663
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kisha Johnson (guardian)
In Re: K. House, L. House, D. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA00830, 09JA00831, 10JA00419

17-4664
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $893.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): B. Honey (minor) GAL
In Re: B. Honey (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA1084

17-4665
190

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,025.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tiffany Klimek (mother)
In Re: A. Klimek (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA181

17-4666
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,131.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Robinson (mother), D. Ware (father)
In Re: S. Ware (minor)
Case No(s): 03JA1495
17-4667
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $718.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): V. Pritchett (mother), D. Hamilton, D. Hightower
(fathers)
In Re: D. Hamilton, D. Hightower (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1090, 15JA1091

17-4668
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $390.28
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Norman LeSure (father)
In Re: T. Hamilton (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA355
191

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4669
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lamont Ollie Sr. (father)
In Re: L. Ollie, L. Ollie, M. Ross (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA738, 14JA739, 14JA740

17-4670
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Donna Neal (mother)
In Re: O. Neal, O. Gale, O. Brown, O. Atwater (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA244, 13JA245, 13JA246, 14JA720

17-4674
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation as Attorney
Name(s) of respondent(s): Esequiel Lopez, Sr. (father)
In Re: E. Lopez (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA1025

17-4675
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $662.50
192

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jefferson Love, Sr. (father)
In Re: J. Love, Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA471

17-4676
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $543.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christopher Gutierrez (father)
In Re: C. Gutierrez (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1274

17-4677
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $962.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Eduardo Munoz (father)
In Re: V. Munoz, G. Munoz (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA737, 15JA738

17-4678
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,200.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kevin Powell (father)
In Re: R. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA916

193

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4679
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $362.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tiffany Klimek (mother)
In Re: A. Klimek (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA181

17-4680
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $943.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marco Marroquin (father)
In Re: S. Marroquin (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA150

17-4681
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $331.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jessica Dobbs (mother)
In Re: E. Blue, Z. Blue, T. Dobbs (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA659, 14JA660, 14JA662

17-4682
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dominik Frajt (father)
194

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: J. Frajt (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA980

17-4686
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Elvin Cotto (father)
In re: J. Cotto (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA0600

17-4687
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Bernadino Lopez (father)
In Re: A. Lopez (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA11

17-4688
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
Respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Julius Price (father)
In Re: J. Price, J. Price (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA455, 16JA462

17-4690
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
195

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $593.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
Respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Daevondre Powell (father)
In Re: D. Powell (minor)
Case No (s): 14JA01333

17-4691
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Juan Roman (father)
In Re: J. Roman, M. Roman, J. Roman, N. Roman (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00124, 15JA00123, 15JA00250, 16JA00554

17-4694
Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $801.86
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dinika Lawrence (mother)
In Re: D. Perkins (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA291

17-4695
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): H. Little (minor) GAL
In Re: H. Little (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA245

196

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4696
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $256.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anteriose Williams (father)
In Re: C. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1205

17-4708
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter Same
Fees: $4,078.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s)
legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Chequita Bell
In Re: J. Walker, J. Walker (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA475, 16JA476

17-4710
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $675.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lesean Threatt (father)
In Re: L. Carter AKA L. Threatt (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1460

17-4711
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Clay (minor) GAL
197

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: I. Clay (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA01101

17-4712
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Dunn, L. Whitfield (minors) GAL
In Re: I. Dunn, L. Whitfield (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00689, 16 JA 00610

17-4713
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Maurice Higgs (father)
In Re: L. Higgs, D. Higgs (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA00285, 12JA00286

17-4714
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Nwagwu, E. Nwagwu, N. Watkins (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Nwagwu, E. Nwagwu, N. Watkins (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA00201, 12JA00202, 12JA00203

17-4715
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
198

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Alexander Luellen (father)
In Re: A. Luellen (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA197

17-4719
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $255.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Phyllis Thomas (mother)
In Re: D. Terrell (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1452

17-4720
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $190.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Woogett (minor) GAL
In Re: A. Woogett (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA0600

17-4721
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $880.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jamie Anderson (father)
199

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: J. Horvath (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0867

17-4722
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $218.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ella Cooper (mother)
In Re: L. Cooper (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00594

17-4727
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $606.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Wynnetta Welch (mother)
In Re: J. Welch, I. Green (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA532, 13JA533

17-4728
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $887.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Khalid Bryant (father)
In Re: A. Fortson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA540

17-4731
Attorney/Payee: Colleen R. Daly, Attorney at Law, LLC
Presenter: Same
200

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $547.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anthony Bryant (father)
In Re: A. Murphy (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA109

17-4733
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $737.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: D. Miller, Sr. (father)
In Re: D. Miller (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1001

17-4734
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,995.38
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Parker (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Parker (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA1568

17-4735
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $555.05
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Ferguson (minor) GAL
In Re: A. Ferguson (minor)
201

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 15JA0373

17-4736
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $897.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Elaine Brown (Guardian)
In Re: L. Fowler (minor)
Case No(s): 07JA00138

17-4737
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $392.60
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tamica Ashford (mother)
In Re: T. Ashford (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA0707

17-4738
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $218.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Willie Adams (father)
In Re: D. Adams (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1086

17-4739
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
202

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $1,044.45
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kelvin Warner (father)
In Re: K. Pinkins (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1038

17-4740
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $756.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): D'Andre Thomas (father)
In Re: D. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA0988

17-4792
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $525.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charles Chrapla (father)
In Re: J. Korte, A. Korte (minors)
Case No(s): 05JA01289, 05JA01291

17-4793
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Andrea Santos (mother)
In Re: R. Santos, R. Santos, R. Santos, R. Santos (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00519, 15JA00520, 15JA00521, 15JA00522
203

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4794
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $700.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Thomas (minor) GAL
In Re: S. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA00227

17-4796
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jason Poss (father)
In Re: C. Poss, K. Poss (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00228, 14JA00229

17-4797
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $793.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Germaine Lovelady (father)
In Re: K. Lovelady (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA686

17-4810
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,806.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Wright, M. Johnson, D. Wright, H. Shelton
204

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

(minors) GAL
In Re: T. Wright, M. Johnson, D. Wright, H. Shelton (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA861, 13JA862, 13JA863, 14JA1127

17-4815
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $927.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dontanion Cottrell (father)
In Re: J. Cottrell, A. Cottrell (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA1050, 16JA1051

17-4816
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $732.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Rogers (Private Guardian)
In Re: A. Rogers (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA771

17-4817
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $515.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Fanas Evans (mother)
In Re: D. Polk-Bey, F. Evans (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA669, 11JA670

17-4819
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
205

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Roosevelt, Jr., D. King (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Roosevelt, Jr., D. King (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA1164, 14JA430

17-4820
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,931.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kendall Barber (father), Romerio Morgan, Sr.
(father)
In Re: B. Brinkley, B. Brinkley Morgan, R. Morgan, Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA1107, 10JA1108, 10JA1109

17-4821
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,618.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Cardena, G. Cardena (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Cardena, G. Cardena (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA942, 14JA1312

17-4822
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $525.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kevin Luklan (father)
In Re: K. Luklan, J. Luklan, M. Luklan, S. Luklan, D. Luklan (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1027, 14JA1028, 14JA1029, 14JA1030, 14JA1031
206

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4823
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): DuRhonda Palmore (mother)
In Re: M. Palmore (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA641

17-4825
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $337.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jose Garcia (father)
In Re: A. Garcia, N. Garcia (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA257, 16JA258
17-4826
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $568.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Althinia Lofton (mother)
In Re: A. Drink (minor)
Case No(s): 07JA1036
17-4827
Attorney/Payee: Robert A. Horwitz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $843.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tahlia Noe (mother)
In Re: T. Noe, T. Noe (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA105, 17JA227
207

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4834
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: same
Fees: $225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Wilkenson (minor) GAL
In Re: R. Wilkenson (minor)
Case No(s): 06JA00657

17-4835
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: same
Fees: $150.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Timothy Stovall (father)
In Re: T.H. Stovall (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA1067

17-4836
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Cordero (father)
In Re: A. Cordero (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA262

17-4837
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: same
Fees: $168.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
208

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Andre Dahmani (father)
In Re: F.G. Dahmani (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA157

17-4839
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: same
Fees: $2,212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: Deonte Bell (father)
In Re: N. Bell (minor)
Case No(s):17JA00193

17-4840
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: same
Fees: $150.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Jones (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Jones (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA677

17-4841
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: James Palmore (father)
In Re: M. Palmore (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA641
17-4842
209

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: same
Fees: $1,487.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: Wesley Hall (father)
In Re: Z. Hall, D. Bohannon (minors)
Case No(s):17JA00433, 17JA00434

17-4843
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $525.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: Saul Cortez (father)
In Re: L. Cortez (minor)
Case No(s):16JA145

17-4844
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: same
Fees: $1,037.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: William Osborne (father)
In Re: L. Osborne, C. Osborne (minors)
Case No(s):16JA1092, 16JA1093

17-4845
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: Same
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Little (minor) GAL
In Re: C. Little (minor)
210

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No(s): 16JA611
17-4849
Attorney/Payee: Joseph G. Gebhart, Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $443.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Carlos Roman (father)
In Re: C. Roman, I. Roman (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1233, 15JA1234

17-4851
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Latosha Irvin (mother)
In Re: R. Irvin, R. Irvin, R. Irvin, R. Shambley, R. Shambley, Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA00692, 16JA00693, 16JA00694, 16JA00695, 16JA00696

17-4852
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Taneeka Gentry (mother)
In Re: N. Johnson, M. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00082, 15JA00083

17-4853
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $268.99
211

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Garner (father)
In Re: J. Garner, A. Garner, J. Garner, K. Garner (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA593, 16JA954, 16JA975, 16JA976

17-4854
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,265.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marcellous Wallace
In Re: A. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA315

17-4855
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Freda Hawkins (mother)
In Re: M. Hawkins (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA556

17-4856
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Socrates, S. Curtin-Abdullah (minors) GAL
In Re: S. Socrates, S. Curtin-Abdullah (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1096, 14JA1097

212

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4857
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Woods, J. Summeries (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Woods, J. Summeries (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA00839, 11JA00341

17-4858
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $423.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charletta Lawson (mother)
In Re: J. Lawson (minor)
Case No(s): 06JA238

17-4859
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $568.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Vishuana Brown (mother)
In Re: S. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00102

17-4860
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $557.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
213

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Name(s) of respondent(s): Christina Limiero (mother)
In Re: T. White (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00367

17-4861
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $606.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Agee, J. Fields, J. Fields, J. Fields (minors)
GAL
In Re: A. Agee, J. Fields, J. Fields, J. Fields (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA315, 15JA316, 15JA317, 15JA318

17-4862
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $306.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Ball (minor) GAL
In Re: I. Ball (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00593

17-4863
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tim Brown (father)
In Re: M. Moore (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA352

17-4864
214

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Dana Smith (mother)
In Re: J. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA260

17-4873
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
Respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Donal Romano (father)
In Re: S. Romano (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA0121

17-4874
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $400.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
Respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Nathaniel Alexander (father)
In Re: P. Alexander (minor)
Case No (s): 10JA00992

17-4880
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $962.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Samuel Santiago (father)
215

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In re: N. Santiago (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0407

17-4881
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Pasco (father)
In re: R. Pasco, Jr., R. Pasco (minors)
Case No(s): 114JA1017, 14JA1018

17-4883
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $707.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anita Owens (mother)
In Re: M. Owens, Z. Owens (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA1147, 13JA1148

17-4885
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $637.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Concepcion Velez (mother)
In Re: L. Barragon, J. Barragon (minors)
Case No(s): 06JA335, 06JA337

17-4886
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
216

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $655.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): M. Castle, S. Castle (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Castle, S. Castle (minors)
Case No(s): 01JA1345, 01JA1346

17-4887
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,427.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Mario Dominguez (father)
In Re: A. Algarin (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA25

17-4888
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $737.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): C. Ingram, C. Ingram, T. Matthews (minors) GAL
In Re: C. Ingram, C. Ingram, T. Matthews (minors)
Case No(s): 12 JA1071, 12JA1072, 13JA828

17-4890
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $515.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Aaron Key (father)
In Re: A. Key-Knox (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA750
217

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4891
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
Legal Representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Princess Hill (mother)
In Re: A. Hill (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA1111

17-4892
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $722.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Bertha Cameron (mother)
In Re: D. Cameron, N. Cameron, F. Cameron (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA421, 09JA422, 09JA423

17-4897
Attorney/Payee: Theodore J. Adams
Presenter: same
Fees: $1,575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Karla Alatrash (mother)
In Re: T. Weeks, R. Curl, A. Thompson (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1184, 15JA1185, 16JA638

17-4898
Attorney/Payee: Theodore J. Adams
Presenter: same
Fees: $465.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. Anderson, T. Brooks, J. Anderson (minors) GAL
218

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: K. Anderson, T. Brooks, J. Anderson (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA147, 11JA984, 14JA74
17-4899
Attorney/Payee: Theodore J. Adams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $395.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Z. Biggs (minor) GAL
In Re: Z. Biggs (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA507

17-4904
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Stephen Stevkov (father)
In Re: S. Stevkov (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA816

17-4905
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $137.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Redmond (minor) GAL
In Re: T. Redmond (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA93
17-4906
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $200.00
219

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Diamond Maxwell (father)
In Re: A. Maxwell, D. Maxwell (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA673, 15JA674
17-4907
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Harper, L. Harper (minors) GAL
In Re: L. Harper, L. Harper (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1340, 14JA1341
17-4908
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. Lewis (minor) GAL
In Re: K. Lewis (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA803
17-4912
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Jackson (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Jackson (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA729
17-4915
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: same
Fees: $343.75
220

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Henderson (father)
In Re: R. Henderson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00093

17-4916
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $731.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tanuel Hampton (mother)
In Re: N. Luvert (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00482
17-4917
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Parker (minor) GAL
In Re: T. Parker (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00113
17-4918
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $643.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Laveda Dennis (mother)
In Re: K. Massey, J. McIntosh, K. Williams (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00541, 09JA00708, 16JA00647

17-4919
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
221

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Donell Frazier (father)
In Re: M. Hayden (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA00176
17-4921
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,868.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): M. Sanders, J. Sanders, K. Porter (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Sanders, J. Sanders, K. Porter (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1306, 15JA1307, 16JA0950
17-4922
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: same
Fees: $252.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Frederick Barker (father)
In Re: A. Amos (minor)
Case No(s): 05JA0567

17-4923
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Humphrey (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Humphrey (minor)
Case No(s): 06JA0422
17-4924
222

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,238.44
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ashley Martinez (mother)
In Re: A. Martinez, A. Traylor (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1074, 16JA629
17-4925
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $662.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Eskrudge, S. Goodman (minors) GAL
In Re: S. Eskridge, S. Goodman (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA1145, 13JA1146

17-4926
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $200.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Herbert Coleman (father)
In Re: D. Coleman (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA976
17-4927
Attorney/Payee: Ellen J Morris Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $611.25
Services Rendered for court appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Andre Lewis (father)
In Re: D. Sparkman (minor)
Case NO(s): 12JA875
223

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4928
Attorney/Payee: Rodney W. Stewart
Presenter: Same
Fees: $406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Waterman (minor) GAL
In Re: S. Waterman (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA1846

17-4957
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $650.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: Ahmad McIntosh (father)
In Re: J. McIntosh (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA708

17-4958
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: Larry Johnson (father)
In Re: M. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA668

17-4961
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,031.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Vincent Buckner (father)
224

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

In Re: T. Dennis (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA707

17-4963
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Debra Thomas (mother)
In Re: D. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA01224

17-4964
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): O. Poindexter (father)
In Re: O. Poindexter (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA00187

17-4965
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Eric Baldinger (father)
In Re: C. Goodman (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00060

17-4966
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
225

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fees: $400.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): George Lomeli (father)
In Re: J. Lomeli (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA00818

17-4967
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,925.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Ramsey (father)
In Re: L. Ramsey (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA940

17-4973
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Gary, M. Gary (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Gary, M. Gary (minors)
Case No(s): 03JA733, 03JA734

17-4974
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: same
Fees: $3,018.50
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Forrest Beightol (mother)
In Re: D. Davis, Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA221
226

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4976
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joel Foster (father)
In Re: J. Foster (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA1175

17-4983
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,000.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Coleman, D. Coleman, D. Coleman (minors) GAL
In Re: S. Coleman, D. Coleman, D. Coleman (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA71, 15JA72, 15JA73

17-4984
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Vazquez (minor) GAL
In Re: A. Vazquez (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA914

17-4988
Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $844.21
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
227

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tamara Thompson (mother)
In Re: M. Thompson, R. Wesley, Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 08JA908, 14JA45

17-4989
Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $338.43
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Barbara Schutzius (mother)
In Re: M. Jelley, M. Jelley (minors)
Case No(s): 08JA476, 08JA477

17-4990
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $910.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ayesha Moore (mother)
In Re: B. Moore, F. Moore, M. Richie, A. Richie, M. Richie, C. Richie, H.
Richie (minors)
Case No(s): 17JA0743, 17JA0744, 17JA0745, 17JA0746, 17JA0747, 17JA0748,
17JA0749

17-4992
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,888.75
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Shumate (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Shumate (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA00174
228

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4994
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $943.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Humphrey, A. Humphrey, K. Humphrey, K. Humphrey
(minors) GAL
In Re: C. Humphrey, A. Humphrey, K. Humphrey, K. Humphrey (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA416, 15JA100, 16JA299, 17JA9

17-4995
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $571.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rebecca Wells (mother)
In Re: R. Durniat (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA40

17-4996
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $631.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Zetr Bohannon (mother)
In Re: D. Scott (minor)
Case No(s): 17JA00432

JUVENILE JUSTICE DIVISION

229

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4231
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,118.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Davis (minor)
Case No(s): 15JD2705

17-4331
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Davila (minor), Maria E. Herrera (mother)
Case No(s): 12JD04377

17-4351
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $525.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Aguado (minor), Dora Aguado (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD03913

17-4367
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,075.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Fox (minor) GAL
Case No(s): 17JD357

230

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4401
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $700.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Anderson (minor), Tracy Rainey (mother)
Case No(s): 12JD03293

17-4487
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Barnes (minor), Sanya Barnes (mother)
Case No(s): 16JD843

17-4488
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. C. Martinez (minor), C. Martinez, M. Martinez
(parents)
Case No(s): 14JD2429

17-4508
Attorney/Payee: Michael McInerney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Mathis (minor)
Case No(s): 17JD10
231

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4552
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name (s) of respondent (s): T. James (minor), Sadie Farmer
Case No(s): 16JD1742

17-4563
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $431.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Camarena (minor) GAL
Case No(s): 16JD01754

17-4564
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Jimenz (minor), Jose Jimenez (father)
Case No(s): 12JD02100

17-4583
Attorney/Payee: James J. Martin Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Villagran (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD40032
232

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4600
Attorney/Payee: James J. Martin Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Ayala (minor)
Case No(s): 13JD30133

17-4633
Attorney/Payee: James J. Martin Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Walker (minor)
Case No(s): 15JD40080

17-4634
Attorney/Payee: James J. Martin Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,062.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. McCafferty (minor)
Case No(s): 12JD30059

17-4671
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
233

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Turner (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD1109

17-4672
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD1063

17-4673
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $837.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): P. Billings (minor), Troyanna Brown (guardian)
Case No(s): 15JD1985

17-4729
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. King (minor), L. Westmoreland (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD2303

17-4802
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
234

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Vidal (minor), Santa Arredondo (mother)
Case No(s): 14JD03494

17-4838
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: Same
Fees: $318.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent:
legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. B. Brown (minor), Jerry Brown (father)
Case No(s): 12JD3323

17-4850
Attorney: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $365.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Bergman (minor), Lanndrea Robinson (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD0885

17-4913
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $993.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): H. Moncada (minor), Diany Caballero (mother)
Case No(s): 16JD298

17-4968
235

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Sepkus (minor), Valintina Sepkus (mother)
Case No(s): 13JD1991

SPECIAL COURT CASES
17-4931
Firm: Office of the Special Prosecutor
Attorney(s): Myles P. O’Rourke
Case Name: Appointment of Special Prosecutor
Case No.(s): 91 CR 22152, et al.
Date of This Order: 07/11/2017
Time period: 06/01/2017 - 06/30/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $4,507,732.81
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A

$123,449.50

17-4909
Firm: Odelson & Sterk, LTD.
Special State's Attorney(s): Burton S. Odelson
Case Name: Bless v. Cook County, et al.
Case No.(s): 13 C 4271
Time period: 02/22/2017 - 03/10/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $0.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 05/09/2017

$11,321.35

17-4946
Firm: Office of the Special Prosecutor
Attorney(s): Ronald F. Neville
Case Name: Appointment of Special Prosecutor
236

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case No.(s): 2001 Misc. 4
Date of This Order: 07/26/2017
Time period: 04/01/2015 - 07/01/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $173,137.48
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A

$9,734.77

17-4952
Firm: Office of the Special Prosecutor
Attorney(s): Myles P. O’Rourke
Case Name: Appointment of Special Prosecutor
Case No.(s): 91 CR 22152, et al.
Date of This Order: 08/22/2017
Time period: 07/01/2017 - 07/31/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $4,507,732.81
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A

$111,475.00

17-4954
Firm: Pretzel & Stouffer, Chartered
Special State's Attorney(s): John H. Scheid, Jr.
Case Name: Stewart Title v. Grapas, et al.
Case No.(s): 15 L 4520, 12 P 3203
Time period: 05/01/2017 - 05/31/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $54,351.51
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 07/18/2017
A motion to approve 17-4954 passed.

$2,056.40

17-4947
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Mary T. Robinson
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Organization of Cook County, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 07/11/2017
237

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Unopposed Petition Number: 144
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $29,986.64
Paid to Date: $8,536,702.42
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-4949
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Cardelle Spangler
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 07/13/2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 166
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $13,475.23
Paid to Date: $1,903,695.22
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-4950
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Cardelle Spangler
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 07/19/2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 167
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $9,880.95
Paid to Date: $1,903,965.22
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

17-4951
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Cardelle Spangler
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/01/2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 168
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $12,764.07
Paid to Date: $1,903,965.22
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
238

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4979
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Susan G. Feibus
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Assessor, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/21/2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 100
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $33,556.87
Paid to Date: $1,922,383.47
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

17-4982
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Mary T. Robinson
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Organization of Cook County, et al.
Case No.(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/22/2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 145
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $28,127.81
Paid to Date: $8,564,011.29
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-5118
Firm: Locke, Lord, Bissell & Liddell, LLP
Attorney(s): Roger R. Fross
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/29/2017
Time period: 04/01/2017 - 07/31/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $86,534.86
Paid to Date: $1,152,181.55
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

17-5119
Firm: Locke, Lord, Bissell & Liddell, LLP.
Attorney(s): Roger R. Fross
239

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County Assessor, et al.
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/29/2017
Time period: 04/01/2017 - 07/31/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $72,459.30
Paid to Date: $1,068,270.13
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-5121
Firm: Locke, Lord, Bissell & Liddell, LLP.
Attorney(s): Roger R. Fross
Case Name: Shakman, et al. v. Cook County
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 08/29/2017
Time period: 04/01/2017- 07/31/2017
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $61,281.61
Paid to Date: $2,736,069.09
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-4345
Attorney/Payee: Shelley B. Ballard P.C.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $642.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. K. S. (mother)
In re: S. J. to adopt T.T.S. S., T. K. S.
Case No(s): 2017COAD30

17-4516
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,095.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent
respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Y. D.
240

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

In Re: N. D.
Case No(s): 16COAD90

SPECIAL CRIMINAL COURT CASES

NOTE:

There are no cases of the above item type to be approved for this meeting.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims moved to approve all Court Orders.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
17-5000
Employee: Patricia Alston
Job Title: Counselor
Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 01/27/2013
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her left hand and arm when a resident hit her with a chair.
Accidental Injuries: Left hand and arm
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 40894
Claim Amount: $14,660.48
Attorney: Jennifer Robinson of Rittenberg, Buffen, Gulbrandsen, Robinson & Saks, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: 10/11/2005 ($4,000.00); 04/13/2008 and 11/24/2007 ($8,267.64); 03/15/2009 and
03/27/2011 ($14,923.75)

17-5002
Employee: Paul Janke, Sr.
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 04/19/2015
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner was lifting an 80 pound spare tire into a van when he slipped, injuring
his right shoulder and left knee requiring surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Right shoulder and left knee
Petition and Order No: 15 WC 16710
Claim Amount: $77,306.44
Attorney: Vitas J. Mockaitis of Peter D. Corti Law Group, P.C.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 05/10/2017
Prior/pending claims: None
241

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5003
Employee: Brian Morley
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 09/28/2015
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured his left shoulder when he slipped on water and broke his fall
with his left arm.
Accidental Injuries: Left shoulder
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 08887
Claim Amount: $55,356.00
Attorney: Samuel J. Ruffolo of Baum, Ruffolo & Marzal Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5004
Employee: Maurice Sanders
Job Title: Sterile Processing Technician
Department: Stroger Hospital
Date of Incident: 03/10/2014
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured his right shoulder, resulting in a rotator cuff tear, when a power
jack malfunctioned.
Accidental Injuries: Right shoulder
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 11261
Claim Amount: $36,000.00
Attorney: Charles E. Webster of Brustin & Lundblad, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5011
Employee: Edward Sliva
Job Title: Deputy Sheriff
Department: Sheriff's Court Services
Date of Incident: 06/10/2016
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner was involved in a motor vehicle accident, injuring his wrist and back.
Accidental Injuries: Back and wrist
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 31243
Claim Amount: $24,997.78
Attorney: Parag P. Bhosale of Gardi & Haught, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
242

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5021
Employee: William O’Shea
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 11/18/2016
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured his head and neck when he was assaulted by an inmate.
Accidental Injuries: Head and neck
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 36001
Claim Amount: $5,700.00
Attorney: John W. Powers of Cullen, Haskins, Nicholson & Menchetti, P.C.,
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5022
Employee: Kevin Koeneman
Job Title: Truck Driver
Department: Highway Department
Date of Incident: 08/03/2012
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his neck while lifting a heavy asphalt container requiring a three level
herniated disc neck fusion surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Neck
Petition and Order No: 13 WC 039261
Claim Amount: $124,696.25
Attorney: Dean Caras of Caras Law Group, P.C.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 09/13/2017
Prior/pending claims: 03/21/2010 ($4,021.57); 06/07/2006 ($62,727.62); 08/05/1992 ($8,649.00)

17-5027
Employee: John Luckett
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 09/20/2012 and 04/2020/15
Incident/Activity: Petitioner was attacked by an inmate, suffering injuries to his right hand and head. The
Petitioner injured his left knee and left hand when he was attacked by an inmate.
Accidental Injuries: Right hand and head & left knee and left hand
Petition and Order No: 13 WC 11714 and 15 WC 13454 (17 WC 01096 duplicate filing)
Claim Amount: $40,445.35
Attorney: Jason Whiteside of Whiteside & Goldberg, Ltd.
243

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Date of Subcommittee Approval: (06/06/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5030
Employee: Edwin Drowns
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 03/20/2016
Incident/Activity: Petitioner was injured when a detainee he was escorting to a cell hit him in the eye and
nose, requiring surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Eye and nose
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 10829
Claim Amount: $15,048.00
Attorney: Anthony Cuda of Cuda Law Offices, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5031
Employee: Michael Kaper
Job Title: Counselor
Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 10/17/2014
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his left shoulder in an altercation with a juvenile detainee and
required
surgery for a labral tear.
Accidental Injuries: Left shoulder
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 11684
Claim Amount: $28,826.50
Attorney: James Nawrocki of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 09/13/2017
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5032
Employee: Joan Dissette
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 11/07/2014
Incident/Activity: Petitioner slipped and fell on a staircase, at work, injuring her right leg and requiring
surgery.
244

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Accidental Injuries: Right leg
Petition and Order No: 15 WC 025594
Claim Amount: $42,345.16
Attorney: Scott Goldstein of Ankin Law Office, LLC.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5036
Employee: Rosemary Fixon-Williams
Job Title: Registered Nurse
Department: Stroger Hospital
Date of Incident: 05/23/2016
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her left ankle, while assisting a patient.
Accidental Injuries: Left ankle
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 19139
Claim Amount: $9,519.13
Attorney: Patricia Lannon Kus of Lannon, Lannon & Barr, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5041
Employee: Daniel Egan
Job Title: Operating Engineer
Department: Oak Forest Hospital
Date of Incident: 12/01/2011
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his leg when he stepped in a hole.
Accidental Injuries: Left leg
Petition and Order No: 12 WC 01888
Claim Amount: $74,796.35
Attorney: Marc Stookal of Nilson, Stookal, Gleason & Caputo, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 05/10/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5042
Employee: Michael Bawiec
Job Title: Administrative Assistant V
Department: Highway Department
Date of Incident: 08/17/2012
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his back when he moved some equipment.
245

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Accidental Injuries: Back
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 15717
Claim Amount: $157,284.28
Attorney: Bruce A. Dickman of Bruce A. Dickman Attorney at Law
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: Petitioner had two prior claims. 07 WC 39743: On 10/05/04, Petitioner injured his
low back when he moved testing equipment in the District Three garage. 07 WC 39744: On 09/27/05,
Petitioner injured his low back when he picked up soil samples that were to be tested. Both matters settled
for $73,971.25.
17-5043
Employee: Vernon Berry
Job Title: Recreational Specialist
Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 06/26/2014
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured her right leg, while restraining a detainee.
Accidental Injuries: Right leg
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 34106
Claim Amount: $29,987.25
Attorney: Jennifer Robinson of Rittenberg, Buffen, Gulbrandsen & Saks, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5044
Employee: Alfredo Garcia
Job Title: Sheriff Officer
Department: Sheriff’s Police Department
Date of Incident: 04/06/2017
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his right ring and right small fingers when they were smashed by a
window.
Accidental Injuries: Right ring and small fingers
Petition and Order No: 17 WC 10619
Claim Amount: $12,797.07
Attorney: Steven J. Tenzer of Law Offices of Steven J. Tenzer, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5045
Employee: Sara Arzet
Job Title: Nurse
246

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Department: Stroger Hospital
Date of Incident: 11/13/2006 & 03/22/2004
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured her left ankle after slipping on a wet floor and falling. Petitioner
injured
her neck and back when an elevator in which she was riding dropped rapidly and stopped, causing her to
fall.
Accidental Injuries: Left ankle; neck and back.
Petition and Order No: 07 WC 01216, 04 WC 29002
Claim Amount: $24,220.84
Attorney: Kitra Killen of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None.

17-5046
Employee: Angel Guzman
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 09/17/2016
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his nose during an altercation with an inmate.
Accidental Injuries: Nose
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 32068
Claim Amount: $11,990.40
Attorney: Anthony Cuda of Cuda Law Offices, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5047
Employee: Evelyn G. Okeke
Job Title: Clinical Nurse
Department: Cermak Hospital
Date of Incident: 10/19/2016
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured her right wrist, left and right knees, left arm, left shoulder and back
when a detainee pushed her down on the floor.
Accidental Injuries: Right wrist, Left and Right knees, Left arm, Left shoulder and back
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 32853
Claim Amount: $76,351.20
Attorney: Lawrence G. Gordon of Gordon & Centracchio, L.L.C.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

247

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5067
Employee: Garrett Jones
Job Title: Correctional Officer
Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 12/28/2014
Incident/Activity: While exiting the building at Cook County Jail, Petitioner's hand went through the glass
window of the door, causing a serious laceration on his right hand and requiring surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Hand and wrist
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 43627
Claim Amount: $42,066.00
Attorney: Richard E. Aleksy of Aleksy Belcher
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None
17-5069
Employee: Debra Marquez
Job Title: Administrative Assistant
Department: State's Attorney’s Office
Date of Incident: 11/14/2014
Incident/Activity: Petitioner tripped over a box and fell, sustaining a fracture of her left foot.
Accidental Injuries: Foot
Petition and Order No: 15 WC 04596
Claim Amount: $7,808.70
Attorney: Daniel A. Klein of Kurasch & Klein, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 09/13/2017
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5071
Employee: Ralph L. Moore
Job Title: Truck Driver
Department: Highway Department
Date of Incident: 07/27/2015
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured his right knee when he fell while dismounting from his truck, which
required surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Leg
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 02193
Claim Amount: $56,830.30
Attorney: Gary B. Friedman of Friedman and Solmor, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/2017
Prior/pending claims: None
248

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5075
Employee: Lolita Witherspoon
Job Title: Deputy Sheriff
Department: Sheriff's Court Services
Date of Incident: 01/10/2016
Incident/Activity: Petitioner fell and injured her right knee after stepping on uneven floor in garage while
engaged in her duties, requiring surgery.
Accidental Injuries: Knee
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 08888
Claim Amount: $36,533.76
Attorney: Curtis A. James of Baum, Ruffolo & Marzal, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 07/19/17
Prior/pending claims: None

17-5088
Employee: Lorraine Powell
Job Title: Deputy Sheriff
Department: Sheriff’s Court Services
Date of Incident: 03/29/2015
Incident/Activity: Petitioner injured her left leg when she tripped on a rug.
Accidental Injuries: left leg
Petition and Order No: 15 WC 12650
Claim Amount: $3,239.41
Attorney: Robert I. Briskman of Briskman Briskman & Greenberg
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: 10 WC 32384: On 08/08/2010, Petitioner suffered an aggravation of her asthma
from smoke and received a settlement amount of $1000.00; 05 WC 44535: On 09/10/2005, Petitioner
injured her left leg when she fell and received a settlement amount of $7,000.00.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims moved to approve all Workers’
Compensation Claims.
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (CORPORATE)

17-4451
Case: Generator Rental at Division 3 at Cook County Jail
Case No: N/A
249

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Settlement Amount: $26,028.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: Patten Power Systems
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Settlement of PattenCat Invoices
17-4553
Case: Carson v. Dart et al.
Case No: 16 C 5349
Settlement Amount: $30,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: Larry Carson and Thomas G. Morrissey, Ltd.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation.

17-4800
Case: State Farm a/s/o Dorothy and Edwin Schumpp v. Cook County Highway Department
Case No: 15 M1 15664
Settlement Amount: $1,189.50
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: State Farm Automobile Insurance Company a/s/o Dorothy Schumpp and Edwin Schumpp
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of negligent maintenance of a roadway

17-5117
Case: Goudy et al. v. Evans et al.
Case No: 16 C 8676
Settlement Amount: $15,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: Adele Nicholas on behalf of Demont Goudy and others similarly situated
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (HEALTH)

17-4555
250

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Case: Hardy v. Dart et al.
Case No: 16 C 5561
Settlement Amount: $2,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Arthur Hardy and Thomas G. Morrissey, Ltd.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation.
17-4559
Case: Brown v. Howard, et al.
Case No: 15 C 2396
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Kathelma Dunford
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.
17-4716
Case: Cruz v. Dr. Howard, et al.
Case No: 14 C 7935
Settlement Amount: $20,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: The Client Trust Fund Account of the Law Offices of Scott T. Kamin on behalf of Jose Cruz
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation
17-4798
Case: Banks v. Flowers, et al.
Case No: 15 C 2289
Settlement Amount: $15,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Sondra C. Unseld
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation

17-4870
Case: Macon v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 5236
251

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Settlement Amount: $40,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Shawn M. Macon
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4884
Case: Wilson v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 10572
Settlement Amount: $15,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Kaplan Papadakis & Gournis, PC Client Trust Account and Randel Wilson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4953
Case: Ginez, Omar (Est. Xochitl Flores v. County of Cook)
Case No: 13 L 4651
Settlement Amount: $3,000,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: $1,231,178.29 payable to “Omar Ginez as Administrator of the Estate of Xochitl Flores,
deceased and his attorneys, Karchmar & Stone” $1,768,821.71 payable to “MetLife Assignment
Company, Inc.”
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 07/18/17
Subject matter: Settlement of a medical malpractice case.

17-4960
Case: Carter v. Bain
Case No: 16 C 6750
Settlement Amount: $20,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Brandon Carter and Theresa Byas
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5019
252

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Case: Orlando Dominguez v. Khan
Case No: 15 C 10850
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Luz Hernandez
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5020
Case: Battle v. Thomas, et al.
Case No: 16 C 2474
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Jovan Battle
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5053
Case: Higgins v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 6669
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Samuel Higgins
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-5057
Case: Purnell v. Dart et al.
Case No: 14 C 6638
Settlement Amount: $35,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: $15,000.00 to Cornelius Purnell; $20,000.00 to Thomas G. Morrissey, Ltd.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a violation of rights secured by the ADA

17-5066
253

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case: Gomez v. Cook County
Case No: 15 C 10338
Settlement Amount: $20,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Jesus Gomez
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5072
Case: Barron v. Nwaru, et al.
Case No: 16 C 10563
Settlement Amount: $2,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Juan Manuel Barron
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (PUBLIC SAFETY)
17-4467
Case: Mehta v. Evens, et. al.
Case No: 16 CV 11255
Settlement Amount: $3,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Avinash Mehta for the Benefit of Jigar Mehta
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4472
Case: Leyva v. Cook County, et al.
Case No: 15 C 9092
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Giovanni Leyva
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
254

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4474
Case: Brown v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 9971
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Emile Brown
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4491
Case: Bradley v. Oleksiak
Case No: 16 C 3173
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: DeAndre Bradley
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a Civil Rights Violation

17-4524
Case: Camacho v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 3396
Settlement Amount: $600.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Miguel Camacho
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4536
Case: Thomas Jr. v. Dart
Case No: 17 C 2788
Settlement Amount: $1,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Alonzo Corey Thomas, Jr.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
255

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4542
Case: Rodriguez v. Holstrom, et al.
Case No: 15 C 5001
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Juan C. Rodriguez
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4545
Case: Chester v Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 7525
Settlement Amount: $9,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Preston Chester and his attorney, Kevin E. Bry
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4549
Case: Warren v. Howard
Case No: 16 C 8235
Settlement Amount: $1,800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Frederick Warren
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4557
Case: Paul v. City of Chicago, et al.
Case No: 16 L 3886
Settlement Amount: $90,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Sherry Paul and Romanucci & Blandin, LLC
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Negligence
256

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-4560
Case: L.C. Archer v. Smith, et al.
Case No: 15 C 7826
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: L.C. Archer
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-4561
Case: Losoya v. CCDOC, et al.
Case No: 16 C 5012
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Leonard Losoya
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-4606
Case: Washington v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 7731
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Randy Washington
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-4657
Case: Vaia v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 6273
Settlement Amount: $30,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: $15,000.00 payable to Rick Vaia, and $15,000.00 payable to Thomas G. Morrissey, Ltd.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
257

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4661
Case: Dukes v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 4641
Settlement Amount: $350.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Alonzo Dukes
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-4684
Case: Croublet v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 10662
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Thomas G. Morrissey, Ltd. and Orlando Croublet
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4685
Case: Williams v. Walker, et al.
Case No: 16 C 11490
Settlement Amount: $15,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Nakia Geanes
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4689
Case: Lee v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 8732
Settlement Amount: $35,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Tobaree Lee and Dvorak Law Offices, LLC
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
258

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-4697
Case: Miller v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 17 C 2501
Settlement Amount: $1,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Jeron Miller
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4706
Case: Zayas v. Dart
Case No: 16 C 4906
Settlement Amount: $600.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Anthony Zayas
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation

17-4707
Case: Pinkney v. Dart
Case No: 16 C 8946
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: James Pinkney
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation

17-4718
Case: State Farm v. Ambrose et al.
Case No: 16 M1 10016
Settlement Amount: $1,929.83
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Brooks Law Firm, P.C.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
259

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Subject matter: Automobile accident

17-4725
Case: Browning v. Jones, et al.
Case No: 17 C 635
Settlement Amount: $600.00
Fixed Charges Department: (499) Public Safety
Payable to: Randall Browning
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4799
Case: Cook v. Ogungbemi, et al.
Case No: 16 C 1878
Settlement Amount: $850.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Bodey Cook
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4803
Case: Manuel v. County of Cook
Case No: 16 M1 302729
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Tonya Manuel
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation

17-4832
Case: Weatherspoon v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 5620
Settlement Amount: $3,100.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Larry Weatherspoon
260

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4868
Case: Garcia v. Medina, et al.
Case No: 15 C 8466
Settlement Amount: $875.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Osvaldo Rosa
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4869
Case: Parker v. Dart
Case No: 17 C 1419
Settlement Amount: $850.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Earline Parker
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4872
Case: Hardy v. Sheriff of Cook County, et al.
Case No: 16 C 3334
Settlement Amount: $60,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Clarence Hardy and Andreou & Casson, Ltd
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4876
Case: Reed v. Dart
Case No: 16 C 6680
Settlement Amount: $12,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Michael L. Reed and The Finn Law Firm
261

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4878
Case: Lewis v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 11367
Settlement Amount: $2,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Juan M. Lewis
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4903
Case: Robertson v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 4910
Settlement Amount: $500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Durrell Robertson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4910
Case: Smith v. Dart et al.
Case No: 16 C 4651
Settlement Amount: $50,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Steven Smith and Kenneth N. Flaxman P.C.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4911
Case: Vaughn v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 951
262

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Settlement Amount: $11,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Thomas Morrissey, Ltd. and Harold Vaughn
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of an ADA violation

17-4914
Case: Bradley v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 11181
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Deandre Bradley
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4948
Case: Jocelyn Gomez (pre-suit)
Case No: N/A
Settlement Amount: $9,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Disparti Law Group, PA on behalf of Ms. Jocelyn Gomez
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Motor vehicle accident

17-4962
Case: Batie v. Johnson
Case No: 14 C 2809
Settlement Amount: $7,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Tryzell Batie and Gingold Legal
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4993
263

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Case: Browner v. Gena et al.
Case No: 16 C 11056
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Corey Browner and Kenneth N. Flaxman, P.C.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4998
Case: Aviles v. Cook County Sheriff, et al.
Case No: 15 L 10280
Settlement Amount: $25,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Julio Aviles and Deutschman & Associates, P.C.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-4999
Case: Robinson v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16C2314
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Eddie Robinson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5013
Case: Eddye Whitney v. Ledvora, et al.
Case No: 14 C 9239
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Eddye Whitney
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

264

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-5014
Case: Robert Smith v. Tankson, et al.
Case No: 16 C 4902
Settlement Amount: $8,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Robert Smith
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5015
Case: Larry Brown v. Cook County, et al.
Case No: 15 C 7129
Settlement Amount: $3,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Larry Brown
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5016
Case: Martell McGrew v. Vose, et al.
Case No: 14 C 3035
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Martell McGrew
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5017
Case: Nicole Parker v. Cook County, et al.
Case No: 17 C 5017
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Nicole Parker and Kenneth N. Flaxman
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
265

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

17-5018
Case: Battle v. Brewer, et al.
Case No: 16 C 5957
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Jovan Battle
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5023
Case: Mohammad v. Officer Odeh, et al.
Case No: 16 C 1137
Settlement Amount: $6,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Mansour Mohammad
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation

17-5026
Case: Taylor v. Russel et al.
Case No: 16 C 10576
Settlement Amount: $9,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Geno Taylor and Loevy & Loevy
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5028
Case: Price v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 5064
Settlement Amount: $20,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Julius Price
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
266

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5029
Case: Wyma v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 16 C 4790
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Christopher Wyma
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violations

17-5033
Case: Griffin v. Dart, et. al.
Case No: 16 CV 10922
Settlement Amount: $750.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Eddie Griffin
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5037
Case: Tanase v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15C11871
Settlement Amount: $8,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Dreyer Foote Streit Furgason & Slocum, P.A. Client Trust Account on behalf of Ciprian
Tanase
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5052
Case: Cruz v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 12 C 6665
Settlement Amount: $90,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
267

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Payable to: Thomas E. Springer, Chapter 7 Trustee - In Re: Cruz 14-20798
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation.

17-5055
Case: Weathers v. Unseld
Case No: 16 CV 7118
Settlement Amount: $5,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Ricky Lee Weathers
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5056
Case: Carter v. Santana, et al.
Case No: 16 C 10914
Settlement Amount: $10,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Corrie Carter and Loevy & Loevy
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.

17-5059
Case: Abdelnabi v. Cook County et al.
Case No: 15 C 3161
Settlement Amount: $19,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Nahla Abdelnabi and Shiller Pryar Law Offices
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5062
Case: Moore v. Dr. Paul, et. al.
Case No: 15 CV 11743
Settlement Amount: $9,500.00
268

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Dennis Moore
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violations

17-5063
Case: Eggerson v. Chatman, et. al.
Case No: 16 CV 9076
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Nicole Johnson for the benefit of Dale Eggerson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5074
Case: Anderson v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15 C 11745
Settlement Amount: $4,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Seandell Anderson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5104
Case: Wade v. Dart
Case No: 17 C 2108
Settlement Amount: $1,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Isaiah Wade
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5109
Case: Darryl Carter v. Sheriff of Cook County et. al.
Case No: 15 C 1407
269

September 13, 2017

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Settlement Amount: $99,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Darryl Carter and his attorney Law Offices of Daniel Q. Herbert & Associates
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Settlement

17-5110
Case: Hurt v. Cook County, et al.
Case No: 16 C 5203
Settlement Amount: $1,600.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Randall Hurt, Jr.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation

17-5123
Case: Bolton v. Cook County
Case No: 16cv5012
Settlement Amount: $45,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Loevy and Loevy and Litroy Bolton
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violations

17-5125
Case: Solis v. Dart
Case No: 14cv5273
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Ignacio Solis
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violations

270

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

17-5127
Case: Shabazz v. Cusack, et al.
Case No: 15cv5694
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Edelson PC Client Funds Account
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violations

17-5184
Case: Angela Champs-Daniels v. Cook County Department of Corrections
Case No: 2017CA0014
Settlement Amount: $30,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Angela Champs-Daniels
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Plaintiff filed a complaint with the Illinois Department of Human Rights alleging racial
and age discrimination and retaliation for being subject to a fitness for duty evaluation and unfair
discipline in violation of the Illinois Human Rights Act.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims moved to approve all Proposed Settlements.
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
17-5078
The Department of Risk Management is submitting invoices totaling $11,174.28for payment of medical
bills for services rendered to patients while in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff’s Office. Bills are
submitted for payment after review and repricing. Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller in
ccordance with the submitted report prepared by the Department of Risk Management.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Patient
Arrestee Claims be approved. The motion carried.

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS

17-5084
271

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

The Department of Risk Management is submitting invoices totaling $2,320,748.68for payment of workers
compensation costs incurred by employees injured on duty including settlements within the grant of
authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the Department of Risk Management.
Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller in accordance with the submitted report prepared by
the Department of Risk Management.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Employees’
Injury Compensation Claims be approved. The motion carried.
REPORTS
CLAIMS RECOVERY SETTLEMENTS

17-4340
REPORT
Department: Department of Risk Management
Report Title: Subrogation Recoveries
Report Period: Period starting 07/01/17 and ending 08/31/2017
Summary: Submitting for your information, a summary of Claim Recoveries for the period ending
08/31/2017
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS

17-5099
REPORT
Department: Department of Risk Management
Report Title: Receive and File
Report Period: July and August 2017
272

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Summary: Submitting for your information, a summary of Liability Settlements for the months of July
and August 2017
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
COMPTROLLERS

17-4724
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Report Title: Analysis of Revenues and Expenses
Report Period: Period Ending 6/30/2017
Summary: Analysis of Revenues and Expenses for the Period Ended 6/30/2017 for the Corporate, Public
Safety and Health Funds, as presented by the Bureau of Finance.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.

HEALTH & HOSPITAL

17-1558
REPORT
Department: CCHHS
Request: Receive & File
Report Title: CCHHS Monthly Report
Report Period: September 2017
Summary: This report is provided in accordance with Resolution 14-4311 approved by the County Board
273

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

on 7/23/14.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
17-4263
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE,
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY ADOPTION AND
FAMILY SUPPORTIVE SERVICES ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VIII Adoption and Family Supportive Services, Section 38-173 of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 38-173. Fees.
The Department shall charge fees for the following services with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of this
Code.
(1)

Adoption Intake Interview - Initial meeting with prospective adoptive family providing an
overview of the adoption process, review of qualifications for adoption and implementation
of the process for criminal and DCFS background check.

(2)

Birth Parent Interview and Consent - interviewing and collecting information from the birth
parent and overview of the signature of documents that allow the birth parent(s) to
relinquish rights and responsibilities of the child to a specific person.

(3)

Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) - Retrieval and review of adoption file and
generating a report of non-identifying information.

(4)

Adoption Fingerprint Processing (paid by adoptive parent(s) - Assists attorneys and parents
with retrieval and processing of state and federal criminal background checks.

(5)

Foreign Jurisdiction Social Study Investigation Request (paid by individual residing
outside of the court’s jurisdiction) - Court of foreign jurisdiction (outside of Cook County)
informally requests that OFSS conduct a child custody social study investigation of a cook
county resident that includes interviews of all house hold household residents, Cook
274

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

County criminal background checks and DCFS background checks and retrieval of school
progress reports.
(6)

Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (Based on annual income of, and paid
by, adoptive parent(s) - Annual income shall be verified by either a current federal or state
tax return or current wages and tax statements, e.g., W-2 and/ or 1099 forms) -Includes
interview of all house hold household residents and child care providers of the adoptee;
retrieval of financial information, character and employment references, medical
information, school progress reports and other mandatory information integrated into a
written report concerning adoption proceedings.

All fees shall be collected by the Department and remitted to the Cook County Department of Revenue.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.
CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
38-173 (1)
38-173 (2)
38-173 (3)
38-173 (4)
38-173 (5)
38-173 (6)

Adoption Intake Interview
Birth Parent Interview and Consent
Adoption - Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee)
Adoption - Fingerprint Administrative Fee (paid by
adoptive parent(s)
Foreign Jurisdictional Social Study Investigation Request
(paid by individual residing outside of the jurisdiction)
Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (paid
by adoptive parent):

150.00
100.00 per hour
100.00
15.00
500.00

If Annual Income is:
Under 10,000.00
10,001 - 14,999
15,000 - 19,999
20,000 - 24,999
25,000 - 29,999
30,000 - 34,999
35,000 - 39,999
40,000 - 49,000
50,000 - 59,999
60,000 - 69,000
70,000 - 79,000
80,000 - 89,000

50.00
75 100.00
125 150.00
225 250.00
325 312.50
475 450.00
675 525.00
775 800.00
1,025 1,125.00
1,225 1,350.00
1,325 1,575.00
1,525 1,800.00
275

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

90,000 - 99,000
100,000 - 149,999
150,000 - 200,000
200,000 and above

September 13, 2017

1,675 2,025.00
2,025 2,250.00
2,250 3,375.00
3,025 4,500.00

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 13th of September 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Ordinance
be approved. The motion carried.

FISCAL YEAR AND CASES TO BE APPROVED TOTALS

APPELLATE CASES
APPELLATE CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
APPELLATE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$112,234.75
$30,489.81

CRIMINAL DIVISION
CRIMINAL DIVISION CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:

$755,565.58

CRIMINAL DIVISION CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$130,339.73

DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION
DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2017
TO PRESENT:

$9,362.47

DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION CASES APPROVED:

$1,457.50

276

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION
CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017
TO PRESENT:

$1,259,646.92

CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION CASES APPROVED:

$249,710.31

JUVENILE JUSTICE DIVISION
JUVENILE JUSTICE CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017
TO PRESENT:

$148,943.00

JUVENILE JUSTICE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

SPECIAL COURT CASES
SPECIAL COURT CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
SPECIAL COURT CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$21,071.25

$3,360,226.61
$609,841.86

SPECIAL CRIMINAL COURT CASES
NOTE: There are no SPECIAL CRIMINAL COURT CASES to be approved for this meeting.
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017:

$5,469,405.10

WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

$1,008,806.65

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (CORPORATE)
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (HEALTH)

$72,217.50
$3,189,500.00

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (PUBLIC SAFETY)
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS TOTALS TO BE APPROVED:

277

$844,904.83
$4,106,622.33

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT: $17,828,255.21
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

$260,348.63
$11,174.28

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017
TO PRESENT:

$9,403,527.85

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION TO BE APPROVED:

$2,320,748.68

RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2017

17-4805
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the special meeting held on 6/27/2017.
____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Report
be approved. The motion carried.

17-4806
278

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 6/28/2017.
____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Report
be approved. The motion carried.

17-4807
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the special Consent Calendar meeting held on 7/18/2017.
____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Report
be approved. The motion carried.

17-4808
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 7/19/2017.
____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Report
279

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

be approved. The motion carried.

ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2017

17-4477
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-21
Township: Stickney
County District: 11
Property Address: 7043 West 74th Place, Chicago, Illinois 60638
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.25 acre located on the south side
of 74th Place and approximately 51 feet east of Nottingham Avenue in Section 30.
Owner: SLigo 5 Inc., 12211 Baker Road, Manhattan, Illinois 60442
Agent/Attorney: Martin Vincent Igoe, 12211 Baker Road, Manhattan, Illinois 60442
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) reduce the lot area from the minimum required 10,000
square feet to an existing 6,557 square feet, (2) reduce the lot width from the minimum required 60 feet to
an existing 50 feet, (3) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum required 15 feet to a
proposed 5 feet, and (4) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum required 15 feet to a
proposed 5 feet. The variance is sought in order to bring existing lot conditions into compliance and to
allow for the construction of a single family residential dwelling.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions:

None

Objectors: None
280

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 7/12/2017
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 7/12/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.

17-4478
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-23
Township: Orland
County District: 17
Property Address: 15600 116th Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois 60467
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.29 acre located on the southwest
corner of 156th Street and 116th Avenue in Section 18.
Owner: Ernestina Buzo, 15600 116th Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois 60467
Agent/Attorney: PCG Consulting Inc. / Adrian Montano, 100 N. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) increase the height of a fence located in the corner side
yard from the maximum allowed 3 feet to an existing 6 feet and (2) reduce the interior yard setback from
the minimum required 3 feet to an existing 1.1 feet for a preexisting shed. The variance is sought in order
to bring existing lot conditions into compliance.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 7/12/2017
281

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Zoning Board Recommendation date: 7/12/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.
17-4479
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-26
Township: Worth
County District: 6
Property Address: 12701 South McVickers Avenue, Palos Heights, Illinois 60463
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.27 acre located on the southeast
corner of 127th Street and McVickers Avenue in Section 32.
Owner: Candice Klimson, 12701 South McVickers Avenue, Palos Heights, Illinois 60463
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of a fence located in the corner yard
from the maximum allowed 3 feet to a proposed 6 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 7/19/2017
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 7/19/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
282

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.
17-4480
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-21
Township: Orland
County District: 17
Property Address: 7801 W. 143rd Street, Orland Park, Illinois 60462
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 4.75 acres located on the south of
143rd Street and west of Harlem Avenue in Section 12.
Owner: Sabre Investments, LLC., P.O. Box 3074, Carbondale, Illinois 62902
Agent/Attorney: Jared C. Settle and Tracee L. Friederich, 10255 Hawthorne, Orland Park, Illinois 60462
Current Zoning: R-1 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to reduce the lot area from the minimum required 5 acres to 4.7
existing acres for a single family home and barn for four horses for private use. The request for the
variance is less than 10% of the requirement needed therefore qualifying it for an administrative adjustment.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation that the application be granted a one year extension of time.
Conditions:

None

Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 7/12/2017
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 7/12/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.
17-4602
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
283

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-22
Township: Schaumburg
County District: #15
Property Address: 1524 Marion Street, Schaumburg, Illinois 60193
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.45 acre located on the west side
of Marion Street and approximately 95 feet north of Pratt Boulevard in Section 34.
Owner: Kujtime Ahmeti, 1524 Marion Street, Schaumburg, Illinois 60193
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of a fence, located in the front yard from
the maximum allowed 3 feet to a proposed 5 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors:

None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 7/12/2017 (Applicant absent), 8/2/2017
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 8/2/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.

17-4603
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-27
284

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Township: Leyden
County District: 16
Property Address: 2156 Ruby Street, Melrose Park, Illinois 60164
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.26 acre located southwest corner
of Ruby Street and Palmer Avenue in Section 33.
Owner: Timothy Soszko, 2156 Ruby Street, Melrose Park, Illinois 60164
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of a fence located in the corner side yard
setback from the maximum allowed 3 feet to a proposed 4 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 8/2/2017
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 8/2/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.
17-4604
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 17-29
Township: Maine
County District: 9
Property Address: 2600 Golf Road, Glenview, Illinois 60025
285

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 7.92 acres located north side of
Golf Road and approximately 390 feet west of Julie Drive in Section 12.
Owner: Glenview Luxury Apartments LLC, 5005 W Touhy, Suite 200, Skokie, Illinois 60077
Agent/Attorney: Linda Nagle Esq., 5005 W Touhy, Suite 200, Skokie, Illinois 60077
Current Zoning: R-8 General Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of a fence located in the front yard from
the maximum allowed 3 feet to 5.8 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions:
Objectors:

None
None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 8/2/2017/
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 8/2/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, That the
Recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be approved. The motion carried.

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 13, 2017

17-1577
Presented by: TERRY MASON, MD, FACS, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Department of
Public Health
REPORT
Department: Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH)
Request: Receive & File
Report Title: CCDPH Quarterly Report
286

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Report Period: Quarterly
Summary: The Cook County Department of Public Health hereby presents its Quarterly Report to the
Cook County Board of Commissioners in their capacity as the Board of Health of Cook County.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Report be
approved. The motion carried.

NEW ITEMS
In accordance with Cook County Section 2-103(g) Amendment or suspension of rules, Commissioner
Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to suspend Section 2-105(h) Prior notice to public.
The motion carried.

17-5221
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Report Title: Analysis of Revenues and Expenses
Report Period: Period Ending 7/31/2017
Summary: Analysis of Revenues and Expenses for the Period Ended July 31, 2017 for the Corporate,
Public Safety and Health Funds, as presented by the Bureau of Finance.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.
17-5242
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY and JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY IDENTIFICATION CARD ORDINANCE
287

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, 6(6a)
under the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, the County of Cook may exercise any power and perform
any function relating to its government and affairs including the power to regulate for the protection of
the public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and
WHEREAS, certain populations such as the homeless and indigent, the disabled and elderly, aspiring
citizens and new Americans, children and students, runaway youth, formerly incarcerated individuals reentering society and domestic abuse victims have had and continue to have difficulties obtaining valid and
recognized form of identification; and
WHEREAS, not having a valid form of identification negatively impacts both public safety and the local
economy as the result of individuals being prevented from accessing essential governmental and private
sector services including law enforcement, financial institutions, jobs, housing as well as home and
workplace protections; and
WHEREAS, without appropriate identification, individuals are often reluctant to report crimes to the
police, to report labor and housing violations such as blighted properties, slum landlords, and workplace
health, safety, and wage violations to the appropriate authorities; and
WHEREAS, there are many interactions with County government, including the offices of the County
Clerk, Sheriff, Health and Hospital Systems and Clerk of the Court, which require an individual to
have appropriate forms of identification, many of which are unavailable to some individuals residing in
the County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County contains 132 individual municipalities, many of which require a valid and
recognized form of identification in order to access certain municipal services. None of these 132
municipalities currently issue a municipal identification card and only one, Chicago, has taken any steps
toward the creation of such a card; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is committed to providing all of its residents with fair and equal access to the
services it provides and other services available to the general public for which a valid and recognized
form of government identification is required; and
WHEREAS, the creation of a County Identification Card would address many of these issues thereby
allowing cardholders to more equally engage in society while additionally fostering a feeling of welcome
and inclusion; and
WHEREAS, neither Federal nor State law bars counties or municipalities from issuing their own ID
Cards to any resident; and
288

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, a number of other jurisdictions have established a municipal identification card program,
including but not limited to: New York City, New York, Los Angeles, California, San Francisco,
California, Washington, DC, Westchester County, New York, Mercer County, New Jersey, Washtenaw
County, Michigan and Johnson County, Iowa; and most recently, Chicago, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the County wishes to create a valid and recognized form of government identification for all
of its residents;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
42, Human Relations, Article II, Sec. 42-43 through 42-51 of the Cook County Code, are hereby enacted
as follows:
COOK COUNTY IDENTIFICATION CARD PROGRAM
Sec. 42-43. Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Ordinance Establishing the Cook County
Identification Card Program"
Sec. 42-44. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agency shall mean the Office of the County Clerk or any local government agency designated by the
Office of the County Clerk to issue a County Identification Card.
Director shall mean the County Clerk or his or her designee.
Entity That Receives County Funds shall mean any recipient of a contract, grant agreement, or loan
agreement from the County of Cook.
County Identification Card shall mean an identification card issued by the County of Cook that shall
display, including but not limited to, the cardholder's name, photograph, date of birth, an expiration date
and, at the Applicant's option, display the cardholder's self-designated gender.
Resident shall mean a person who can demonstrate that he or she has been present in the County of
Cook for at least fifteen continuous days and who presents Proof of Residency as set forth in Subsection
42-45(d).
Sec. 42-45. Issuance of County Identification Cards.
(a) Upon request, the Agency shall issue a County Identification Card to any Resident who meets the
application requirements set forth below in subsection (c) and (d) and pays the applicable fee. The Card
289

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

shall bear the seal of the County and the Director shall cause the Card to be processed in a Payment Card
Industry-compliant facility in a form intended to thwart replication or counterfeit. Cards shall be valid for
three years from the date of issuance as long as residence in the County is maintained during that time.
Cardholder data for the County Identification Card shall not be retained by the processing facility or the
County.
(b) To obtain a County Identification Card, a Resident shall complete an application as prescribed by
the Office of the Clerk which shall, at a minimum, establish both proof of identity and proof of residence
within the County. Upon receipt of sufficient proof of identity and residency as set forth herein, the Agency
shall cause a County Identification Card to be issued to the applicant within 10 business days after the
application is processed as set forth in Subsection 42-45 (a).
(c) All active-duty military, guard/reservists, and veterans with an honorable or general discharge that
are able to provide proper documentation of such, shall have an indicator of their military or veteran status
designated on the County Identification Card.
(d) Proof of Identity: In order to establish identity, each applicant must present either:
(1) One of the following documents containing both the applicant's photograph and date of birth: a
U.S. or foreign passport; a U.S. driver's license; a U.S. state identification card; a U.S. Permanent
Resident Card (commonly known as a "Green Card"); Certificate of Naturalization/Citizenship
with picture; current U.S. Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or work permit issued by
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) with a picture, date of birth and expiration
date; a consular identification ("CID") card or Matricula Consular as set forth in Sec. 2-4 of this
code. Notwithstanding the above, if the applicant is thirteen years of age or younger, he or she, as
an alternative, may present an original or certified copy of a U.S. or foreign birth certificate to
establish identity under this subsection; or
(2) Two of the following documents, provided that at least one form of identification shall display the
applicant's photograph: a national identification card with photo, name, address, date of birth, and
expiration date; a foreign driver's license; a U.S. or foreign military identification card; documents
issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS); a U.S. Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number (ITIN) authorization letter; an identification card issued by an Illinois
educational institution, including elementary, middle, secondary, and post-secondary schools; a
certified copy of a U.S. or foreign birth certificate; certificate of marriage or dissolution of
marriage; a court order issued by a state or federal court to verify a person's identity; a SSI or RSDI
award letter issued by the Social Security Administration or a Social Security card; employee
identification card from employer located in the U.S.; U.S. Union photo I.D.; discharge papers
from Cook County Jail or an Illinois State prison. Notwithstanding the above, where the applicant
is aged thirteen or under, he or she may in the alternative present an official medical record and/or
official school record to establish identity under this subsection, provided that at least one of the
two forms of identification presented shall display the applicant's date of birth.
(e) Proof of Residency:
290

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

(1) In order to establish residency, each applicant must present one of the following items, provided
that the item includes both the applicant's name and a residential address located within the County:
a mortgage statement within the last year or current residential property lease; a utility bill dated
within the last 30 days; a written verification issued by a properly-licensed supportive housing
facility, homeless shelter, hospital health clinic, or social services agency, confirming at least 15
days residency within the last year; a local property tax statement or mortgage payment receipt
dated within the last 30 days; a bank account statement dated within the last 30 days; proof of a
minor currently enrolled in a school located in the County; an employment pay stub dated within
the last 30 days; a jury summons or court order issued by a state or federal court dated within the
last 30 days; a federal or state income tax or refund statement dated within the last 30 days; or an
insurance bill (homeowner's, renter's, health, life or automobile insurance) dated within the last 30
days. If a certified copy of a marriage certificate is presented at the time of application, an applicant
may prove residency using documents bearing the name of his or her spouse.
(2) The Director may by regulation provide that where an applicant aged twelve or younger cannot
produce any of the items set forth in this Subsection (d)(1) in order to prove residency, a parent or
legal guardian may verify the applicant's residency, provided that the parent or guardian himself
or herself would be eligible for a County Identification Card.
(f) The Director may, by regulation, provide for acceptance of additional forms of Proof of Identity
and/or Proof of Residency, provided that the Director determines that such forms of proof are:
(1) Issued by a governmental entity; or
(2) Issued by an entity that takes reasonable steps to verify the identity and/or residency of the
individual to whom the item is issued; or
(3) Of a type that is normally accepted as proof of identity and/or proof of residency in the ordinary
course of business within Cook County.
(4) The Clerk shall provide an option for victims of domestic violence to designate an alternative
address, and alternative methods by which individuals who are homeless can establish residency
notwithstanding the lack of fixed address.
(f) An application submitted on behalf of a minor (12 or younger) must be completed and verified by
such minor's parent or legal guardian.
(g) The Agency shall keep confidential to the maximum extent permitted by applicable laws, the name,
photograph and address of persons applying for and receiving County Identification Cards along with the
date of issuance and expiration of such card. The Agency shall not retain records of applicants' Proof of
Residency or Proof of Identity. Third party FOIA requests or any other information request related to the
identity of cardholders shall be sent to and responded to by the Agency.
291

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Sec. 42-46. Counterfeit and fraudulent cards.
It shall be a violation of this section for any person or entity to do any of the following acts:
(a) To knowingly present false information to the County in the course of applying for a county
identification card.
(b) To alter, copy, or replicate a County Identification Card without the authority of the County.
(c) To use the county identification card issued to another person, with the intent to cause a third person
or entity to believe the holder of the card is the person to whom the card was issued.
Violations of this section shall be subject to a fine of $100.00 for each offense, revocation of the County
Identification Card, preclusion of applying for a County Identification Card for a period of five years and
shall be adjudicated pursuant to Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this
Code.
Sec. 42-47. Implementation.
The Director is authorized to adopt rules and regulations consistent with content and intent of this
Section in order to implement and administer the issuance of County Identification Cards. The Director
shall consult with the Cook County Commission on Human Rights Executive Director and with other
relevant departments in developing such rules and regulations. The Director shall require applicants to
declare the information provided in their applications under penalty of perjury. The Cook County
Commission on Human Rights Executive Director shall be responsible for coordinating with the Agency
and other County Departments for the promotion of the Cards and the development of additional uses for
the Card, including but not limited to entering into intergovernmental agreements with Cook County
municipalities and other governmental bodies encouraging such entities to accept a County Identification
Card as a recognized form of government identification. The Director is authorized to enter into such
intergovernmental agreements in order to increase access for holders of a Cook County ID to services and
privileges managed by those governmental bodies in addition to County services. In connection with such
intergovernmental agreements, the Director is authorized to enter into and execute all such other
instruments and to perform any and all acts, including the allocation and expenditure of properly authorized
funds, as shall be necessary or advisable in connection with the implementation of such intergovernmental
agreements and any renewals thereto.
Sec. 42-48. Fees.
The County shall charge a fee for each application submitted. Such fees shall not exceed the costs
reasonably associated with the production of the cards and administration of the program. The Director
shall, by regulation, provide for reduced application fees or waivers for low-income applicants who present
proof of income status in a form to be determined by the Director, and for seniors as well as military
personnel or veterans providing proof of such status. The fee will be set and published in Sec. 32-1. Fee
Schedule.
292

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Sec. 42-49. Acceptance by County Departments and Entities That Receive County Funds.
When requiring members of the public to provide identification or proof of residency in the County,
each County department and any municipality or Entities that receive County Funds shall accept a County
Identification Card as a valid form of government identification and as valid proof of residency in the
County, unless such County department or Entity has reasonable grounds for determining that the card is
counterfeit, altered, or improperly issued to the card holder, or that the individual presenting the card is
not the individual to whom it was issued.
Other than requiring the County and Entities that receive County Funds to accept the Card as proof of
identification and County residency, this Section is not intended to replace any other existing requirements
for issuance of other forms of identification in connection with the administration of County benefits and
services. The requirements of this Section do not apply under circumstances where (1) a Federal or State
statute, administrative regulation or directive, or court decision requires the County or Entity That Receives
County Funds to obtain different identification or proof of residence, (2) a Federal or State statute or
administrative regulation or directive preempts local regulation of identification or residency requirements,
or (3) the County or Entity that receives County Funds would be unable to comply with a condition imposed
by a funding source, which would cause the County or such Entity to lose funds from that source.
Sec. 42-50. Applicability.
This Section shall apply to all areas within Cook County, Illinois, except those areas which are
governed by an Ordinance of another governmental entity (which by law may not be superseded by this
Section).
Sec. 42-51. Severability.
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, subdivision or other part of this ordinance or its applications
shall be adjudged by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such order or
judgment shall not affect, impair, or otherwise invalidate the remainder of this ordinance which shall remain
in full force and effect except as limited by such order or judgment.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that the
Proposed Ordinance be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee.
The motion carried.
17-5249
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, PETER N. SILVESTRI and JESÚS G.
GARCÍA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
293

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
REGULATING REPORTS BY THE STATE’S ATTORNEY TO THE LITIGATION
COMMITTEE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article IV - Officers and Employees, Division 9 - State’s Attorneys, Subdivision 1 - In General, Section 2329 - State’s Attorney’s Reports to the Litigation Subcommittee is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-329. -State’s Attorney’s Reports to the Litigation Subcommittee
(a) Notice of Monetary Counterclaims and Fee Requests. When representing Cook County, Cook
County Departments or Officers, or any County Official in any civil legal action in State or Federal Court,
the State’s Attorney or a Special State’s Attorney shall provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee of
the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners (litigation Subcommittee) prior to
filing a monetary counterclaim, request for monetary sanctions, request for statutory reimbursement and/or
request for fees in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). If the State’s Attorney or Special
State’s Attorney is unable to provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee in advance of filing, the State’s
Attorney or Special State’s Attorney shall inform the Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee in advance of
filing and provide notice to the Litigation Subcommittee at its next scheduled meeting.
(b) Quarterly Inventory of Civil Actions. The State’s Attorney shall give a quarterly inventory report
to the Litigation Subcommittee of the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners of
all civil actions that Cook County is named as a party in all courts of State or Federal jurisdiction.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Proposed Ordinance be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee.
The motion carried.
17-4284
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AUTHORIZING SUPPLEMENTAL DOCUMENTS RELATIVE TO NAVISTAR RECOVERY
ZONE FACILITY BONDS
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A SUPPLEMENTAL
INDENTURE OF TRUST, SUPPLEMENTING AND AMENDING THE INDENTURE OF TRUST
294

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

SECURING $90,000,000 IN ORIGINAL AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF THE COUNTY OF
COOK, ILLINOIS RECOVERY ZONE FACILITY REVENUE BONDS (NAVISTAR
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION PROJECT) SERIES 2010; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION
AND DELIVERY OF AN AMENDMENT TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT WHICH PROVIDED FOR
THE LOAN OF THE PROCEEDS OF SAID BONDS TO NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL
CORPORATION; AND AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING RELATED MATTERS.
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois (the “Act”)
provides that “a County which has a Chief Executive officer elected by the electors of the County … (is) a
Home Rule Unit,” and The County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”) has a Chief Executive Officer elected
by the electors of the County and is therefore a home rule unit and, under the power granted by said Section
6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, as supplemented by the Local
Government Debt Reform Act, as amended, and the other Omnibus Bond Acts, as amended, may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the “Board”) has heretofore determined
that it is essential and necessary and in the best interests of the County and its residents that the County
relieve conditions of unemployment, maintain existing levels of employment, aid in the rehabilitation of
returning veterans, encourage the increase of industry and commerce within the County, increase the tax
base of the various municipalities within the County and permit the County to take as much advantage of
the provisions of Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as possible, which are all
declared to be public purposes and for the safety, benefit and welfare of the residents of the County; and
WHEREAS, the Congress of the United States adopted the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Act”), which authorized the issuance of “recovery zone facility bonds,” a
category of private activity tax-exempt bonds, and the Secretary of the United States Treasury awarded the
County a portion of a nationwide volume limitation for the issuance of recovery zone facility bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board heretofore determined by Ordinance No. 09-O-43, adopted July 2, 2009,
that the County qualified as a “recovery zone” as provided in the Stimulus Act, and to that end designated
the County as a recovery zone under the Stimulus Act; and
WHEREAS, on September 15, 2010, the Board approved the application of Navistar International
Corporation (the “Company”) for $90,000,000 of said volume limitation to finance the renovation,
expansion and equipping of the existing office and manufacturing plant of the Company located at 10400
West North Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Board by Ordinance No. 10-O-64, adopted October 5, 2010 (the “Bond
Ordinance”), authorized the issuance of not to exceed $90,000,000 in original aggregate principal amount
of its recovery zone facility revenue bonds to finance all or a portion of the costs of the Project; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Stimulus Act and
the Bond Ordinance, the County issued $90,000,000 in original aggregate principal amount of its Recovery
Zone Facility Revenue Bonds (Navistar International Corporation Project) Series 2010 (the “Series 2010
295

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Bonds”) under the Indenture of Trust dated as of October 1, 2010, as supplemented and amended by the
First Supplemental Indenture of Trust dated August 1, 2016 (as supplemented and amended, the
“Indenture”), between the County and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), and loaned the proceeds
from the sale of the Series 2010 Bonds to the Company pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated as of October
1, 2010 (the “Loan Agreement”), between the County and the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2010 Bonds are secured by the Indenture and, except to the extent payable
from Series 2010 Bonds proceeds or income from the temporary investment thereof, are payable solely
from the revenues and income and other amounts received by the County from the Company as described
in the Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to amend certain provisions of the Indenture and the Loan
Agreement with the consent of the owners of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the
Series 2010 Bonds now outstanding; and
WHEREAS, the Company has caused to be prepared and presented to the Board drafts of a Second
Supplemental Indenture of Trust (the “Supplemental Indenture”), supplementing and amending the
Indenture, and a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement Amendment,” and together
with the Supplemental Indenture, the “Document Amendments”), amending the Loan Agreement, for the
Board to approve and the County to enter into;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of County Commissioners of the County
of Cook, Illinois, as follows:
Section 1.The County is hereby authorized to enter into the Supplemental Indenture with the
Trustee in substantially the same form now before the Board; the form, terms and provisions of the
Supplemental Indenture be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved; the President of the Board or the
Chief Financial Officer of the County (each an “Authorized Officer”), be, and each of them hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and the County Clerk be, and hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the County to, the Supplemental
Indenture in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause the Supplemental Indenture
to be delivered to the Trustee in substantially the form now before the County or with such changes therein
as the Authorized Officer executing the same shall approve, such Authorized Officer’s execution thereof to
constitute conclusive evidence of such Authorized Officer’s approval and the County’s approval of any and
all changes or revisions therein from the form of such Supplemental Indenture now before the County;
when the Supplemental Indenture is executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the County as
hereinabove provided, the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Indenture, shall
be binding on the County; and from and after the execution and delivery of the Supplemental Indenture, the
officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such
acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Indenture as executed.
Section 2.The County is hereby authorized to enter into the Loan Agreement Amendment with the
Company in substantially the same form now before the County; the form, terms and provisions of the Loan
296

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Agreement Amendment be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved; either Authorized Officer of the
County be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute, and the County
Clerk be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the
County to, the Loan Agreement Amendment in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon
to cause the Loan Agreement Amendment to be delivered to the Company in substantially the same form
as now before the County or with such changes therein as the Authorized Officer executing the same shall
approve, such Authorized Officer’s execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such Authorized
Officer’s approval and the County’s approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the form of
the Loan Agreement now before the County; when the Loan Agreement Amendment is executed, attested,
sealed and delivered on behalf of the County as hereinabove provided, the Loan Agreement, as amended
by the Loan Agreement Amendment, will be binding on the County; and from and after the execution and
delivery of the Loan Agreement Amendment, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as
may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, as amended by the
Loan Agreement Amendment as executed.
Section 3.The designation by the Company of Nixon Peabody LLP as Bond Counsel with respect
to the Document Amendments is hereby approved by the Board. The Board hereby designates Charity &
Associates, P.C. as special counsel to the County (“County Special Counsel”) with respect to the Document
Amendments.
Section 4.The Company shall indemnify the County for its costs and expenses incurred in
connection with the actions requested by the Company with respect to the Document Amendments. In full
satisfaction of the Company’s obligations to indemnify the County for such costs and expenses, including
reasonable counsel fees, the Board hereby approves a fee payable to the County equal to 15 basis points
(.0015), calculated based on the outstanding principal amount of the Series 2010 Bonds, which fee shall be
payable to the County (net of the reasonable fees and expenses of County Special Counsel, which shall be
payable directly to County Special Counsel as directed by the County) by the Company upon execution and
delivery of the Document Amendments by the County at the written direction of the Company and subject
to the refinancing of certain other long-term indebtedness by the Company.
Section 5.All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Ordinance which are in conformity
with the purposes and intent of this Ordinance be, and the same hereby are, in all respects, ratified, approved
and confirmed.
Section 6.The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be separable, and if any section,
phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 7.All Ordinances, resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 8.This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as by law
provided.
297

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Proposed
Ordinance be referred the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-5286
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
VOLUME CAP LIMITED OBLIGATION REVENUE BOND ORDINANCE - HOUSING
AUTHORITY OF COOK COUNTY REDEVELOPMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, An Ordinance authorizing the County to issue its tax-exempt limited obligation
revenue bonds in one or more series in an aggregate amount not to exceed $32,000,000 to finance
multiple residential rental housing developments to be controlled by the Housing Authority of Cook
County (“HACC”) or one or more affiliated entities, to execute and deliver certain agreements in
connection therewith, to declare the intent of the County to use the proceeds of such bonds to
reimburse certain costs incurred with respect to such project, and certain other matters.
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois
(the “State”), the County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”) is a home rule unit of local government and as
such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, as pertains to County government and affairs, and as in the interests of the public
health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the County, it is necessary, prudent, or advisable that the
County promote affordable housing initiatives for the benefit of the County and its residents, especially
with respect to seniors, persons with special needs and other persons of low and moderate income, by the
issuance of limited obligation revenue bonds to finance such initiatives; and
WHEREAS the Board of Commissioners of the County (the “Board”) has not adopted any
ordinance, resolution, order or motion which restricts or limits the exercise of the home rule powers of the
County in the issuance of limited obligation revenue bonds for the purposes described above or which
provides any special rules or procedures for the exercise of such powers; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the law of the United States and the State, the County may, by securing
certain volume cap allocated to the State by the United States government, issue limited obligation revenue
bonds to finance the construction and rehabilitation of affordable housing, including rental housing, for
persons of low and moderate income within the County; and

298

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, revenue bonds associated with volume cap are limited obligation bonds that do not
constitute a general obligation or debt of the County; and
WHEREAS, on May 17, 2017, the Board authorized the President of the County Board (the
“President”), through a resolution, to secure from the State the County’s full portion of volume cap for
calendar year 2017, together with any necessary and available carryforward volume cap available from
calendar year 2016, in the amount of $10,497,000.00; and
WHEREAS, the President of the Board (the “President”) filed with the State such documents as
are necessary to secure said volume cap; and
WHEREAS, the Housing Authority of Cook County (“HACC”), a municipal corporation and body
corporate and politic, acting through one or more Illinois limited liability companies in which HACC shall
be the controlling and managing member (each a “Borrower” and collectively, the “Borrowers”) has
proposed to fully undertake and complete the rehabilitation of approximately seven hundred eighty-two
(782) residential dwelling units and certain functionally related and subordinate areas, including, but not
limited to land for resident activities and parking facilities, in eight separate buildings each commonly
known as and located at the addresses within the County listed below:

Common Name
Huntington Apartments
Wheeling Towers
Golden Towers I
Golden Towers II
Juniper Towers
Edward Brown Apartments
Turlington West Apartments
Richard Flowers Apartments

Location
9201 North Maryland Avenue, Niles, Illinois
200 North Milwaukee Avenue, Wheeling, Illinois
1704 East End, Chicago Heights, Illinois
1706 East End, Chicago Heights, Illinois
350 Juniper Street, Park Forest, Illinois
3210 West 139th Street, Robbins, Illinois
15306 West Robey Avenue, Harvey, Illinois
13900 South Grace Avenue, Robbins, Illinois

(each a “Project” and collectively, the “Projects”); and
WHEREAS, HACC, on behalf of the Borrowers, has requested that the County issue, from its
available volume cap, multi-family housing revenue bonds, notes or other indebtedness payable by the
Borrowers solely from the revenues of the Projects for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the costs
of the Projects, including, but not limited to, the costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the bonds,
funding a debt service reserve fund if deemed necessary, bond insurance, if deemed necessary, and
capitalized interest; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the purposes of promoting affordable rental housing initiatives for
the benefit of the County and its residents, especially with respect to seniors, persons with special needs
and other persons of low and moderate income, the County wishes to finance all or a portion of the costs of
the Projects, and to pay the costs of issuance of such revenue bonds of the County, by the sale and issuance
299

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

of its revenue bonds in one or more series, and by authorizing such actions as might be required to
implement such stated intentions; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with its powers as a home rule unit of local government
the County intends and is prepared to issue and sell one or more series of its Multifamily Housing Revenue
Bonds, Series 2017, with such further designations as are necessary to indicate the Projects being financed,
in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $32,000,000 (each a “Series” and collectively, the “Bonds”)
to obtain funds to finance a portion of the cost of the Projects, by making one or more loans (each a “Loan”
and collectively, the “Loans”) to the Borrowers, all under and in accordance with the Constitution and the
laws of the State; and
WHEREAS, it is intended that the interest on the Bonds will be excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes; and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to authorize the execution and
delivery of an Indenture of Trust, each by and between the County and a trustee acceptable to the County
(each a “Trustee” and collectively, the “Trustees”) for each Series (each an “Indenture” and collectively,
the “Indentures”); and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to authorize the execution and
delivery a Loan Agreement, each by and between the County and the applicable Borrower for the loan of
the proceeds of each Series to pay a portion of the costs of each Project (each a “Loan Agreement” and
collectively, the “Loan Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to authorize the execution and
delivery of a Regulatory Agreement, each by and among the County, the Trustee, and the applicable
Borrower, with respect to each Project (each a “Regulatory Agreement” and collectively, the “Regulatory
Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to authorize the execution and
delivery of a Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreement, each by and between the County and the Trustee,
with respect to each Series (each a “Tax Agreement” and collectively, the “Tax Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to authorize the execution and
delivery of a Bond Purchase Agreement, each by and among the County, the applicable Borrower and J.J.B.
Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, LLC and Cabrera Capital Markets, LLC (together, the “Underwriters”), who may act
as underwriters with respect to the Bonds or as placement agent in a private placement of the Bonds, with
respect to each Series (each a “Purchase Agreement” and collectively, the “Purchase Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, it is desirable and in the best interests of the County to approve the distribution and
delivery of a disclosure document necessary to offer the Bonds to potential purchasers and such disclosure
document may take the form of a Private Placement Memorandum, Limited Offering Memorandum,
Preliminary Official Statement and a final Official Statement, or similar disclosure document, each by the
300

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Bonds (each a “Disclosure Document” and
collectively, the “Disclosure Documents”) ; and
WHEREAS, the County has caused to be prepared for and presented (collectively, the County
Documents) forms of the following documents which the County proposes to approve the terms of and
enter into with respect to each Series of Bonds:
1.an Indenture (including therein the form of the Bonds); and
2.a Loan Agreement; and
3.a Regulatory Agreement; and
4.a Purchase Agreement; and
5.a Disclosure Document.
WHEREAS, it is intended that this Ordinance shall constitute a declaration of intent of the County
to reimburse certain eligible expenditures for the Projects made prior to the issuance of the Bonds from the
proceeds of the Bonds within the meaning of Section 1.150-2 of the Regulations of the United States
Department of Treasury, 26 C.F.R. 1.150-2 (the Treasury Regulations);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
THE COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS:
SECTION 1. The above recitals are expressly incorporated in and made a part of this Ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.
SECTION 2. The County hereby authorizes and approves the financing of the costs of the
acquisition, rehabilitation and installation of the Projects through the issuance of the Bonds in one or more
Series, in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture, and hereby determines that the financing
of the acquisition, rehabilitation and equipping of the Projects are in furtherance of the County’s public
purposes. It is a condition of this ordinance that the controlling managing member of each Borrower shall
be HACC.
SECTION 3. The County hereby authorizes the issuance of the Bonds in one or more Series and
the President or the Chief Financial Officer or Acting Chief Financial Officer of the County (the “Chief
Financial Officer”), or both, are hereby authorized to approve the final terms of the Bonds, such final terms
to be incorporated into the Indentures; provided, however, that the Bonds shall be offered only as current
interest Bonds, and the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds shall not exceed $32,000,000, the interest
rate or rates to be borne by each Series shall not exceed the interest rate of 7.00% per annum, the final
maturity date of each Series shall not exceed the date which is 32 years after the date of issuance thereof
and each Series may be subject to redemption under the conditions specified in the applicable Indenture at
a redemption price not to exceed 100% of the principal amount thereof.
Bonds of each Series may be sold at a premium or at a discount. If Bonds of any Series are sold
at a discount, the purchase price of such Series shall be not less than 98% of the par amount of such Series.
If the Bonds are offered at a premium, the premium on any Series of Bonds shall not exceed 25% of the par
301

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

amount of such Series. The amount of costs of issuance which may be paid from the proceeds of the Bonds
is limited to 2% of the proceeds in accordance with federal law.
Each Series and the interest thereon shall be a limited obligation of the County, payable solely from
the income and revenues to be derived by the County pursuant to the related Loan Agreement. Each Series
and the interest thereon shall never constitute a general obligation or debt of the County within the meaning
of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or a commitment to expend any of its funds other than (i)
the proceeds from the sale of such Series, (ii) the income and revenues derived by the County pursuant to
the related Loan Agreement, (iii) other amounts available under the related Indenture and (iv) moneys
arising out of the investment or reinvestment of such proceeds, income, revenues or receipts. Each
Indenture may provide a covenant that the County will pay amounts due and owing on the applicable Series
which remain unpaid from revenues derived from the related Loan Agreement; provided, however that such
covenant shall be subject to appropriation by the Board and shall only constitute a promise to place such
amounts into the annual budget of the County for consideration by the Board.
SECTION 4. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are hereby authorized to enter
into the Indentures, each in substantially the same form now before the Board and attached hereto as
Attachment A, and the form, terms and provisions of the Indentures are in all respects approved. The
President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are each authorized and empowered and directed to appoint
as Trustee a corporate trustee meeting the requirements set forth in the applicable Indenture. The President
or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are each authorized, empowered and directed to execute, and, if
required, the County Clerk is authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of
the County to, the Indentures in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause the
Indentures to be delivered to the applicable Trustee, each such Indenture (as executed) to constitute an
assignment and pledge for the security of the related Series issued thereunder of the revenues and receipts
to be received by the County under the related Loan Agreement and an assignment and pledge of the other
right, title and interest of the County thereunder, as described therein (with the exception of certain rights
to receive certain payments, indemnity and other rights as specified therein), such Indentures to be in
substantially the same form now before the Board or with such changes and revisions therein as the officer
executing such Indenture on behalf of the County shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute
conclusive evidence of such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the form of the
Indentures now before the Board. From and after the execution and delivery of the Indentures, the officers,
employees and agents of the County are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and
things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions
of the Indentures as executed. The Indentures shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this
Ordinance, and copies of the Indentures shall be placed in the official records of the County and shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the County.
SECTION 5. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are hereby authorized to enter
into the Loan Agreements, each in substantially the same form now before the Board and attached hereto
as Attachment B, and the form, terms and provisions of the Loan Agreements are in all respects approved.
The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are each authorized, empowered and directed to
execute the Loan Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause each
Loan Agreement to be delivered to the related Borrower, each Loan Agreement to provide for the loan of
302

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

the proceeds of the related Series of the Bonds to such Borrower and for the use of such proceeds for the
related Project in the manner and with the effect therein provided, such Loan Agreements to be in
substantially the same form now before the Board or with such changes and revisions therein as the officer
executing such Loan Agreement on behalf of the County shall approve, his or her execution thereof to
constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the form
of the Loan Agreements now before the Board. From and after the execution and delivery of the Loan
Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out
and comply with the provisions of the Loan Agreements as executed. The Loan Agreements shall
constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Ordinance, and copies of the Loan Agreements shall be placed
in the official records of the County and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the County.
SECTION 6. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are hereby authorized to enter
into each Regulatory Agreement with the Trustee and the related Borrower in substantially the same form
now before the Board and attached hereto as Attachment C. The form, terms and provisions of the
Regulatory Agreements are, in all respects approved. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both,
are each authorized, empowered and directed to execute, and, if required, the County Clerk is authorized,
empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the County to, the Regulatory Agreements
in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause each Regulatory Agreements to be
delivered to the Trustee and the related Borrower, in substantially the same form as now before the Board
or with such changes or revisions therein as the officer executing each Regulatory Agreement on behalf of
the County shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of his approval of
any and all changes or revisions therein from the form of the Regulatory Agreement now before the Board.
From and after the execution and delivery of the Regulatory Agreements, the officers, employees and agents
of the County are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute
all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Regulatory
Agreements as executed. The Regulatory Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this
Ordinance, and copies of the Regulatory Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the County,
and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the County.
SECTION 7. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are hereby authorized to enter
into each Tax Agreement with the Trustee and the related Borrower in substantially the form and content
typically executed by the County for transactions of a nature similar to the financing of the Projects. The
form, terms and provisions of the Tax Agreements are in all respects approved. The President or the Chief
Financial Officer, or both, are each authorized, empowered and directed to execute, and, if required, the
County Clerk is authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the County to,
the Tax Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause each Tax
Agreement to be delivered to the Trustee and the related Borrower, his or her execution thereof to constitute
conclusive evidence of his approval of the terms of such Tax Agreement. From and after the execution
and delivery of the Tax Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as
may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Tax Agreements as executed. The
Tax Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Ordinance, and copies of the Tax
303

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the County, and shall be available for public inspection
at the office of the County.
SECTION 8. The form of the Bonds contained in the Indenture now before the Board, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Indentures (each as
executed and delivered) is hereby approved. The Bonds shall be executed in the name, for and on behalf
of the County with the manual or facsimile signature of the President and attested with the manual or
facsimile signature of the County Clerk and the official seal of the County shall be impressed or imprinted
thereon.
SECTION 9. The County is hereby authorized to enter into each Bond Purchase Agreement with
the related Borrower and the Underwriters in substantially the same form now before the Board and attached
hereto as Attachment D, and the form, terms and provisions of the Bond Purchase Agreements now before
the County are in all respects approved. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are each
authorized, empowered and directed to execute the Purchase Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of
the County, and thereupon to cause each Purchase Agreement to be delivered to the related Borrower and
the Underwriters, each Purchase Agreement to provide for the issuance and sale of the related Series of the
Bonds, such Purchase Agreements to be in substantially the same form now before the Board or with such
changes and revisions therein as the officer executing each Purchase Agreement on behalf of the County
shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of any and
all changes or revisions therein from the form of the Purchase Agreements now before the Board and
conclusive evidence of such approval of the final principal amounts, final maturities and redemption
provisions for the related Series of Bonds. From and after the execution and delivery of the Purchase
Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out
and comply with the provisions of the Loan Agreements as executed. The Purchase Agreements shall
constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Ordinance, and copies of the Purchase Agreements shall be
placed in the official records of the County and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
County.
SECTION 10. The distribution of the Disclosure Documents by the Underwriters is hereby
approved, such Disclosure Documents to be in substantially the same form as the Disclosure Documents
now before the Board and attached hereto as Attachment E with such changes therein as shall be approved
by the President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or
both, are authorized, empowered and directed to certify that the information contained in the Disclosure
Documents under the headings “THE COUNTY” and “LITIGATION-The County,” to the extent such
information pertains to the County, is in a form “deemed final” by the County for purposes of Rule 15c212 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SECTION 11. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are authorized and directed
to assign up to $32,000,000 in volume cap to the Bonds, representing volume cap allocated to and reserved
by the County in calendar year 2016 and carried forward to calendar 2017 or allocated to and reserved by
the County in calendar year 2017. The President or the Chief Financial Officer, or both, are authorized to
seek additional volume cap allocation if deemed necessary to effect the purposes of this ordinance.
304

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

SECTION 12. The President or the Chief Financial Officer and any other officer, employee or
agent of the County are authorized and directed to execute, attest, seal and deliver any and all documents
and certificates, and to do any and all things deemed necessary to effect the issuance and sale of the Bonds
and the execution and delivery of the Indentures, the Loan Agreements, the Regulatory Agreements, the
Tax Agreements and such other instruments, and to perform the obligations and duties of the County
hereunder and thereunder, all as shall be necessary and desirable to carry out the intent and purposes of this
Ordinance, including the preambles to this Ordinance. In addition, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer and any other officer, employee or agent of the County are authorized to obtain bond insurance and
to establish a debt service reserve fund under any Indenture, if deemed necessary or in the best interests of
the County.
SECTION 13. Certain costs have been incurred as of the date this ordinance was approved or
will be incurred by the Borrowers, or entities affiliated with or related to the Borrowers, in connection with
the Projects prior to the issuance of the Bonds. The County reasonably expects to reimburse such costs with
proceeds of the Bonds, to the extent permitted under federal law.
SECTION 14. The costs of the Projects to be reimbursed from the proceeds of the Bonds will
initially be paid from funds of the Borrowers, or entities affiliated with or related to the Borrowers, which
have been allocated to other purposes.
SECTION 15. This Ordinance is consistent with the budgetary and financial circumstances of
the County. No funds from sources other than the Bonds are or are reasonably expected to be, reserved,
allocated on a long-term basis or otherwise set aside by the County for costs of the Projects to be paid from
the proceeds of the Bonds.
SECTION 16. This Ordinance constitutes a declaration of official intent of the County with
respect to the Projects under Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations.
SECTION 17. The President, or such person designated by him or her in writing (a Public
Hearing Officer), is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to cause notice to the public of a public
hearing on the plan of financing for the Projects to be published, such notice to be published at a time and
in a manner determined by the Public Hearing Officer to be appropriate and at least 14 days prior to the
date on which such public hearing is to be held; and the Public Hearing Officer, or any officer, employee
or agent of the County designated by the Public Hearing Officer, is further authorized, empowered and
directed to hold the public hearing referred to in said notice.
SECTION 18. All acts of the County and the members, officers, agents and employees of the
County that are in conformity with the intent and purposes of this Ordinance, whether heretofore or
hereafter taken or done, be, and the same are hereby, in all respects, ratified, confirmed and approved.
SECTION 19. The selection of the following party or parties in the capacity as indicated and for
the purpose of assisting with the issuance of the Bonds to be determined by the President and the Chief
Financial Officer from time to time is hereby expressly approved:
305

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Capacity

Party or Parties

Senior Manager

J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons, LLC

Co-Manager

Cabrera Capital Markets, LLC

Bond Counsel

Pugh Jones & Johnson, P.C.

Underwriters’ Counsel

Schiff Hardin LLP

SECTION 20. The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be separable, and if any
section, phrase or provision shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION 21. All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed. If any section, paragraph,
clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph, clause
or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION 22. This Ordinance shall be effective as of the date of its passage and approval.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Proposed
Ordinance to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-5293
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SECONDHAND SALES OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses, Permits and
Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article XIII Secondhand Sales of Wireless Communications Devices,
Sections 54-421 to 54-423 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 54-421. Definitions.
Secondhand Dealer means any person who engages in the business of purchasing, selling, receiving,
trading, consignment selling or otherwise transferring for value any secondhand property.
306

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

Wireless communication device means any device through which personal wireless services, as defined in
47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(C)(i), are transmitted.
Secondhand property means any previously owned audio-video equipment; construction materials,
including, but not limited to, plumbing, electrical, roofing, masonry and carpentry supplies; jewelry or
watch made of precious metal or precious stone or gem; article made of precious metal or precious stone
or gem; sporting or athletic gear or equipment, including a bicycle; or currency.
Sec. 54-422. Registry Search Required.
No secondhand dealer shall purchase, take or receive from any person in pawn or pledge, for money loaned,
any cell phone whose make, model and serial number is identified in a stolen cell phone database. Before
purchasing, taking or receiving from any person in pawn or pledge, for money loaned, any cell phone, the
secondhand dealer shall check the stolen cell phone database to verify that the cell phone is not a stolen or
lost cell phone, and shall record in an inventory log the date and time of such verification, the make, model
and serial number of the cell phone, and a unique inventory number for each such cell phone.
Sec. 54-423. Violation
Any person who violates the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $1000.00 nor more than $2,000.00 for each offense. All actions seeking the imposition of fines only
shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure,
Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 110, Section 1-101, et seq. (1985), as amended. Each purchase, use,
sale, gift or transfer of any such replica firearm shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense, and each
day a person unlawfully engages in the business of selling or exhibits for sale any such replica firearm
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2018.
________________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that the
Proposed Ordinance be referred to the Technology and Innovation Committee. The motion carried.

17-5294
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX LOAN FUND

307

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, Cook County is home to more than five million people and collects property taxes on each
parcel of property on behalf of taxing districts across the county, and
WHEREAS, the Treasurer’s Office, as required by state statute, puts unpaid taxes up for sale if
homeowners cannot pay their bill, and
WHEREAS, homeowners whose taxes are sold have a limited amount of time to cover the unpaid tax an
exuberant fees and interest, and
WHEREAS, if homeowners fail to pay their back taxes and the fees and interest, they face the likely
possibility that the tax buyer will take possession of their home.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74, Taxation, Article
XXIII Cook County Property Tax Loan Fund, Sections 74-860 to 74-864 of the Cook County Code is
hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 74-860. Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited to as the “Cook County Property Tax Loan Fund”.
Sec. 74-861. Definitions.
Eligible resident shall mean a homeowner in Cook County
Eligible property shall mean the eligible resident’s primary residence
Hardship shall mean a life-altering event that temporarily prevents a homeowner from being able to pay a
property tax bill.
Equity shall mean the property currently has no liens or any liens it does have are less than the amount of
the tax bill.
Loan length shall mean the amount of time the homeowner has to repay the fund.
Sec. 74-862. Eligible residents.
Any homeowner in Cook County may apply to the fund once it becomes apparent that they will be unable
to pay a property tax bill.
Sec. 74-863. Terms and conditions.
Eligible residents may apply to the Cook County Treasurer’s Office with sufficient documentation showing
the hardship and that there is no lien or mortgage on the eligible property that is more than the tax bill the
308

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

eligible resident is unable to pay. The county will loan the eligible resident the money to cover the tax bill.
The full amount of the loan becomes due after four years. There is no interest on the loan.
Sec. 74-864. Fund.
The County Treasurer shall create a fund and the County Board shall determine a funding source to establish
the loan program.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect July 1, 2018.
____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that the Proposed
Ordinance be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-5295
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, BRIDGET GAINER, JOHN P. DALEY, RICHARD R. BOYKIN,
DENNIS DEER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, GREGG GOSLIN, EDWARD M. MOODY and PETER N.
SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING THE BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES TO PROVIDE
FISCAL IMPACT NOTES ON COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 - Human Resources,
Article II - Personnel Policies, Section 44-57 - Fiscal Impact Notes on Collective Bargaining Agreements
is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 44-57 - Fiscal Impact Notes on Collective Bargaining Agreements
At the of introduction of a proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement to the Board of Commissioners, the
Bureau of Human Resources shall provide to the Board of Commissioners the following:
(1) The Collective Bargaining Agreement currently in effect for the Bargaining Unit; and
(2) The proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement; and
(3) An explanatory fiscal note which shall include a reliable estimate of the fiscal impact of
proposed changes in the agreement upon the County's annual budget, including, but not
limited to, the following areas:
a. Any and all economic changes in the Agreement, including changes in wages,
healthcare and/or dental contracts, benefit provisions, leave provisions (including
309

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

injured, sick, vacation, holiday and personal leave), promotion and transfer provisions,
leave of absence provisions, maternity/paternity leave, leave under the United States
Family and Medical Leave Act, retirement benefits, death benefits, tools, uniform
provisions and safety equipment and overtime; and
b. Any and all work rule changes in the Agreement, including, but not limited to, changes
in mandatory duties, roll calls, seniority provisions, probationary periods, check off,
agency fee special assessments and grievance and arbitration procedures;
(4) Any third party analysis, prepared for or by the County, of the proposed Agreement.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Proposed Ordinance be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-5296
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI and LUIS ARROYO JR, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION CALLING FOR THE PASSAGE OF ILLINOIS HOUSE BILL 40
WHEREAS, Cook County government has a public health mandate and funds the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System which delivers integrated health services with dignity and respect to all residents;
and,
WHEREAS, The Cook County Health and Hospitals System services over 300,000 individuals every year;
and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System is building a state of the art Women and
Children’s Center at Stroger Hospital to better serve this often underserved population; and,
WHEREAS, Cook County recognizes the importance of a woman’s right to make health care choices
including, reproductive health, that best serves her and her family; and,
WHEREAS, In Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruled that this right is protected by the Constitution of the
United States; and,
WHEREAS, In response to Roe vs. Wade, the Illinois General Assembly enacted a law in 1975 that would
trigger language making abortion illegal in Illinois if Roe v. Wade was ever reversed; and,
310

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, Illinois law also denies health insurance coverage for abortions for women covered by
Medicaid or state employee health insurance; and,
WHEREAS, Illinois House Bill 40 respects the rights of individuals to make their own family planning
decisions by removing both the trigger language and the discriminatory insurance coverage provisions; and,
WHEREAS, Passage of House Bill 40 is of critical importance because the current administration has
made statements about appointing Justices to the Supreme Court who would be open to reversing Roe v.
Wade, creating a real danger that the trigger language would become effective; and,
WHEREAS, Removal of the trigger language is necessary to safeguard a woman’s right to make her own
choices about her health; and,
WHEREAS, All women should have access to comprehensive health care, regardless of whether they have
private or government-funded health insurance.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That we, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, do
hereby affirm our commitment to a woman’s right to make her own reproductive health choices, and to
have health insurance coverage for the option she chooses; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That we call upon the Governor, upon receipt of this important
legislation, to promptly sign House Bill 40 into law as it was passed by the Illinois General Assembly; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That suitable copies of this resolution be presented to the Governor of
Illinois, the President of the Illinois Senate, the Minority Leader of the Illinois Senate, the Speaker of the
Illinois House of Representatives, and the Minority Leader of the Illinois House of Representatives, as a
sign of our commitment to this important issue.
__________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that the
Proposed Resolution be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee.
The motion carried.
17-5300
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER and JOHN P. DALEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION APPROVING A CERTAIN REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT AND BUDGET
TRANSFER FOR THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY

311

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chap. 103, Art. 1, Sec. 103-1, et seq., of the Cook County Code of Ordinances
(“CCLBA Ordinance”), the Cook County Board of Commissioners established the Cook County Land Bank
Authority (“CCLBA”) to facilitate the return of vacant, abandoned and tax-delinquent properties to
productive use thereby combating community deterioration, creating economic growth and stabilizing the
housing and job market, and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 103-41(f) of the CCLBA Ordinance, CCLBA has authority to borrow
money from private lenders, subject to the approval of the County Board, to further or carry out CCLBA’s
public purpose by executing leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of notes, loan
agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other
agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable in the judgment of CCLBA, to evidence and to
provide security for such borrowing; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 103-41(n) of the Ordinance, CCLBA has the authority to enter into
contracts and other instruments necessary, incidental, or convenient to the performance of its duties and the
exercise of its powers; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 103-41(z) of the Ordinance, CCLBA has the authority to do all things
necessary or convenient to achieve the objectives and purposes of CCLBA; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners finds that a revolving line of credit from Chicago
Community Loan Fund in an amount not to exceed Three Million and No/100th dollars ($3,000,000.00),
for the acquisition of properties, from various sources, including but not limited to the National Community
Stabilization Trust (NCST) in low-to- moderate (LMI) communities in Cook County, is necessary and
convenient to further the objectives and purposes of the CCLBA;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby
approves and authorizes the following:
1. Approval of CCLF Revolving Line of Credit. The Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby
approves and authorizes the acceptance of a revolving line of credit from Chicago Community Loan Fund
in an amount not to exceed Three Million and No/100th dollars ($3,000,000.00) (“CCLF Revolving Line
of Credit”), in accordance with the terms set forth in the Loan and Security Agreement between County of
Cook d/b/a Cook County Land Bank Authority and The Chicago Community Loan Fund, attached hereto
and incorporated herein as Exhibit A, for the acquisition of properties, from various sources, including but
not limited to the National Community Stabilization Trust (NCST) in low-to-moderate (LMI) communities
in Cook County.
2. Authorization to Execute All Necessary Agreements and Documents. The Cook County Board of
Commissioners hereby approves and authorizes the CCLBA Executive Director to execute all loan
agreements, mortgages, UCC Financing Statements, and other documents and instruments necessary and
convenient to accept the CCLF Revolving Line of Credit, and to take any actions necessary to comply with
any term or provision of any loan agreement, mortgage or other document or instrument executed in
furtherance of CCLBA’s acceptance and use of the CCLF Revolving Line of Credit.
312

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

September 13, 2017

3. Approval of Budget Transfer. The Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby approves a Fiscal Year
2017 Budget transfer in an amount not to exceed Three Million, One Hundred and Eighty Thousand and
No/100th dollars ($3,180,000.00) from Fund: 11274, Department: 1586, Program: 10155, Object Account:
580170, Interfund: 00000, Future: 00000 (“CCLBA Acquisition Fund”), to Fund: 11274, Department:
1586, Program: 10155, Object Account: 580200 (“CCLBA Debt Service Fund”).
4. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect as of the date of approval and adoption
set forth below.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that the Proposed
Resolution be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT
*****
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the meeting
do now adjourn to meet again at the same time and same place on October 11, 2017, in accordance
with County Board Resolution 17-0615.
The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

313

 