Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Veterans Committee
Wednesday, March 2, 2016

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-1877
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/19/2015

16-1545
Sponsored by: LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,SEAN
M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS TO PASS THE “RECOGNIZE, ASSIST, INCLUDE,
SUPPORT AND ENGAGE (RAISE) FAMILY CAREGIVERS ACT”
WHEREAS, across the country, more than 40 million Americans selflessly dedicate themselves to providing
unpaid care for older parents, spouses, children with disabilities, disabled veterans and other loved ones; and

Page 1 of 2

 WHEREAS, by providing much-needed help with daily activities such as bathing, dressing, meal preparation,
managing medications, transportation, and more, family caregivers have become the backbone of care in America;
and
WHEREAS, on July 16, 2015, the Recognize, Assist, Include, Support and Engage (RAISE) Family Caregivers
Act, (H.R.3099 - RAISE Family Caregivers Act) was introduced in Congress and would require the development of
a strategy that would identify specific actions that government, communities, providers, employers, and others can
take to recognize and support family caregivers; and
WHEREAS, H.R. 3099 - RAISE Family Caregivers Act directs the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) to develop, maintain, and periodically update a National Family Caregiving Strategy; and
WHEREAS, the approval of this bill would help disabled and older Americans live at home, where they want to
be by
• Promoting greater adoption of person- and family-centered care in all health and Long Term Service and
Support (LTSS) settings
• Offering assessment and service planning (including care transitions and coordination) involving care
recipients and family caregivers
• Providing training and other supports
• Providing information, education, referral and care coordination
• Offering respite options
• Contribution to financial security
• Promoting workplace policies and supports that allow family caregivers to remain in the workplace; and
WHEREAS, on November 16, 2015 the H.R. 3099 - RAISE Family Act was referred to the Subcommittee on Early
Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education for consideration; and
WHEREAS, many Americans have been or will be family caregivers or are likely to need the help of someone to
live independently in their homes and communities; and
WHEREAS, supporting caregivers is a bipartisan issue that touches almost every family.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners do hereby recognize and support the contributions that roughly 40 million family caregivers make
every day; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and Members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
do hereby urge the United States Congress to pass H.R. 3099 - RAISE Family Act; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable Body and
copies of this resolution be presented to Rep. Paul D. Ryan, Speaker of the House; Rep. Kevin McCarthy, Majority
Leader; and Rep. Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader.
Legislative History: 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Veterans Committee
_________________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice Chairman: Moore
Members:
Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Schneider, Suffredin
Page 2 of 2

 