 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Capital Improvements Committee

Tuesday, December 3, 2013 1:45 PM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

The recessed meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County held on
Tuesday, October 1, 2013 will reconvene on the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the speci?ed time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise
when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use
vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

13-1372
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Flaming and Policy
Transmitting a Communication from

JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy

requesting approval and execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the County of Cook, a body politic
and corporate of the State of Illinois, on behalf of the Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy (OCPP) and the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System and the Illinois Medical District Commission (IMDC), a body
politic and corporate and unit of local government of the State of Illinois.

Per Article VII, Section 10 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS
220/1 et seq.), and other applicable law, units of local government are permitted to cooperate with and support
each other in exercise of their authority and the performance of their responsibilities.

The purpose of the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (?Agreement?) will be to allow the IMDC, OCPP and
to collaborate on redevelopment opportunities within the Illinois Medical District, to better account for
existing and future needs of the County and as well as the IMDC, including but not limited to the best
and highest uses for the County, and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical District.

The Agreement will also promote quality comprehensive re-development opportunities for the County, 
and the IMDC within the Illinois Medical District. The Agreement between the County and the IMDC allows for
the exploration of redevelopment opportunities and will allow the parties to determine strategies to enhance the
services provided to the medical district community, develop a vibrant mixed-use campus for and the
surrounding IMDC community, and bene?t the overall medical district community.

The Agreement shall commence upon execution by all parties and shall be effective for a period of two (2) years
thereafter. This Agreement may be extended or amended upon the mutual written agreement of the parties.
Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing the other party with thirty (30) days prior
written notice of such termination.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Capital Improvements
Committee.

l3-2110

Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy

PROPOSED CONTRACT

Department(s): The Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy on behalf of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Midway Moving and Storage, Chicago, Illinois

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Of?cer to enter into and execute.

Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services

Contract Value: $6,305,610.00

Contract period: Three (3) Years from Notice to Proceed Date.

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2013: $697,684.00; FY2014: $1,126,800.00; FY2015:
$2,240,563.00; FY2016: $2,240,563.00

Accounts: 499-260

Contract Number(s): 1323-12809

Page 2 of 3

Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Of?ce of the Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Summary: An Invitation for Bid was issued for Countywide Warehouse and Records Storage Move. A
competitive bid process was followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Midway Moving
and Storage Inc., Chicago, Illinois was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is recommended for

this award. The intent of this project is to centralize the Clerks ?les and evidence into one warehouse location.
The work requires that the Contractor provide new boxes as speci?ed for all ?le storage and transfer all ?les into
new boxes prior to the move. The Contractor will be required to provide all equipment and personnel necessary
to re-box, tag, pack, track, move, and place items at the Cicero Records Center. The Clerk will provide one staff
member to manage the move and scheduling.

Legislative History: 11/13/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Capital Improvements

?ii/3%

S?gretary

Committee.

 

Chairman: Murphy
Vice Chairman: Butler
Members: Garcia, Gorman, Moore, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

