Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, July 19, 2017

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-4403
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/7/2017
17-3303
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENT CLASSES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter Chapter 74 - Taxation,
Article II - Real Property Taxation, Division 2 - Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-63 Assessment Classes of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Page 1 of 3

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:

(1)

Class 1. Unimproved real estate.

(2)

Class 2. Real estate:
a. Used as a farm;
b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, a licensed bed and breakfast (as established under 50 ILCS
820/1 et.seq., the Illinois Bed and Breakfast Act) with six apartment units or less, or
residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a government subsidized housing
project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest assessment category;
c. Used as a licensed bed and breakfast, as defined under the laws of the Cook County
municipality where the entity is situated, and registered as a Bed & Breakfast with the
State of Illinois, shall be assessed as residential 2-12 or in the current assessment
classification if lower.
c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units
where the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or
d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division,
provided that:
1. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than
80 percent of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for
Single Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter "FMR schedule");
2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the
current FMR schedule;
3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in
the building shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and
4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety
and health codes and requirements.
In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2
classification shall be revoked.

Page 2 of 3

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

July 19, 2017

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

5/10/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernment

 