POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

County Board Room, County Building

Tuesday, June 17, 2008 10:00 A.M.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool,
Collins, Daley, Goslin, Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy,
Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Sims (1)

(Matters referred to Committee are available from the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners)

 POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Tuesday, June 17, 2008, 10:00 A.M.
****************************

PRESIDENT
APPOINTMENT
ITEM #1
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL &
VETERANS RELATIONS #294588
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 9, 2008 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Pursuant to Chapter 2, Section 2-411 of the Cook County Code, I hereby appoint John R. Morales to the
position of County Comptroller, effective immediately.
Mr. Morales has twenty-eight years experience in financial and operations administration in the public
and private sector. Most recently, he has held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Stroger Hospital
of Cook County. Prior to that, he served as Chief Financial Officer for the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Cook County. In the private sector he has served in several key positions, including that of Senior
Auditor and Management Consultant for Ernst & Young LLP.
Mr. Morales’ experience in financial and operations administration in the public and private sector will be
an asset to the Cook County Bureau of Finance.
I submit this communication for your approval.
REAPPOINTMENT
ITEM #2
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL &
VETERANS RELATIONS #294589
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 10, 2008 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Sean McDermott to the Justice Willow Springs Water Commission for a term to begin
immediately and expire on April 1, 2014.
I submit this communication for your approval.
ORDINANCE
ITEM #3
APPROVED
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
approved and adopted. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as
follows:
ROLL CALL ON THE MOTION TO APPROVE THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Yeas:

Beavers, Butler, Collins, Daley, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Steele, President Stroger* - 9.

Nays:

Claypool, Gorman, Goslin, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin - 8.

Absent:

Sims - 1.

*With a vote of eight (8) yeas; eight (8) nays; and one (1) absent, President Stroger cast a vote of yea.
The motion to approve CARRIED.
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Claypool, moved to appeal the ruling of the Chair and
requested a Roll Call. On the question of whether to sustain the ruling of the Chair, a Roll Call was
taken, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

 page 2
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
ROLL CALL TO SUSTAIN
THE RULING OF THE CHAIR
Yeas:

Beavers, Butler, Collins, Daley, Goslin, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Silvestri, Steele - 10.

Nays:

Claypool, Gorman, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Suffredin - 6.

Absent:

Sims - 1.

The motion to sustain the ruling of the Chair CARRIED.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved to reconsider the vote by which the
Proposed Ordinance was approved and adopted. Commissioner Daley called for a Roll Call, the vote of
yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON THE MOTION TO RECONSIDER
Yeas:

Claypool, Gorman, Goslin, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin - 8.

Nays:

Beavers, Butler, Collins, Daley, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Steele and President Stroger 9.

Absent:

Sims - 1.

The motion to reconsider FAILED and the Proposed Ordinance was APPROVED AND
ADOPTED.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
An Ordinance providing for the issuance of one or more series of Sales Tax
Anticipation Notes of the County of Cook, Illinois.
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois provides that “a
County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the County ... (is) a Home Rule
Unit” and The County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”), has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the
electors of the County and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the power granted by said
Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Constitution of 1970, as supplemented by the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, as amended, and the other Omnibus Bond Acts, as amended (collectively, the “Act”),
exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs, including, but not
limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the County has the power to incur debt payable from
ad valorem property tax receipts or from any other lawful source and maturing within 40 years from the
time it is incurred without prior referendum approval; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the “Corporate Authorities”) has not adopted
any ordinance, resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code provisions which restrict or limit
the exercise of the home rule powers of the County in the issuance of obligations without referendum for
corporate purposes or which provides any special rules or procedures for the exercise of such power; and

 page 3
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have heretofore and it is hereby expressly determined that it is
desirable and in the public interest of the County to increase the working cash fund of the County, in
order to have in its treasury at all time sufficient money to meet demands thereon for ordinary and
necessary expenditures for the corporate purposes of the County (such increase in the working cash fund
being the “2008 Cash Management Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have heretofore and it is hereby expressly determined that
effective July 1, 2008, the distributions to the County by the State of Illinois (the “State”) of generally
applicable sales taxes imposed by the County pursuant to the Home Rule County Retailers’ Occupation
Tax Act, as amended, the Home Rule County Service Occupation Tax Act, as amended, and the Home
Rule County Use Tax Act, as amended (collectively, the “Home Rule Sales Taxes”), are expected to
increase over the amount of Home Rule Sales Taxes previously distributed to the County; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have heretofore and it is hereby expressly determined that such
increased distributions of Home Rule Sales Taxes will enable the County better to provide for its ongoing
corporate expenditures, including the 2008 Cash Management Project; and
WHEREAS, distributions of Home Rule Sales Taxes are generally made by the State to the County
quarterly in arrears; and
WHEREAS, accordingly the Corporate Authorities have heretofore and it is hereby expressly determined
that it is desirable and necessary and in the best interests of the County that the County borrow from time
to time in anticipation of the distribution by the State to the County of such increased Home Rule Sales
Taxes in order to implement the 2008 Cash Management Project; and
WHEREAS, to that end, on the 29th day of February, 2008, the Corporate Authorities adopted
Resolution Number 08-R-77, stating their intent to issue one or more notes in anticipation of the
distribution by the State to the County of such increased Home Rule Sales Taxes for the purpose of
enabling the County to implement the 2008 Cash Management Project; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have heretofore, and it hereby expressly is, determined that it is
necessary and in the best interests of the County that the County borrow at this time in order to implement
the 2008 Cash Management Project and to pay costs of issuance, and, in evidence of such borrowing, to
issue one or more series of sales tax anticipation notes (collectively, the “Notes”) of the County as
hereinafter authorized, provided that the aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued shall not exceed
the amount of $150,000,000:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of The County of Cook,
Illinois, as follows:
SECTION 1.

DEFINITIONS.

The following words and terms used in this ordinance shall have the following meanings unless
the context or use indicates another or different meaning:
“Accounting” is defined in Section 9 hereof.
“Act” means Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois,
as supplemented and amended by the Local Government Debt Reform Act of the State of Illinois,
as amended, and the other Omnibus Bond Acts, as amended.
“Agency Obligation” means obligations issued or guaranteed by any of the following
agencies, provided that such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United
States of America: Export-Import Bank of the United States direct obligations or fully
guaranteed certificates of beneficial ownership; Federal Financing Bank; Farmers Home
Administration certificates of beneficial ownership; Federal Housing Administration Debentures;
Government National Mortgage Association guaranteed mortgage-backed bonds; General
Services Administration participation certificates; United States Maritime Administration
obligations guaranteed under Title XI; New Communities Debentures; United States Public
Housing Notes and Bonds; and United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Project Notes and Local Authority Bonds.

 page 4
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
“Authorized Denomination” means (i) for Current Interest Notes, $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof, (ii) for Capital Appreciation Notes, Original Principal Amounts of such Capital
Appreciation Notes or any integral multiple thereof, and (iii) for Variable Rate Notes, the
amounts as provided in an Indenture executed by the County in connection therewith.
“Bond Counsel” means Chapman and Cutler LLP, Chicago, Illinois.
“Book Entry Form” means the form of the Notes as fully registered and available in
physical form only to the Depository.
“Capital Appreciation Notes” means Notes payable in one payment on only one fixed
date.
“Chief Financial Officer” means the Chief Financial Officer of the County.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
“Commitment” means (i) a commitment to issue a financial guaranty or municipal bond
insurance policy issued by an Insurer and relating to a Series of Notes and (ii) any separate
insurance agreement between the County and an Insurer executed in connection with the issuance
by such Insurer of its insurance policy with respect to the Notes.
“Compound Accreted Value” means, for any Capital Appreciation Note, on any date of
determination, an amount equal to the Original Principal Amount of such Note (or integral
multiple thereof) plus an investment return accrued to the date of such determination at a
semiannual compounding rate which is necessary to produce the approximate yield to maturity
borne by such Note.
“Convertible CANs” means Notes issued initially as Capital Appreciation Notes
containing provisions for the conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Notes into
Current Interest Notes at such time following the issuance thereof as shall be approved by the
Chief Financial Officer.
“Corporate Authorities” means the Board of Commissioners of the County.
“County” means The County of Cook, Illinois, and its successors and assigns.
“County Clerk” means the County Clerk of the County.
“County Collector” means the County Treasurer, acting ex-officio as the Collector for the
County.
“Credit Facility” means any letter of credit, bank bond purchase agreement, revolving
credit agreement, surety bond, bond insurance policy or other agreement or instrument under
which any person (other than the County) undertakes to make or provide funds to make payment
of the principal or premium, if any (if at the election of the County the Credit Facility secures
premium payable upon an optional redemption of Notes supported by such Credit Facility), and
interest on Notes, delivered to and received by the Trustee.
“Current Debt Service Requirement” means, upon any Accounting, the sum of the
amounts of Principal Requirements and Interest Requirements with respect to Outstanding Notes
for the then current Note Year. For purposes of this definition, any Note Order may provide that
the Current Debt Service Requirement (i) includes Principal Requirements or Interest
Requirements for more than one Note Year or for a fractional amount of any Note Year or
(ii) includes a fractional amount of Principal Requirements or Interest Requirements for the
current Note Year, even if such fractional amount is less than all of the Principal Requirements or
Interest Requirements for any Series of Notes for such Note Year or (iii) is to be calculated by
reference to calendar year rather than Note Year if deemed appropriate by the Trustee or required
by said Note Order.

 page 5
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
“Current Interest Notes” means Notes bearing interest at fixed rates and paying interest
semiannually (which may have a first odd period for interest not greater than one year).
“Defeasance Obligation” means any Federal Obligation or any Agency Obligation, in
each case not subject to redemption at the option of the issuer.
“Depository” means The Depository Trust Company, a New York limited trust company,
its successor or a successor depository qualified to clear securities under applicable state and
federal law.
“Designated Officer” means the President, Chief Financial Officer, Comptroller or any
other officer or employee of the County so designated by a written instrument signed by the
President or the Chief Financial Officer and filed with the Trustee.
“Federal Obligation” means any direct obligation of, or any obligation the timely
payment of principal of and interest on which is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by, the
United States of America.
“Final Maturity” means the last Stated Maturity of interest on or principal of a Note.
“Indenture” means a trust indenture by and between the County and the Trustee as
authorized herein for the issuance of Variable Rate Notes.
“Insurer” means any recognized issuer of a municipal bond insurance policy insuring one
or more Series of Notes as selected by the Chief Financial Officer and so designated in a Note
Order.
“Interest Requirement” means, for any Series of Notes and for any Note Year, the
aggregate amount of interest payable on such Series of Notes during such Note Year, provided,
however, that interest accruing but not payable during such Note Year on any Notes issued as
Capital Appreciation Notes shall not be included in such aggregate amount.
“Note Fund” means the account of that name established and further described in
Section 9 of this Ordinance.
“Note Order” means each written Note Order and Notification of Sale signed by the
Designated Officers and setting forth certain details of the Notes as hereinafter provided.
“Note Register” means the books for the registration and transfer of the Notes to be kept
by the Trustee on behalf of the County.
“Notes” means the sales tax anticipation notes authorized under this Ordinance and to be
issued in one or more Series pursuant to this Ordinance and one or more Note Orders. Any
reference in this Ordinance to “Series 2008A Notes,” “Series 2008B Notes,” and so on shall mean
one of such series of Notes as so designated.
“Maturity Amount” means, for Capital Appreciation Notes, Compound Accreted Value at
maturity.
“Note Moneys” means the Sales Taxes, any accrued interest received upon the sale of the
Notes and deposited into the Note Fund, and investment earnings on deposit in the Note Fund.
“Note Year” means that 12 calendar month period so identified and defined in a Note
Order.
“Ordinance” means this ordinance as originally introduced and adopted and as the same
may from time to time be amended or supplemented in accordance with the terms hereof.

 page 6
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
“Outstanding Notes” means Notes which are outstanding and unpaid; provided, however,
such term shall not include Notes (a) which have matured and for which monies are on deposit
with proper paying agents or are otherwise properly available sufficient to pay all principal
thereof and interest thereon; or (b) the provision for payment of which has been made by the
County pursuant to Section 20 of this Ordinance.
“Principal Requirement” means, for any Series of Notes and for any Note Year, the
principal amount, including Compound Accreted Value, of such Series of Notes having a Stated
Maturity during such Note Year.
“Project Fund” means the Working Cash Fund of the County expressly continued and
further described in Section 12 of this Ordinance.
“Project” means the 2008 Cash Management Project described in the preambles hereto.
“Purchase Price” means the price paid by a Purchaser for the Notes as provided in a Note
Order.
“Purchaser” mean the initial purchasers of a Series of Notes as provided in a relevant
Note Order.
“Qualified Investments” means any lawful investment for County funds, provided,
however, that “Qualified Investments” may be limited as provided in a Note Order.
“Regular Record Date” means, for any Current Interest Notes or Capital Appreciation
Notes, the 1st day of the month in which any regularly scheduled interest payment date occurs on
the 15th day of such month and, in the event of a payment occasioned by a redemption of Notes
on other than a regularly scheduled interest payment date on the 15th day of a month, means the
15th day next preceding such payment date and, for Variable Rate Notes, has the meaning set
forth in a relevant Indenture.
“Representations Letter” means such letter to or agreement, by and among the County,
the Trustee and the Depository as shall be necessary to effectuate a book-entry system for the
Notes, and includes the Blanket Letter of Representations previously executed by the County and
the Depository.
“Sales Taxes” means distributions by the State to the County of generally applicable sales
taxes imposed pursuant to the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, as amended, the Service
Occupation Tax Act, as amended, the Use Tax Act, as amended, the Service Use Tax Act, as
amended, the Home Rule County Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, as amended, the Home Rule
County Service Occupation Tax Act, as amended, and the Home Rule County Use Tax Act, as
amended, or any substitute or successor taxes as may be imposed by the State or the County in
lieu thereof.
“Series” means any series of Notes so designated by a Note Order.
“State” means the State of Illinois.
“Stated Maturity” means with respect to any Note or any interest thereon the date
specified in such Note as the fixed date on which the principal of such Note or such interest is due
and payable, whether by maturity, redemption or otherwise.
“Tax Exempt” means, with respect to the Notes, the status of interest paid and received
thereon as excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof under the Code for federal
income tax purposes, except to the extent that such interest is taken into account in computing an
adjustment used in determining the alternative minimum tax for certain corporations.
“Trustee” means that certain entity so identified in a Note Order as note registrar, paying
agent and trustee, and successors and assigns.

 page 7
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
“Variable Rate Notes” means Notes which are issued at rates subject to change from time
to time, payable from time to time, and subject to various options for payment by the owners
thereof, as more fully provided for herein.
“Yield to Maturity” means, for any Capital Appreciation Note, the approximate yield to
maturity borne by such Note.
SECTION 2.

FINDINGS.

The Corporate Authorities hereby find that it is necessary and in the best interests of the County
that the County provide for the 2008 Cash Management Project and pay all necessary costs thereof, pay
all related costs and expenses incidental thereto, and borrow money and issue the Notes for such
purposes. It is hereby found and determined that such borrowing of money is for a proper public purpose
or purposes and is in the public interest, and is authorized pursuant to the Act; and these findings and
determinations shall be deemed conclusive. The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals
contained in the preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct and do hereby incorporate them into
this Ordinance by this reference.
SECTION 3.

NOTE DETAILS.

There shall be borrowed on the credit of and for and on behalf of the County the sum of not to
exceed $150,000,000 plus an amount equal to the amount of any original issue discount used in the
marketing of the Notes for the purposes aforesaid; one or more Series of Notes shall be issued from time
to time in said aggregate amount, or such lesser amount, in one or more Series, all as may be determined
by the Chief Financial Officer, and shall be designated substantially as “Sales Tax Anticipation [Variable
Rate Demand] Notes, Series 200__,” with such additions or modifications as shall be determined to be
necessary by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale of the Notes to reflect the purpose of the
issue, the order of sale of the Notes, whether the Notes are Current Interest Notes, Variable Rate Notes,
Capital Appreciation Notes or Convertible CANs, and any other authorized features of the Notes
determined by the Chief Financial Officer as desirable to be reflected in the title of the Notes being issued
and sold. Any Notes issued as Current Interest Notes shall be dated as of July 1, 2008, or such later date
at or prior to the date of issuance thereof as may be provided in the relevant Note Order (any such date
being a “Dated Date”). Any Notes issued as Capital Appreciation Notes shall be dated the date of
issuance thereof (and such date being a “Dated Date”). Any Notes issued as Variable Rate Notes shall be
dated such date not earlier than July 1, 2008, and not later than the date of issuance thereof as shall be
provided in the Indenture (any such date being a “Dated Date”). All Notes shall also bear the date of
authentication, shall be in fully registered form, shall be in Authorized Denominations as provided in the
relevant Note Order (but no single Note shall represent installments of principal or Compound Accreted
Value maturing on more than one date), shall be numbered 1 and upward within each Series, shall bear
interest at the rates percent per annum and shall become due and payable (subject as hereinafter provided
with respect to prior redemption) on November 15 (or such other date or dates as may be provided in the
relevant Note Order) of the years as provided in the relevant Note Order, subject to the limitations set
forth below.
All or any portion of the Notes may be issued as Current Interest Notes.
All or any portion of the Notes may be issued as Capital Appreciation Notes. Each Original
Principal Amount of Capital Appreciation Notes shall represent a Maturity Amount of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof.

 page 8
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
All or any portion of the Notes may be initially issued as Convertible CANs. While in the form
of Capital Appreciation Notes, Notes issued as Convertible CANs shall be subject to all of the provisions
and limitations of this Ordinance relating to Capital Appreciation Notes, and while in the form of Current
Interest Notes, Notes issued as Convertible CANs shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations
of this Ordinance relating to Current Interest Notes. In particular, when Convertible CANs are in the
form of Capital Appreciation Notes prior to their conversion to Current Interest Notes, the transfer,
exchange and replacement provisions of this Ordinance with respect to Capital Appreciation Notes shall
apply to such Convertible CANs; provided that the Convertible CANs delivered in the form of Capital
Appreciation Notes in connection with any such transfer, exchange or replacement shall have identical
provisions for conversion to Current Interest Notes as set forth in the Convertible CANs being
transferred, exchange or replaced. In connection with the issuance and sale of any Convertible CANs, the
terms and provisions relating to the conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Convertible
CANs into Current Interest Notes shall be as approved by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale
of such Convertible CANs.
All or any portion of the Notes may be issued as Variable Rate Notes. Any Variable Rate Notes
shall be subject to the provisions of the Indenture for same, to be by and between the County and the
Trustee. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into any Indenture on
behalf of the County. Any Indenture shall be in substantially the form of trust indentures previously
entered into by the County in connection with the sale of variable rate Notes or notes, but with such
revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable,
the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial Officer to evidence the approval by the
Corporate Authorities of all such revisions.
All or any portion of the Notes may be issued as Tax Exempt or not Tax Exempt as the
Designated Officers shall determine upon consultation with counsel and as shall be provided in a relevant
Note Order.
All Notes shall become due and payable as provided in the relevant Note Order, provided,
however, that no Note shall have a Final Maturity which is later than November 30, 2009.
The Current Interest Notes and the Variable Rate Notes shall bear interest at a rate or rates
percent per annum and any Capital Appreciation Notes shall have Yields to Maturity not to exceed five
percent (5.0%) per annum and no Capital Appreciation Note shall have a Yield to Maturity in excess of
five percent (5.0%) per annum. The Current Interest Notes and the Variable Rate Notes shall bear interest
at the rate or rates percent per annum and the Capital Appreciation Notes shall have Yields to Maturity as
provided in the relevant Note Order or Indenture.
Each Current Interest Note shall bear interest from the later of its Dated Date or the most recent
interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, until the principal amount of
such Note is paid, such interest (computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months)
being payable, subject to the provisions of any Note Order, on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing on such May 15 or November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial Officer in the Note
Order therefore.
Each Capital Appreciation Note shall bear interest from its Dated Date at the rate percent per
annum compounded semiannually, subject to the provisions of any Note Order, on each May 15 and
November 15, commencing on such May 15 or November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial
Officer in the Note Order therefore, which will produce the Yield to Maturity until the Stated Maturity
thereof or conversion date to Current Interest Notes. Interest on the Capital Appreciation Notes shall be
payable only at Stated Maturity.

 page 9
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Each Variable Rate Note shall bear interest (computed from time to time on such basis and
payable in such manner as shall be set forth in the Indenture therefore) payable on such dates as shall be
set forth in the Indenture therefore. Any Variable Rate Notes may be made subject to optional or
mandatory tender for purchase by the owners thereof at such times and at such prices (not to exceed 103
percent of the principal amount thereof) as shall be set forth in the Indenture therefore. In connection
with the remarketing of any Variable Rate Notes so tendered for purchase under the terms and conditions
so specified by the Chief Financial Officer, the President and the Chief Financial Officer are each hereby
authorized to execute on behalf of the County a remarketing agreement in customary form at customary
fees used for variable rate financings of the County with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and
provisions of the Notes sold as Variable Rate Notes and such other revisions in text as the Chief Financial
Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Notes as Variable
Rate Notes.
So long as the Notes are held in Book Entry Form, interest on each Note shall be paid to the
Depository by check or draft or electronic funds transfer, in lawful money of the United States of
America, as may be agreed in the Representations Letter; in the event the Notes should ever become
available in physical form to registered owners other than the Depository, interest on each Note shall be
paid by check or draft of the Trustee, payable upon presentation thereof in lawful money of the United
States of America, or by electronic funds transfer of lawful money of the United States of America, as
may be provided, to the person in whose name such Note is registered at the close of business on the
applicable Regular Record Date, and mailed to the address or transferred to such account of such
registered owner as it appears on the Note Register or at such other address or account as may be
furnished in writing to the Trustee.
Principal of and premium (if any) on each Current Interest Note and Variable Rate Note and the
Compound Accreted Value of each Capital Appreciation Note shall be paid upon surrender in lawful
money of the United States of America, at the office maintained for the purpose by the Trustee or its
proper agent.
The Notes shall have impressed or imprinted thereon the corporate seal or facsimile thereof of the
County and shall be signed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile signatures of the President and
County Clerk, as they shall determine, and in case any officer whose signature shall appear on any Note
shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such Note, such signature shall nevertheless be valid
and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until delivery.
All Notes shall have thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form hereinafter set
forth duly executed by the Trustee as authenticating agent of the County and showing the date of
authentication. No Note shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any security or
benefit under this Ordinance unless and until such certificate of authentication shall have been duly
executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate of authentication upon any such Note
shall be conclusive evidence that such Note has been authenticated and delivered under this Ordinance.
The certificate of authentication on any Note shall be deemed to have been executed by the Trustee if
signed by an authorized officer of the Trustee, but it shall not be necessary that the same officer sign the
certificate of authentication on all of the Notes issued hereunder.
SECTION 4.

BOOK-ENTRY PROVISIONS.

The Notes shall be initially issued in the form of a separate single fully registered Note for each
of the maturities of the Notes. Upon initial issuance, the ownership of each such Note shall be registered
in the Note Register in such name as may be provided by the Depository (the “Book Entry Owner”) and,
accordingly, in Book Entry Form as provided and defined herein. Any Designated Officer is authorized
to execute a Representations Letter or to utilize the provisions of an existing Representations Letter.
Without limiting the generality of the authority given with respect to entering into the Representations
Letter for the Notes, it may contain provisions relating to (a) payment procedures, (b) transfers of the
Notes or of beneficial interests therein, (c) redemption notices and procedures unique to the Depository,
(d) additional notices or communications, and (e) amendment from time to time to conform with changing
customs and practices with respect to securities industry transfer and payment practices.

 page 10
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
With respect to Notes registered in the Note Register in the name of the Book Entry Owner,
neither the County nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility or obligation to any broker-dealer, bank,
or other financial institution for which the Depository holds Notes from time to time as securities
depository (each such broker-dealer, bank, or other financial institution being referred to herein as a
“Depository Participant”) or to any person on behalf of whom such a Depository Participant holds an
interest in the Notes. Without limiting the meaning of the immediately preceding sentence, neither the
County nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility or obligation with respect to (a) the accuracy of the
records of the Depository, the Book Entry Owner, or any Depository Participant with respect to any
ownership interest in the Notes; (b) the delivery to any Depository Participant or any other person, other
than a registered owner of a Note as shown in the Note Register or as expressly provided in the
Representations Letter, of any notice with respect to the Notes, including any notice of redemption; or
(c) the payment to any Depository Participant or any other person, other than a registered owner of a Note
as shown in the Note Register, of any amount with respect to principal of or interest on the Notes. No
person other than a registered owner of a Note as shown in the Note Register shall receive a Note
certificate with respect to any Note. In the event that (a) the County determines that the Depository is
incapable of discharging its responsibilities described herein or in the Representations Letter, (b) the
agreement among the County and the Depository evidenced by the Representations Letter shall be
terminated for any reason, or (c) the County determines that it is in the best interests of the County or of
the beneficial owners of the Notes that they be able to obtain certificated Notes; the County shall notify
the Depository of the availability of Note certificates, and the Notes shall no longer be restricted to being
registered in the Note Register to the Book Entry Owner. The County may determine at such time that
the Notes shall be registered in the name of and deposited with a successor depository operating a book
entry only system, as may be acceptable to the County, or such depository’s agent or designee, but if the
County does not select such successor depository, then the Notes shall be registered in whatever name or
names registered owners of Notes transferring or exchanging Notes shall designate, in accordance with
the provisions hereof.
SECTION 5.

REDEMPTION.

If so provided in the relevant Note Order or Indenture, any Notes may be redeemable prior to
maturity at the option of the County, in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption
prices (to be expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of Current Interest Notes or Variable Rate
Notes to be redeemed and as a percentage of the Compound Accreted Value of Capital Appreciation
Notes to be redeemed) not to exceed one hundred three percent (103.00%), plus, in the case of Current
Interest Notes or Variable Rate Notes, accrued interest to the date of redemption, as determined by the
Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof. If less than all of the outstanding Notes of a Series
are to be optionally redeemed, the Notes to be called shall be called from such Series, in such principal
amounts and from such maturities as may be determined by the County and within any maturity by lot
within a maturity in the manner hereinafter provided. Any Current Interest Notes or Variable Rate Notes
may be made subject to mandatory redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date fixed for
redemption, as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof and as set forth in
the relevant Note Order or Indenture. The terms and provisions for any redemption of Variable Rate
Notes shall be as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale of the Notes and as set
forth in a relevant Indenture, provided that such terms shall be within the limitations set forth in this
Section.
In connection with any mandatory redemption of Notes as authorized above, the principal
amounts of such Notes to be mandatorily redeemed in each year may be reduced through the earlier
optional redemption thereof, with any partial optional redemptions of such Notes credited against future
mandatory redemption requirements in such order of the mandatory redemption dates as the Chief
Financial Officer may determine. In the absence of such determination, partial optional redemptions of
such Notes shall be credited against future mandatory redemption requirements in inverse chronological
order of such payments beginning with the amount scheduled to become due at Stated Maturity, then the
amount subject to mandatory redemption in the year preceding Stated Maturity, and so on. In addition, on
or prior to the 60th day preceding any mandatory redemption date, the Trustee may, and if directed by the
Chief Financial Officer shall, purchase Notes of such maturities in an amount not exceeding the amount
of such Notes required to be retired on such mandatory redemption date and at a price not exceeding par
plus accrued interest. Any such Notes so purchased shall be cancelled and the principal amount thereof
shall be credited against the payment required on such next mandatory redemption date.

 page 11
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
The County shall, at least 45 days prior to the redemption date (unless a shorter time shall be
satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such redemption date, the years of maturity and principal
amounts of Notes to be redeemed and, if applicable, the mandatory redemption payment so affected.
Current Interest Notes shall be redeemed only in the principal amount of $5,000 each and integral
multiples thereof, and Capital Appreciation Notes shall be redeemed only in amounts representing $5,000
Maturity Amount and integral multiples thereof. In the event of the redemption of less than all the Notes
of a Series of like maturity, the aggregate principal amount or Maturity Amount (as appropriate) thereof
to be redeemed shall be $5,000 or an integral multiple thereof, and the Trustee shall assign to each such
Note of such maturity a distinctive number for each $5,000 principal amount or Maturity Amount (as
appropriate) of such Note and shall select by lot from the numbers so assigned as many numbers as, at
$5,000 for each number, shall equal the principal amount or Maturity Amount (as appropriate) of such
Notes to be redeemed. The Notes to be redeemed shall be those to which were assigned numbers so
selected; provided that only so much of the principal amount or Maturity Amount (as appropriate) of each
Note shall be redeemed as shall equal $5,000 for each number assigned to it and so selected.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the County in writing of the Notes or portions of Notes selected
for redemption and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof
to be redeemed.
Unless waived by the owner of Notes to be redeemed or as otherwise provided in an Indenture for
Variable Rate Notes, notice of any such redemption shall be given by the Trustee on behalf of the County
by mailing the redemption notice by first class mail not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior
to the date fixed for redemption to each registered owner of the Note or Notes to be redeemed at the
address shown on the Note Register or at such other address as is furnished in writing by such registered
owners to the Trustee.
All notices of redemption shall include at least the information as follows:
(1)

the redemption date;

(2)

the redemption price;

(3) if less than all of the Notes of a particular Series are to be redeemed, the
identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the
Notes to be redeemed;
(4) a statement that on the redemption date the redemption price will become due and
payable upon each such Note or portion thereof called for redemption and that interest thereon
shall cease to accrue from and after said date; and
(5) the place where such Notes are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption
price, which place of payment shall be the office maintained for the purpose by the Trustee.
Such additional notice as may be agreed upon with the Depository shall also be given so long as
the Notes are held by the Depository.
On or prior to any redemption date, the County shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of
money sufficient to pay the redemption price of all the Notes or portions of Notes which are to be
redeemed on that date.
Notice of redemption having been given as provided therefore, the Notes or portions of Notes so
to be redeemed shall, on the redemption date, become due and payable at the redemption price therein
specified, and from and after such date (unless the County shall default in the payment of the redemption
price) such Notes or portions of Notes shall cease to bear interest. Neither the failure to mail such
redemption notice nor any defect in any notice so mailed to any particular registered owner of a Note
shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other registered owners. Notice having been
properly given, failure of a registered owner of a Note to receive such notice shall not be deemed to
invalidate, limit or delay the effect of the notice or the redemption action described in the notice.

 page 12
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Such notice may be waived in writing by a registered owner of a Note, either before or after the
event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice shall be filed with the
Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance
upon such waiver. Upon surrender of such Notes for redemption in accordance with said notice, such
Notes shall be paid by the Trustee at the redemption price. Interest due on or prior to the redemption date
shall be payable as herein provided for payment of interest. Upon surrender for any partial redemption of
any Note, there shall be prepared for the registered owner a new Note or Notes of the same Stated
Maturity in the amount of the unpaid principal or Maturity Amount.
With respect to any redemption of Notes, unless moneys sufficient to pay the redemption price of
the Notes to be redeemed shall have been received by the Trustee prior to the giving of the notice of
redemption, such notice may, at the option of the County, state that such redemption shall be conditional
upon the receipt of such moneys by the Trustee on or prior to the date fixed for redemption. If such
moneys are not received, such notice shall be of no force and effect, the Trustee shall not redeem such
Notes, and the Trustee shall give notice, in the same manner in which the notice of redemption shall have
been given, that such moneys were not so received and that such Notes will not be redeemed.
If any Note or portion of Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof
for redemption, in the case of Current Interest Notes, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest from the
redemption date at the rate borne by the Note or portion of Note so called for redemption; in the case of
Variable Rate Notes, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest as provided in a relevant Indenture; and,
in the case of Capital Appreciation Notes, the Compound Accreted Value at such redemption date shall
continue to accrue interest from such redemption date at the Yield to Maturity borne by such Capital
Appreciation Note, or portion thereof, so called for redemption. All Notes which have been redeemed
shall be cancelled and destroyed by the Trustee and shall not be reissued.
Upon the payment of the redemption price of Notes being redeemed, each check or other transfer
of funds issued for such purpose shall bear the CUSIP number identifying, by issue and maturity, the
Notes being redeemed with the proceeds of such check or other transfer.
SECTION 6.

REGISTRATION OF NOTES; PERSONS TREATED AS OWNERS; NOTES
LOST, DESTROYED, ETC.

The County shall cause the Note Register to be kept at the office maintained for the purpose by
the Trustee, which is hereby constituted and appointed the Registrar of the County. The County is
authorized to prepare, and the Trustee shall keep custody of, multiple Note blanks executed by the County
for use in the transfer and exchange of Notes.
Subject to the provisions hereof relating to the Notes in Book Entry Form, upon surrender for
transfer of any Note at the office maintained for the purpose by the Trustee, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and
duly executed by, the registered owner or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, the County shall
execute and the Trustee shall authenticate, date and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees (a)
in the case of any Capital Appreciation Note, a new fully registered Capital Appreciation Note or Notes of
the same Series and of the same Stated Maturity of Authorized Denominations, for a like aggregate
Original Principal Amount or (b) in the case of any Current Interest Note or Variable Rate Note, a new
fully registered Note or Notes of the same tenor, of the same interest rate and Stated Maturity, of
Authorized Denominations, for a like aggregate principal amount. Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance relating to Book Entry Form any Capital Appreciation Note or Notes may be exchanged at said
office of the Trustee or its proper agent for a like aggregate Original Principal Amount of Capital
Appreciation Note or Notes of the same maturity of other Authorized Denominations; and any fully
registered Current Interest Note or Notes or Variable Rate Note or Notes may be exchanged at said office
of the Trustee or its proper agent for a like aggregate principal amount of such Notes of the same tenor, of
the same interest rate and Stated Maturity, of other Authorized Denominations.
The execution by the County of any fully registered Note shall constitute full and due
authorization of such Note, and the Trustee or its proper agent shall thereby be authorized to authenticate,
date and deliver such Note in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance and of any Indenture.

 page 13
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
The person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed and regarded as the
absolute owner thereof for all purposes, and payment of the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on
or any Maturity Amount of any Note shall be made only to or upon the order of the registered owner
thereof or his or her legal representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the liability upon such Note to the extent of the sum or sums so paid.
No service charge shall be made for any transfer or exchange of Notes, but the County or the
Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may
be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Notes exchanged in the case of the issuance of
a Note or Notes for the outstanding portion of a Note surrendered for redemption.
If any Note, whether in temporary or definitive form, is lost (whether by reason of theft or
otherwise), destroyed (whether by mutilation, damage, in whole or in part, or otherwise) or improperly
cancelled, the Trustee or its proper agent may authenticate a new Note of like date, maturity date, interest
rate (or, in the case of Capital Appreciation Notes, Yield to Maturity), denomination and Original
Principal Amount (in the case of Capital Appreciation Notes) or principal amount (in the case of other
Notes) and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding; provided that (a) in the case of any
mutilated Note, such mutilated Note shall first be surrendered to the Trustee, and (b) in the case of any
lost Note or Note destroyed in whole, there shall be first furnished to the Trustee evidence of such loss or
destruction, together with indemnification of the County and the Trustee, satisfactory to the Trustee. In
the event any lost, destroyed or improperly cancelled Note shall have matured or is about to mature, or
has been called for redemption, instead of issuing a duplicate Note, the Trustee shall pay the same without
surrender thereof if there shall be first furnished to the Trustee evidence of such loss, destruction or
cancellation, together with indemnity, satisfactory to it. Upon the issuance of any substitute Note, the
Trustee may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that
may be imposed in relation thereto.
SECTION 7.

SECURITY.

The Sales Taxes are hereby irrevocably pledged to the punctual payment of the principal of,
interest on and Maturity Amount of the Notes. The County hereby pledges, as equal and ratable security
for the Notes, all present and future proceeds of the Sales Taxes on deposit in the Note Fund for the sole
benefit of the registered owners of the Notes, subject to the reserved right of the Corporate Authorities to
transfer certain interest income or investment profit earned in the Note Fund to other funds of the County.
SECTION 8.

FORMS OF NOTES.

The Current Interest Notes and the Capital Appreciation Notes shall be in substantially the forms
hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that if the text of the Notes is to be printed in its entirety on the
front side of the Notes, then the second paragraph on the front side and the legend “See Reverse Side for
Additional Provisions” shall be omitted and the text of paragraphs set forth for the reverse side shall be
inserted immediately after the first paragraph. The Convertible CANs shall be prepared incorporating the
provisions of the forms of Current Interest Notes and Capital Appreciation Notes set forth below as
necessary to reflect the terms and provisions of the sale of the Convertible CANs pursuant to Section 11
hereof. Variable Rate Notes shall be prepared in substantially the form provided in the relevant
Indenture.
SECTION 9.

NOTE FUND CREATED; PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL, PREMIUM AND
INTEREST.

There is hereby created the “2008 Sales Tax Anticipation Note Fund” (the “Note Fund”), which
shall be the fund for the payment of principal of and interest on and Maturity Amount of the Notes. The
Note Fund shall be held and maintained as a separate and segregated account by the Trustee. Accounts
within the Note Fund may be created by the Trustee as necessary for any series of Notes as specified in a
relevant Note Order or, for Variable Rate Notes, as provided in a relevant Indenture.

 page 14
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Incidental to each distribution by the State to the County of Sales Taxes, the Comptroller of the
County shall conduct an accounting (each, an “Accounting”) to determine the amount of Sales Taxes
necessary to pay the Current Debt Service Requirement and shall immediately transfer a fractional
amount of the interest becoming due on the next succeeding interest payment date on all of the Notes and
also a fractional amount of the principal becoming due or subject to mandatory redemption on the next
succeeding principal maturity or mandatory redemption date of all of the Notes until there shall have been
accumulated and held, in cash and investments, in the Note Fund in or before the month preceding such
maturity date of interest or maturity or mandatory redemption date of principal, an amount sufficient to
pay the Current Debt Service Requirement. It is hereby expressly provided that Sales Taxes not so
transferred to the Trustee for deposit into the Note Fund shall be available to the County for any lawful
corporate purpose and shall not be deemed to have been pledged hereunder to the payment of the Notes.
Interest or principal coming due at any time when there are insufficient funds on hand from the
Note Moneys to pay the same shall be paid promptly when due from current funds on hand in advance of
the collection of the Sales Taxes which funds are hereby appropriated for such purpose as necessary; and
when the Sales Taxes shall have been collected, reimbursement shall be made to said funds in the amount
so advanced.
All moneys appropriated or used by the County for the payment of the principal or redemption
price of, and interest on, or Maturity Amount of, the Notes shall be paid to the Trustee. The Trustee shall
be accountable only for moneys actually so deposited with the Trustee.
The County Treasurer is hereby expressly authorized and directed to do, or cause to be done, all
things necessary to provide for the prompt deposit with the Trustee of the Sales Taxes in the amounts and
at the times as hereinabove provided, in accordance with this Ordinance.
SECTION 10. GENERAL COVENANTS.
The County covenants and agrees with the registered owners of the Notes, so long as any Notes remain
Outstanding, as follows:
A. The Corporate Authorities covenant and agree to provide for, collect and apply
Sales Taxes to the payment of the Notes, and the County pledges the Sales Taxes to the payment
of the Notes, in the amounts and at the times, all as hereinabove provided.
B. The County will punctually pay or cause to be paid from the Note Fund the
principal of and interest on the Notes in strict conformity with the terms of the Notes and this
Ordinance, and it will faithfully observe and perform all of the conditions, covenants and
requirements thereof and hereof.
C. The County will pay and discharge, or cause to be paid and discharged, from the
Note Fund any and all lawful claims which, if unpaid, might become a lien or charge upon the
Note Moneys, or any part thereof, or upon any funds in the hands of the Trustee, or which might
impair the security of the Notes. Nothing herein contained shall require the County to make any
such payment so long as the County in good faith shall contest the validity of said claims.
D. The County will keep, or cause to be kept, proper books of record and accounts,
separate from all other records and accounts of the County, in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relating to the Note Moneys and the Note Fund.
E. The County will preserve and protect the security of the Notes and the rights of the
registered owners of the Notes, and will warrant and defend their rights against all claims and
demands of all persons. From and after the sale and delivery of any of the Notes by the County,
the Notes shall be incontestable by the County.

 page 15
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
F. The County will adopt, make, execute and deliver any and all such further
ordinances, resolutions, instruments and assurances as may be reasonably necessary or proper to
carry out the intention of, or to facilitate the performance of, this Ordinance, and for the better
assuring and confirming unto the registered owners of the Notes of the rights and benefits
provided in this Ordinance.
G. As long as any Notes are Outstanding, the County will continue to deposit and
apply the Sales Taxes as provided herein to the Note Fund. The County covenants and agrees
with the purchasers of the Notes and with the registered owners thereof that so long as any Notes
remain Outstanding, the County will take no action or fail to take any action which in any way
would adversely affect the ability of the County to collect and to segregate the Note Moneys. The
County and its officers will comply with all present and future applicable laws in order to assure
that the Sales Taxes may be collected and deposited into the Note Fund as provided herein.
H. The Outstanding Notes shall be and forever remain until paid or defeased the
general obligation of the County and shall be payable from the Sales Taxes, as herein provided.
SECTION 11.

SALE OF THE NOTES; FORMS OF DOCUMENTS APPROVED.

The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell all or any portion of the several Series of
the Notes to such respective Purchasers from time to time and on such terms as she may deem to be in the
best interests of the County; provided that the Purchase Price shall be at least ninety-eight percent (98%)
of the proceeds of the Notes (exclusive of any net original issue discount used in the marketing of the
Notes, not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof), plus accrued interest on the Notes from their
Dated Date to the date of their issuance. The Notes may be sold from time to time as the Chief Financial
Officer shall determine that the proceeds of such sales are needed. Nothing contained in this Ordinance
shall limit the sale of the Notes or any maturity or maturities thereof at a price or prices in excess of the
principal amount thereof. Nothing in this Section shall require the Chief Financial Officer to sell any of
the Notes if in her judgment, aided by the County’s financial advisors, the conditions in the Note markets
shall have deteriorated from the time of adoption hereof or the sale of all or any portion of the Notes shall
for some other reason not be deemed advisable, but the Chief Financial Officer shall have the authority to
sell the Notes in any event so long as the limitations set forth in this Ordinance and the conditions of this
Section shall have been met.
Subsequent to each such sale of the Notes, the Chief Financial Officer shall file in the office of
the County Clerk a Note Order directed to the Corporate Authorities identifying (i) the terms of the sale,
(ii) the amount of the Notes, if any, being sold as Capital Appreciation Notes, Convertible CANs or
Current Interest Notes, (iii) the amount of Notes, if any, being sold as Variable Rate Notes and attaching
the related Indenture or Indentures, (iv) the Dated Date of the Notes sold, (v) the aggregate principal
amount of Notes sold, (vi) the principal amount of Notes maturing and mandatorily redeemable in each
year, if any, (vii) the optional redemption provisions, if any, applicable to the Notes sold, (viii) with
respect to any Capital Appreciation Notes being sold, the Original Principal Amounts of and Yields to
Maturity on such Capital Appreciation Notes and a table of Compound Accreted Values per $5,000
Compound Accreted Value at Maturity for such Capital Appreciation Notes, setting forth the Compound
Accreted Value of each such Capital Appreciation Note on each compounding date, (ix) the interest rate
or rates on any Current Interest Notes sold, or, in the case of any Series of Variable Rate Notes the
estimated interest rate for such Variable Rate Notes and a description (which shall be in the relevant
Indenture therefore) of the methods of determining the interest rate applicable to such Variable Rate
Notes from time to time and the identity of any remarketing agent retained in connection with the
issuance of Variable Rate Notes, (x) the identity of the Purchasers, (xi) the identify of any Insurer,
(xii) the portion, if any, of the Notes which are not Tax Exempt, (xiii) the identity of any provider of a
Credit Facility, and (xiv) the information regarding the title and Series designation of the Notes, together
with any other matter authorized by this Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the
time of sale of the Notes, and thereafter the Notes so sold shall be duly prepared and executed in the form
and manner provided herein and delivered to the respective Purchasers in accordance with the terms of
sale.

 page 16
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Upon the sale of the Notes or any Series of the Notes, the Designated Officers and any other
officers of the County as shall be appropriate, shall be and are hereby authorized and directed to approve
or execute, or both, such documents of sale of the Note as may be necessary, including, without
limitation, the Note Order, such offering documents (in the forms of Preliminary Official Statement,
Official Statement, preliminary Limited Offering Memorandum or Limited Offering Memorandum, as
may be appropriate, abd being, collectively, the “OS”), Note Purchase Contract (as hereinafter defined), a
tax agreement and certificate as prepared by Note Counsel (a “Tax Certificate”), and closing documents.
The Chief Financial Officer must find and determine in the Note Order that no person holding any office
of the County either by election or appointment, is in any manner financially interested either directly, in
his or her own name, or indirectly in the name of any other person, association, trust or corporation in said
Note Purchase Contract with the Purchasers for the purchase of the Notes. The distribution of the
Preliminary OS relating to the Notes is hereby in all respects authorized and approved, and the proposed
use by the Purchasers of an OS (in substantially the form of the Preliminary OS but with appropriate
variations to reflect the final terms of the Notes) is hereby approved. The Chief Financial Officer shall
execute a note purchase contract for the sale of the Notes to the Purchasers (the “Note Purchase
Contract”) in the form approved by the attorney for the County. The authority granted in this Ordinance
to the Designated Officers to sell Notes as provided herein shall expire on November 1, 2009.
The Designated Officers are hereby authorized to take any action as may be required on the part
of the County to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Note Purchase Contract, this
Ordinance, said Preliminary OS, said final OS the Tax Certificate and the Notes.
In connection with any sale of the Notes, the President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to obtain a Credit Facility with one or more financial institutions. The President or the Chief
Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement agreement and to execute and issue a
promissory note in connection with the provisions of each Credit Facility. Any Credit Facility and any
reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities and reimbursement
agreements previously entered into by the County in connection with the sale of general obligation Notes
or notes, but with such revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are
necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial Officer to evidence
the approval by the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions.
The annual fee paid to any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility shall not exceed
three-quarters of one percent of the average principal amount of such Notes outstanding during such
annual period. The final form of reimbursement agreement entered into by the County with respect to the
Notes shall be attached to the notification of sale filed with the County Clerk pursuant to this section.
Each such promissory note shall mature not later than the final maturity date of the Notes and shall be a
special, limited obligation of the County payable solely and only from the Sales Taxes. Such amounts
shall not constitute an indebtedness of the County for which its full faith and credit is pledged. Each such
promissory note shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding 18 percent per annum. The President or the
Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement,
under the seal of the County affixed and attached by the County Clerk.
In connection with any sale of the Notes, the President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to obtain a financial guaranty or municipal Note insurance policy from an Insurer if the Chief
Financial Officer determines such Note insurance to be desirable in connection with such sale of the
Notes or any portion thereof. The President or Chief Financial Officer is hereby expressly authorized, on
behalf of the County, to make such customary covenants and agreements with such Insurer as are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance.
The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver from
time to time one or more agreements with counterparties selected by the Chief Financial Officer, the
purpose of which is to hedge or manage the County’s interest cost with respect to the Notes (or any
portion thereof), or to reduce the County’s exposure to fluctuations in the interest rate or rates payable on
the Notes or to insure, protect or preserve its investments from any loss (including, without limitation,
loss caused by fluctuations in interest rates, markets or in securities). The stated aggregate notional
amount under all such agreements authorized hereunder shall not exceed the principal amount of the
Notes issued hereunder (net of offsetting transactions entered into by the County).

 page 17
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Any such agreement to the extent practicable shall be in substantially the form of either the Local
Currency - Single Jurisdiction version or the Multicurrency-Cross Border version of the 1992 ISDA
Master Agreement accompanied by the U.S. Municipal Counterparty Schedule published by the
International Swap Dealers Association (the “ISDA”) or any successor form to be published by the ISDA,
and in the appropriate confirmations of transactions governed by that agreement, with such insertions,
completions and modifications thereof as shall be approved by the officer of the County executing the
same, his or her execution to constitute conclusive evidence of the Corporate Authorities’ approval of
such insertions, completions and modifications thereof. Amounts payable by the County under any such
agreement (being “Swap Payments”) shall constitute operating expenses of the County payable from any
moneys, receipts, income, assets or funds of the County available for such purpose or be payable from the
sources pledged to the payment of the Notes, as the Chief Financial Officer may from time to time
determine. Such amounts shall not constitute an indebtedness of the County for which its full faith and
credit is pledged. Nothing contained in this Section shall limit or restrict the authority of the President or
the Chief Financial Officer to enter into similar agreements pursuant to prior or subsequent authorization
of the Corporate Authorities.
SECTION 12.

CREATION OF FUNDS AND APPROPRIATIONS.

A.
Accrued interest, capitalized interest and premium, if any, received upon delivery of the
Notes shall be deposited into the Note Fund and be applied to pay first interest coming due on the Notes.
The Sales Taxes shall either be deposited into the Note Fund as hereinabove provided and be used
solely and only for paying the principal of and interest on or Maturity Amount of the Notes or be used to
reimburse a fund or account from which advances to the Note Fund may have been made to pay principal
of or interest on or Maturity Amount of the Notes prior to receipt of Sales Taxes. Interest income or
investment profit earned in the Note Fund shall be retained in the Note Fund for payment of the principal
of and interest on Current Interest Notes and Variable Rate Notes and Maturity Amount of Capital
Appreciation Notes on the interest payment date next after such interest or profit is received or, to the
extent lawful and as determined by the Chief Financial Officer, transferred to such other funds as may be
determined. Capitalized interest, if any, deposited to and remaining in the Note Fund for any Variable
Rate Notes shall be transferred to such other funds or accounts as the Chief Financial Officer shall
determine.
B.
The remaining proceeds of the Notes shall be set aside in a separate fund of the County,
hereby expressly continued, and designated as the “Working Cash Fund” (the “Project Fund”). The
Project Fund may further be divided into accounts and designated the “Series ______ Notes Project
Account”(an “Account”). The Project Fund shall be held and maintained as a separate and segregated
account by the Trustee. Moneys in the Project Fund may be withdrawn or may be transferred to the
Project Fund by the County to pay the costs of the Project upon requisition by the Chief Financial Officer
or any other employee of the County designated by the Chief Financial Officer.
Alternatively, the Chief Financial Officer may allocate the proceeds of the Notes to one or more
related Project funds or accounts of the County already in existence; provided, however, that this shall not
relieve the County and such officer of the duty to account for the proceeds as if such Project Fund or
Account were created as herein provided. The County by its Corporate Authorities reserves the right, as it
becomes necessary from time to time, to change the purposes of expenditure of such Project Fund or its
accounts, to change priorities, to revise cost allocations between expenditures and to substitute other
lawful corporate purpose projects, in order to meet current needs of the County; subject, however, to the
provisions of the Act and to the tax covenants of the County relating to the Tax Exempt status of interest
on Tax Exempt Notes.
C.
The sum necessary, as determined by the Chief Financial Officer, of the principal
proceeds of the Notes shall be deposited into a separate and segregated fund, hereby created, to be known
as the “Expense Fund” (the “Expense Fund”) and shall be disbursed by the Trustee upon the delivery of
the Notes or be used by the County to pay costs of issuance of the Notes in accordance with normal
County disbursement procedures. Any funds remaining to the credit of the Expense Fund on the date
which is three months following the date of delivery of the Notes shall be transferred to the County
Treasurer for deposit into such fund or account of the County as the Chief Financial Officer may direct.

 page 18
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
D.
The moneys on deposit in the Note Fund may be invested from time to time in Qualified
Investments. Any such investments may be sold from time to time by the Trustee without further
direction from the County as moneys may be needed for the purposes for which the Note Fund has been
created. The moneys on deposit in the Project Fund shall be invested in any lawful investment for County
funds. In addition, the Chief Financial Officer shall direct the Trustee (which direction may be by
facsimile transmission by the County to the Trustee and confirmed by facsimile transmission by the
Trustee to the County) to sell such investments when necessary to remedy any deficiency in the Note
Fund, the Project Fund or any accounts created therein. All other investment earnings shall be attributed
to the account for which the investment was made.
E. All moneys (not including securities) held by the Trustee subject to the provisions of this
Section may be deposited by it, on demand or time deposit, in its banking department or with such banks,
national banking associations, trust companies, savings banks or savings and loan associations, that are
members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as may be designated by the President or the Chief
Financial Officer. No such moneys shall be deposited with any such financial institution in an amount
exceeding 50 percent of the amount that an officer of such financial institution shall certify to the Trustee
and the Chief Financial Officer as the combined capital and surplus of such financial institution. No such
moneys shall be deposited or remain on deposit with any such financial institution in excess of the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, unless (a) such financial
institution shall have lodged with the trust department of the Trustee or with a Federal Reserve Bank or
branch or, with the written approval of the Trustee and the Chief Financial Officer, pledged to some other
financial institution for the benefit of the County and the holders of Notes, as collateral security for the
moneys deposited, Federal Obligations or Agency Obligations having a market value (exclusive of
accrued interest) at least equal to 100 percent of the amount of such moneys, and (b) the Trustee shall
have a perfected first lien in the Federal Obligations or Agency Obligations serving as collateral, and such
Federal Obligations or Agency Obligations shall be free from all third party liens. The Trustee shall
allow and credit interest on any such moneys held by it at such rate as it customarily allows upon similar
funds of similar size and under similar conditions or as required by law. Interest in respect of moneys or
on securities in any fund shall be credited in each case to the fund in which such moneys or securities are
held.
F. The County may invest any moneys in a repurchase agreement. Each repurchase agreement
shall meet the requirements of the Public Funds Investment Act of the State of Illinois, as amended, or be
secured by Federal Obligations or Agency Obligations or obligations described in clause (d) of the
definition of Qualified Investments having a market value, marked to market weekly, at least equal to 102
percent of the amount invested in the repurchase agreement plus accrued interest. The Trustee shall at all
times have a first lien in such Federal Obligations or Agency Obligations perfected (i) by possession of
certificated securities held by the Trustee or held by a third party acting on behalf of the Trustee if the
Trustee is providing the collateral securities, or (ii) under the book-entry procedures specified in 31 Code
of Federal Regulations 306.1 et seq. or 31 Code of Federal Regulations 350.0 et seq. The President or the
Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into, execute and deliver any investment or
repurchase agreement authorized by this Ordinance, and any additional documents as shall be necessary
to accomplish the purposes of any such agreement.
G.
Other funds or accounts appropriate for Variable Rate Notes, such as a purchase fund to
accommodate demands for purchase of such Notes and the remarketing of same to other Note owners,
may be created in the Indenture.
SECTION 13.

GENERAL TAX COVENANTS.

A.
Not Private Activity Bonds. None of the Tax Exempt Notes is a “private activity bond” as
defined in Section 141(a) of the Code. In support of such conclusion, the County certifies, represents and
covenants as follows:
1. No more than five percent of the sale proceeds of each Series of Tax Exempt Notes, each
considered separately, plus investment earnings thereon, will be used, directly or indirectly, in whole or in
part, in any activity carried on by any person other than a state or local governmental unit.

 page 19
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
2. The payment of more than five percent of the principal of or the interest on each Series of
the Tax Exempt Notes, each considered separately, will not be, used, directly or indirectly (i) secured by
any interest in (A) property used or to be used in any activity carried on by any person other than a state
or local governmental unit or (B) payments in respect of such property or (ii) on a present value basis,
derived from payments in respect of property, or borrowed money, used or to be used in any activity
carried on by any person other than a state or local governmental unit.
3. No more than the lesser of five percent of the sale proceeds of each Series of the Tax
Exempt Notes and investment earnings thereon or $5,000,000 will be or was used, directly or indirectly,
to make or finance loans to any persons.
4. No user of any project financed by Tax Exempt Notes (collectively, the “Infrastructure”)
other than a state or local governmental unit will use more than five percent of the Infrastructure, in the
aggregate, on any basis other than the same basis as the general public; and no person other than a state or
local governmental unit will be a user of more than five percent of the Infrastructure, in the aggregate, as
a result of (i) ownership, (ii) actual or beneficial use pursuant to a lease or a management, service,
incentive payment, research or output contract, or (iii) any other similar arrangement, agreement or
understanding, whether written or oral.
5. The County has not and will not enter into any arrangement that conveys to any person,
other than a state or local government unit, special legal entitlements to any portion of the Infrastructure
that is available for use by the general public. No person, other than a state or local governmental unit, is
receiving or will receive any special economic benefit from use of any portion of the Infrastructure that is
not available for use by the general public.
B.

Pertaining to Rebate.

The County further certifies and covenants as follows with respect to the requirements of
Section 148(f) of the Code, relating to the rebate of “excess arbitrage profits” (the “Rebate Requirement”)
to the United States:
1. Unless an applicable exception to the Rebate Requirement is available to the County will
meet the Rebate Requirement.
2. Relating to applicable exceptions, any Designated Officer is hereby authorized to make
such elections under the Code as either such officer shall deem reasonable and in the best interests of the
County. If such election may result in a “penalty in lieu of rebate” as provided in the Code, and such
penalty is incurred (the “Penalty”), then the County shall pay such Penalty.
3. The Designated Officers may cause to be established, at such time and in such manner as
they may deem necessary or appropriate hereunder, a “2002 General Obligation Notes Rebate [or Penalty,
if applicable] Fund” (the “148 Compliance Fund”) for the Tax Exempt Notes, and such officers shall
further, not less frequently than annually, cause to be transferred to the 148 Compliance Fund the amount
determined to be the accrued liability under the Rebate Requirement or Penalty. Said Designated Officers
shall cause to be paid to the U.S., without further order or direction from the Corporate Authorities, from
time to time as required, amounts sufficient to meet the Rebate Requirement or to pay the Penalty.
4. Interest earnings in the Note Fund and the Project Fund are hereby authorized to be
transferred, without further order or direction from the Corporate Authorities, from time to time as
required, to the 148 Compliance Fund for the purposes herein provided; and proceeds of the Tax Exempt
Notes and other funds of the County are also hereby authorized to be used to meet the Rebate
Requirement or to pay the Penalty, but only if necessary after application of investment earnings as
aforesaid and only as appropriated by the Corporate Authorities.

 page 20
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 14.

REGISTERED FORM.

The County recognizes that Section 149 of the Code requires Tax Exempt obligations to be issued
and to remain in fully registered form in order to be and remain Tax Exempt. In this connection, the
County agrees that it will not take any action to permit Tax Exempt Notes to be issued in, or converted
into, bearer or coupon form.
SECTION 15.

FURTHER TAX-EXEMPTION COVENANTS.

The County agrees to comply with all provisions of the Code which, if not complied with by the
County, would cause Tax Exempt Notes not to be Tax Exempt. In furtherance of the foregoing
provisions, but without limiting their generality, the County agrees: (a) through its officers, to make such
further specific covenants, representations as shall be truthful, and assurances as may be necessary or
advisable; (b) to comply with all representations, covenants and assurances contained in certificates or
agreements as may be prepared by Bond Counsel; (c) to consult with Bond Counsel and to comply with
such advice as may be given; (d) to file such forms, statements and supporting documents as may be
required and in a timely manner; and (e) if deemed necessary or advisable by its officers, to employ and
pay fiscal agents, financial advisors, attorneys and other persons to assist the County in such compliance.
The County also certifies and further covenants with the Purchasers and registered owners of the
Tax Exempt Notes from time to time outstanding that moneys on deposit in any fund or account in
connection with the Tax Exempt Notes, whether or not such moneys were derived from the proceeds of
the sale of the Tax Exempt Notes or from any other source, will not be used in a manner which will cause
the Tax Exempt Notes to be “arbitrage bonds” within the meaning of Code Section 148 and any lawful
regulations promulgated thereunder, as the same presently exist or may from time to time hereafter be
amended, supplemented or revised.
The County further covenants that it will not take any action, or omit to take any action or permit
the taking or omission of any action within its control (including, without limitation, making or permitting
any use of the proceeds of the Tax Exempt Notes) if taking, permitting or omitting to take such action
would cause any Tax Exempt Note to be a private activity bond within the meaning of the Code or would
otherwise cause interest on the Tax Exempt Notes to be included in the gross income of the recipients
thereof for federal income tax purposes.
SECTION 16.

REIMBURSEMENT.

None of the proceeds of the Tax Exempt Notes will be used to pay, directly or indirectly, in
whole or in part, for an expenditure that has been paid by the County prior to the date hereof except
architectural, engineering costs or construction costs incurred prior to commencement of any of the
Projects or expenditures for which an intent to reimburse was properly declared under Treasury
Regulations Section 1.150-2. This Ordinance is in itself a declaration of official intent under Treasury
Regulations Section 1.150-2 as to all costs of the 2008 Cash Management Project paid after the date
hereof and prior to issuance of the Notes.
SECTION 17.

OPINION OF COUNSEL EXCEPTION.

The County reserves the right to use or invest moneys in connection with the Notes in any
manner, notwithstanding the tax-related covenants set forth in Sections 13 through 16 herein, provided,
that it shall first have received an opinion from Bond Counsel, or, in the event Bond Counsel is unable or
unwilling to provide such opinion, then from an attorney or a firm of attorneys of nationally recognized
standing as bond counsel, to the effect that such use or investment as contemplated is valid and proper
under applicable law and this Ordinance and that such use or investment will not adversely affect the Tax
Exempt status of the Tax Exempt Notes.

 page 21
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 18.

CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING.

If required, any Designated Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver one or more
Continuing Disclosure Undertakings, each in customary form, to effect compliance with Rule 15c2-12
adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When
any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed and delivered on behalf of the County, it will be
binding on the County and the officers, agents, and employees of the County, and the same are hereby
authorized and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be
necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of such Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as
executed and delivered. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies for failure to
comply with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial owner of any
Note to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order, to cause to the County to comply with its
obligations thereunder.
SECTION 19.

INDENTURE.

Any Indenture for Variable Rate Notes shall conform as fully as may be practicable to the
provisions of Sections 20 to 46, inclusive, hereof, but need not be identical, giving effect to the unique
features of such Notes.
SECTION 20.

PAYMENT AND DISCHARGE; REFUNDING.

Variable Rate Notes shall be subject to payment, provision for payment and defeasance as
provided in a relevant Indenture. Current Interest Notes and Capital Appreciation Notes may be
discharged, payment provided for, and the County’s liability terminated as follows:
(a)
Discharge of Indebtedness. If (i) the County shall pay or cause to be paid to the
registered owners of the Notes the principal, premium, if any, and interest, in the case of Current
Interest Notes, and the Maturity Amount, in the case of Capital Appreciation Notes, to become
due thereon at the times and in the manner stipulated therein and herein, (ii) all fees and expenses
of the Trustee shall have been paid, and (iii) the County shall keep, perform and observe all and
singular the covenants and promises in the Notes and in this Ordinance expressed as to be kept,
performed and observed by it or on its part, then these presents and the rights hereby granted shall
cease, determine and be void. If the County shall pay or cause to be paid to the registered owners
of all Outstanding Notes of a particular Series, or of a particular maturity within a Series, the
principal, premium, if any, and interest, in the case of Current Interest Notes, and the Maturity
Amount, in the case of Capital Appreciation Notes, to become due thereon at the times and in the
manner stipulated therein and herein, such Notes shall cease to be entitled to any lien, benefit or
security under the Ordinance, and all covenants, agreements and obligations of the County to the
holders of such Notes shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void and discharged and
satisfied.
(b)
Provision for Payment. Notes for the payment or redemption or prepayment of
which sufficient monies or sufficient Defeasance Obligations shall have been deposited with the
Trustee or an escrow agent having fiduciary capaCounty (whether upon or prior to the maturity or
the redemption date of such Notes) shall be deemed to be paid within the meaning of this
Ordinance and no longer outstanding under this Ordinance; provided, however, that if such Notes
are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been duly
given as provided in this Ordinance or arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been
made for the giving thereof. Defeasance Obligations shall be considered sufficient only if said
investments mature and bear interest in such amounts and at such times as will assure sufficient
cash to pay currently maturing interest, principal or Maturity Amount, as applicable, and
redemption premiums if any when due on the Notes without rendering the interest on any Notes
taxable under the Code.
The County may at any time surrender to the Trustee for cancellation by it any Notes previously
authenticated and delivered hereunder, which the County may have acquired in any manner whatsoever,
and such Notes, upon such surrender and cancellation, shall be deemed to be paid and retired.

 page 22
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(c)
Termination of County’s Liability. Upon the discharge of indebtedness under
paragraph (a) hereof, or upon the deposit with the Trustee of sufficient money and Defeasance
Obligations (such sufficiency being determined as provided in paragraph (b) hereof) for the
retirement of any particular Note or Notes, all liability of the County in respect of such Note or
Notes shall cease, determine and be completely discharged and the holders thereof shall thereafter
be entitled only to payment out of the money and the proceeds of the Defeasance Obligations
deposited with aforesaid for their payment.
SECTION 21.

DUTIES OF TRUSTEE.

(a) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee shall
exercise its rights and powers and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent
person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person’s own affairs.
(b) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee need
perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Ordinance and no others. In the absence of
bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the
correctness of the opinions expressed, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and
conforming to the requirements of this Ordinance. However, the Trustee shall examine the certificates
and opinions to determine whether they conform to the requirements of this Ordinance.
(c) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee may
not be relieved from liability for its own gross negligent action, its own gross negligent failure to act or its
own willful misconduct, except that:
(1)

this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section,

(2)
the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a
responsible officer of the Trustee, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in
ascertaining the pertinent facts,
(3)
no provision of this Ordinance shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own
funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder
or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing
that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably
assured to it.
(d) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, every provision of
this Ordinance that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to all the paragraphs of this Section.
(e) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee may
refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power, or to make any payment on any Note to any
holder of such Note, unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
(f)
Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee shall
not be liable for interest on any cash held by it except as the Trustee may agree with the County or as set
forth herein.
SECTION 22.

RIGHTS OF TRUSTEE.

Subject to the foregoing Section and subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable
Rate Notes:
(a)
The Trustee may rely on any document reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to
have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter
stated in the document.

 page 23
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(b)
Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require a certificate of an
appropriate officer or officers of the County or an opinion of counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for
any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion of counsel.
(c)
The Trustee may act through agents or co-trustees and shall not be responsible for the
misconduct or negligence of any agent or co-trustee appointed with due care.
SECTION 23.

INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS OF TRUSTEE.

The Trustee in its individual or any other capaCounty may become the owner or pledgee of Notes
and may otherwise deal with the County with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any
paying agent may do the same with like rights.
SECTION 24.

TRUSTEE’S DISCLAIMER.

The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Ordinance or the
Notes; it shall not be accountable for the County’s use of the proceeds from the Notes paid to the County,
and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Notes other than its certificate of authentication.
SECTION 25.

ELIGIBILITY OF TRUSTEE.

This Ordinance and any Indenture shall always have a Trustee that is a commercial bank with
trust powers or a trust company organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or any
state or the District of Columbia, is authorized under such laws and the laws of the State to exercise
corporate trust powers and is subject to supervision or examination by United States or State authority. If
at any time the Trustee ceases to be eligible in accordance with this Section, the Trustee shall resign
immediately as set forth in Section 26.
SECTION 26.

REPLACEMENT OF TRUSTEE.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, the Trustee may resign
with thirty (30) days’ written notice to the County, effective upon the execution, acknowledgment and
delivery by a successor Trustee to the County of appropriate instruments of succession. Provided that no
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the County may remove the Trustee and appoint
a successor Trustee at any time by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing delivered to the
Trustee; provided, however, that the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes
outstanding at the time may at any time remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee by an
instrument or concurrent instrument in writing signed by such Noteholders, and further provided that any
conflict between the County and such holders regarding such removal and appointment shall be resolved
in favor of such holders. Such successor Trustee shall be a corporation authorized under applicable laws
to exercise corporate trust powers and may be incorporated under the laws of the United States or of the
State. Such successor Trustee shall in all respects meet the requirements set forth in Section 25 hereof.
Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, if the Trustee resigns or
is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the County shall promptly
appoint a successor Trustee.
Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, a successor Trustee shall
deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the County. Immediately
thereafter, the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee; the
resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall then (but only then) become effective, and the
successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Ordinance and the
relevant Indenture.
Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, if a successor Trustee
does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee,
the County or the registered owners a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may
petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.

 page 24
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 27.

SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE BY MERGER.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, if the Trustee
consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its assets (or, in the case of a
bank or trust company, its corporate trust assets) to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or
transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
SECTION 28.

COMPENSATION.

All reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee shall be paid by the County from cash on hand
and lawfully available.
SECTION 29.

DEFINITION OF EVENTS OF DEFAULT; REMEDIES.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, if one or more of the
following events, herein called “Events of Default”, shall happen, that is to say, in case:
(i)
default shall be made in the payment of the principal of or redemption premium,
if any, or the Maturity Amount on any Outstanding Note when the same shall become due and
payable, either at maturity or by proceedings for redemption or otherwise; or
(ii)
default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest on any
Outstanding Note when and as such installment of interest shall become due and payable; or
(iii)
the County shall (l) commence a voluntary case under the Federal bankruptcy
laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other applicable Federal or state bankruptcy,
insolvency or other similar law, (2) make an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (3)
consent to the appointment of a receiver of itself or of the whole or any substantial part of its
property, or (4) be adjudicated a bankrupt or any petition for relief shall be filed in respect of an
involuntary case under the Federal bankruptcy laws, as now or hereafter constituted, or any other
applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law and such order continue in
effect for a period of 60 days without stay or vacation; or
(iv)
a court of competent jurisdiction shall enter an order, judgment or decree
appointing a receiver of the County, or of the whole or any substantial part of its property, or
approving a petition seeking reorganization of the County under the Federal bankruptcy laws or
any other applicable Federal or state law or statute and such order, judgment or decree shall not
be vacated or set aside or stayed within 60 days from the date of the entry thereof; or
(v)
under the provisions of any other law for the relief or aid of debtors, any court of
competent jurisdiction shall assume custody or control of the County or of the whole or any
substantial part of its property, and such custody or control shall not be terminated or stayed
within 60 days from the date of assumption of such custody or control;
then in each and every such case the Trustee may, and upon the written request of the registered owners
of twenty-five percent (25%) in principal amount of the Notes (measured by principal amount of Current
Interest Notes and Variable Rate Notes and by the then Compound Accreted Value of Capital
Appreciation Notes) affected by the Event of Default and then outstanding hereunder shall, proceed to
protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the holders of the Notes by a suit, action or special
proceeding in equity or at law, by mandamus or otherwise, either for the specific performance of any
covenant or agreement contained herein or in aid or execution of any power herein granted or for any
enforcement of any proper legal or equitable remedy as the Trustee, being advised by counsel, shall deem
most effectual to protect and enforce the rights aforesaid.
During the continuance of an Event of Default, all Pledged Taxes received by the Trustee under
this Ordinance from the County shall be applied by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of Section 37
of this Ordinance.

 page 25
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 30.

NOTICES OF DEFAULT; UNDER ORDINANCE.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, promptly after the
occurrence of an Event of Default or the occurrence of an event which, with the passage of time or the
giving of notice or both, would constitute an Event of Default, the Trustee shall mail to the Noteholders at
the address shown on the Note Register, the Insurer, and also directly to any beneficial owner of $500,000
or more in aggregate principal amount of Current Interest Notes or Variable Rate Notes or Original
Principal Amount of Capital Appreciation Notes then Outstanding at such address as the Trustee shall
obtain from the Depository, notice of all Events of Default or such events known to the Trustee unless
such defaults or prospective defaults shall have been cured before the giving of such notice.
SECTION 31.

TERMINATION OF PROCEEDINGS BY TRUSTEE.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, in case any proceedings
taken by the Trustee on account of any default shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason,
or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the County, the
Trustee, the Noteholders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively, and
all rights, remedies and powers of the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceeding had been
taken.
SECTION 32.

RIGHT OF HOLDERS TO CONTROL PROCEEDINGS.

Subject to the provisions of any Commitment, and subject to a different provision in an Indenture
for Variable Rate Notes, anything in this Ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding, the registered owners
of a majority in principal amount of the Notes (measured by principal amount of Current Interest Notes
and Variable Rate Notes and by the then Compound Accreted Value of Capital Appreciation Notes) then
outstanding shall have the right, by an instrument in writing executed and delivered to the Trustee, to
direct the method and place of conducting all remedial proceedings to be taken by the Trustee hereunder
in respect of the Notes, respectively; provided that such direction shall not be otherwise than in
accordance with law and the Trustee shall be indemnified to its satisfaction against the costs, expenses
and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby.
SECTION 33.

RIGHT OF HOLDERS TO INSTITUTE SUIT.

Subject to the provisions of any Commitment, and subject to a different provision in an Indenture
for Variable Rate Notes, no holder of any of the Notes shall have any right to institute any suit, action or
proceeding in equity or at law for the execution of any trust hereunder, or for any other remedy hereunder
or on the Notes unless such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of
Default as hereinabove provided, and unless also the registered owners of twenty-five percent (25%) in
principal amount of the Notes (measured by principal amount of Current Interest Notes and Variable Rate
Notes and by the then Compound Accreted Value of Capital Appreciation Notes) then outstanding shall
have made written request of the Trustee after the right to exercise such powers, or right of action, as the
case may be, shall have accrued, and shall have afforded the Trustee a reasonable opportunity either to
proceed to exercise the powers hereinbefore granted, or to institute such action, suit, or proceeding in its
name; and unless, also, there shall have been offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to
it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee shall have
refused or neglected to comply with such request within a reasonable time; and such notification, request
and offer of indemnity are hereby declared in every such case, at the option of the Trustee, to be
conditions precedent to the execution of the powers and trusts of this Ordinance or for any other remedy
hereunder; it being understood and intended that no one or more holders of the Notes shall have any right
in any manner whatever by his, her or their action to affect, disturb or prejudice the security of this
Ordinance, or to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and that all
proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained in the manner herein provided and
for the equal benefit of all holders of the outstanding Notes, respectively.
Nothing in this Section contained shall, however, affect or impair the right of any Noteholder,
which is absolute and unconditional, to enforce the payment of the principal of and redemption premium,
if any, and interest on his or her Notes, respectively, out of the Note Fund, or the obligation of the County
to pay the same, at the time and place in the Notes expressed.

 page 26
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 34.

SUITS BY TRUSTEE.

All rights of action under this Ordinance, or under any of the Notes, enforceable by the Trustee,
may be enforced by it without the possession of any of the Notes or the production thereof at the trial or
other proceeding relative thereto, and any such suit, or proceeding, instituted by the Trustee shall be
brought in its name for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Notes affected by such suit or proceeding,
subject to the provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION 35.

REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.

No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee, the Noteholders, or to the Insurer is
intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every such remedy shall be
cumulative, and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at
law or in equity or by statute.
SECTION 36.

WAIVER OF DEFAULT.

No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Noteholder to exercise any right or power accruing
upon any default shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such
default, or an acquiescence therein; and every power and remedy given by this Section to the Trustee and
the Noteholders, respectively, may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed
expedient. In the event any Event of Default shall be waived by the Noteholders or the Trustee, such
waiver shall be limited to the particular Event of Default so waived and shall not be deemed to waive any
other Event of Default hereunder.
SECTION 37.

APPLICATION OF MONIES AFTER DEFAULT.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, and subject to any
Commitment, the County covenants that if an Event of Default shall happen and shall not have been
remedied, the Trustee shall apply all monies, securities and funds received by the Trustee pursuant to any
right given or action taken under the provisions of this Article as follows:
(1)
First, to the payment of all reasonable costs and expenses of collection, fees, and
other amounts due to the Trustee hereunder; and thereafter,
(2)
Second, to the payment of amounts, if any, payable to the United States Treasury
pursuant to any Tax Agreement;
(3)

All such monies shall be applied as follows:

(A)
first, to the payment to the persons entitled thereto of all installments of
interest on Outstanding Notes then due, in the order of the maturity of such installments,
and, if the amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full any particular
installment, then to the payment ratably, according to the amounts due on such
installment, to the persons entitled thereto, without any discrimination or preference;
(B)
second, to the payment to the persons entitled thereto of the unpaid
principal or then current Compound Accreted Value of and premium, if any, on any of
the Outstanding Notes which shall have become due (other than Notes matured or called
for redemption for the payment of which monies are held pursuant to the provisions of
this Ordinance), in the order of their due dates, with interest upon such Outstanding
Current Interest Notes from the respective dates upon which they became due, and, if the
amount available shall not be sufficient to pay in full Outstanding Notes due on any
particular date, together with such premium, then to the payment ratably according to the
amount of principal and premium due on such date, and then to the payment of such
principal or then current Compound Accreted Value ratably according to the amount of
such principal due on such date, to the persons entitled thereto without any discrimination
or preference; and

 page 27
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(C)

third, to the payment of Swap Payments.

Whenever monies are to be applied by the Trustee pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, such
monies shall be applied by the Trustee at such times, and from time to time, as the Trustee in its sole
discretion shall determine, having due regard to the amount of such monies available for application and
the likelihood of additional monies becoming available for such application in the future. The deposit of
such monies with the paying agents, or otherwise setting aside such monies, in trust for the proper
purpose, shall constitute proper application by the Trustee; and the Trustee shall incur no liability
whatsoever to the County to any Noteholder or to any other person for any delay in applying any such
funds, so long as the Trustee acts with reasonable diligence, having due regard to the circumstances, and
ultimately applies the same in accordance with such provisions of this Ordinance as may be applicable at
the time of application by the Trustee. Whenever the Trustee shall exercise such discretion in applying
such funds, it shall fix the date (which shall be an interest payment date unless the Trustee shall deem
another date more suitable) upon which such application is to be made and upon such date interest on the
amounts of principal paid on such date shall cease to accrue. The Trustee shall give such notice as it may
deem appropriate of the fixing of any such date and of the endorsement to be entered on each Note on
which payment shall be made, and shall not be required to make payment to the holder of any unpaid
Note until such Note shall be presented to the Trustee for appropriate endorsement, or some other
procedure deemed satisfactory by the Trustee.
SECTION 38.

THIS ORDINANCE A CONTRACT.

The provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a contract between the County and the registered
owners of the Notes, and no changes, additions or alterations of any kind shall be made hereto, except as
herein provided.
SECTION 39.

SUPPLEMENTAL ORDINANCES.

Supplemental ordinances may be passed as follows:
(a)
Supplemental Ordinances Not Requiring Consent of Noteholders. The County
by the Corporate Authorities, and the Trustee from time to time and at any time, subject to the
conditions and restrictions in this Ordinance and any Commitment contained, may pass and
accept an ordinance or ordinances supplemental hereto, which ordinance or ordinances thereafter
shall form a part hereof, for any one or more of the following purposes:
(i)
To add to the covenants and agreements of the County in this Ordinance
contained, other covenants and agreements thereafter to be observed or to surrender,
restrict or limit any right or power herein reserved to or conferred upon the County;
(ii)
To make such provisions for the purpose of curing any ambiguity, or of
curing, correcting or supplementing any defective provision contained in this Ordinance,
or in regard to matters or questions arising under this Ordinance, as the County may deem
necessary or desirable and not inconsistent with this Ordinance and which in the opinion
of the Trustee shall not adversely affect the interests of the registered owners of the
Notes;
(iii)
To designate one or more tender or similar agents of the Trustee, Note
registrars or paying agents;
(iv)
To comply with the provisions of Section 20 hereof when money and the
Defeasance Obligations designated therein sufficient to provide for the retirement of
Notes shall have been deposited with the Trustee; and
(v)
as to Notes which are authorized but unissued hereunder to change in any
way the terms upon which such Notes may be issued or secured.

 page 28
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Any supplemental ordinance authorized by the provisions of this Section may be passed by the
County and accepted by the Trustee without the consent of or notice to the registered owners of
any of the Notes at the time outstanding, but with notice to the Insurer, notwithstanding any of the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to accept any
such supplemental ordinance which affects the Trustee’s own rights, duties or immunities under
this Ordinance or otherwise.
(b)
Supplemental Ordinances Requiring Consent of Noteholders. With the consent
(evidenced as provided in Section 43) of the registered owners of not less than a majority in
aggregate principal amount of the Notes, at the time outstanding, and subject to any Commitment,
the County, by the Corporate Authorities may pass, and the Trustee may accept from time to time
and at any time an ordinance or ordinances supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any
provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Ordinance or
of any supplemental ordinance; provided that no such modification or amendment shall extend
the maturity or reduce the interest rate on or otherwise alter or impair the obligation of the County
to pay the principal, interest or redemption premium, if any, at the time and place and at the rate
and in the currency provided therein of any Note, without the express consent of the registered
owner of such Note or permit the creation of a preference or priority of any Note or Notes over
any other Note or Notes, or reduce the percentage of Notes, respectively, required for the
affirmative vote or written consent to an amendment or modification, or deprive the registered
owners of the Notes (except as aforesaid) of the right to payment of the Notes from the Pledged
Taxes without the consent of the registered owners of all the Notes then outstanding. Upon
receipt by the Trustee of a certified copy of such ordinance and upon the filing with the Trustee of
evidence of the consent of Noteholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall accept unless such
supplemental ordinance affects the Trustee’s own rights, duties or immunities under this
Ordinance or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated
to, accept such supplemental ordinance.
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Noteholders under this paragraph to approve the
particular form of any proposed supplemental ordinance, but it shall be sufficient if such consent
shall approve the substance thereof.
Promptly after the passage by the County and the acceptance by the Trustee of any supplemental
ordinance pertaining to the Notes pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, the County shall
publish a notice, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental ordinance, at
least once in a financial newspaper or journal printed in the English language, customarily
published on each business day and of general circulation among dealers in municipal securities
in the County of New York, New York. If, because of temporary or permanent suspension of the
publication or general circulation of any financial newspaper or journal or for any other reason it
is impossible or impractical to publish such notice of supplemental ordinance in the manner
herein provided, then such publication in lieu thereof as shall be made with the approval of the
Trustee shall constitute sufficient publication of notice. Any failure of the County to given such
notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any
such supplemental ordinance.
(c)
Supplemental Ordinance to Modify this Ordinance. Upon the execution of any
supplemental ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this Section, this Ordinance shall be
modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, duties and obligations
under this Ordinance of the County, the Trustee and all registered owners of Noteholders,
respectively, outstanding thereunder shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced
hereunder subject in all respects to such modification and amendments, and all the terms and
conditions of any such supplemental ordinance shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and
conditions of this Ordinance for any and all purposes.
(d)
Trustee May Rely Upon Opinion of Counsel Re: Supplemental Ordinance. The
Trustee may receive an opinion of counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental
ordinance executed pursuant to the provisions of this Section complies with the requirements of
this Section.

 page 29
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(e)
Notation. Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any
supplemental ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this Section may bear a notation, in form
approved by the Trustee, as to any matter provided for in such supplemental ordinance, and if
such supplemental ordinance shall so provide, new Notes, so modified as to conform, in the
opinion of the Trustee and the Corporate Authorities, to any modification of this Ordinance
contained in any such supplemental ordinance, may be prepared by the County, authenticated by
the Trustee and delivered without cost to the registered owners of the Notes then outstanding,
upon surrender for cancellation of such Notes in equal aggregate principal amounts.
SECTION 40.

EFFECT OF CONSENTS.

After an amendment or supplement to this Ordinance becomes effective, it will bind every
Noteholder. For purposes of determining the total number of Noteholders’ consents, each Noteholder’s
consent will be effective with respect to the Noteholder who consented to it and each subsequent holder
of a Note or portion of a Note evidencing the same debt as the consenting holder’s Note.
SECTION 41.

SIGNING BY TRUSTEE OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS.

The Trustee will sign any amendment or supplement to the Ordinance or the Notes authorized
hereunder if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or
immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign it. In signing an amendment or
supplement, the Trustee will be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 21 of this Ordinance) will be
fully protected in relying on an opinion of counsel stating that such amendment or supplement is
authorized by this Ordinance.
SECTION 42.

NOTICES.

(a) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, any notice, request,
direction, designation, consent, acknowledgment, certification, appointment, waiver or other
communication required or permitted by this Ordinance or the Notes must be in writing except as
expressly provided otherwise in this Ordinance or the Notes.
(b) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, any notice or other
communication shall be sufficiently given and deemed given when delivered by hand or mailed by firstclass mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: if to the County, to The County of Cook, Illinois, 118
North Clark Street, Room 1127, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attention: Chief Financial Officer; if to the
Trustee, at such address as shall be provided to the County by the Trustee. Any addressee may designate
additional or different addresses for purposes of this Section.
(c) Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, any notice or other
communication required to any Noteholder shall be sufficiently given and deemed given when delivered
by hand or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such Noteholder at the address set
forth in the Note Register.
(d) Any notice or other communication required to be given directly to any beneficial owner of
$500,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding shall be sufficiently given and
deemed given when delivered by hand or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to such beneficial
owner at the address provided by the Depository.
SECTION 43.

NOTEHOLDERS’ CONSENTS.

Subject to a different provision in an Indenture for Variable Rate Notes, any consent or other
instrument required by this Ordinance to be signed by Noteholders may be in any number of concurrent
documents and may be signed by a Noteholder by the holder’s agent appointed in writing. Proof of the
execution of such instrument or of the instrument appointing an agent and of the ownership of Notes, if
made in the following manner, shall be conclusive for any purposes of this Ordinance with regard to any
action taken by the Trustee under the instrument:

 page 30
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(a)
The fact and date of a person’s signing an instrument may be proved by the
certificate of any officer in any jurisdiction who by law has power to take acknowledgments
within that jurisdiction that the person signing the writing acknowledged before the officer the
execution of the writing, or by an affidavit of any witness to the signing.
(b)
The fact of ownership of Notes, the amount or amounts, numbers and other
identification of such Notes and the date of holding shall be proved by the registration books kept
pursuant to this Ordinance.
Any action, consent or other instrument shall be irrevocable and shall bind any subsequent owner
of such Note or any Note delivered in substitution therefore.
For purposes of determining consent under this Ordinance of holders of the Notes, the
outstanding principal amount of the Notes shall be deemed to exclude the Notes owned by or under the
control of the County.
SECTION 44.

LIMITATION OF RIGHTS.

Nothing expressed or implied in this Ordinance or the Notes shall give any person other than the
Trustee, the County, or the Noteholders any right, remedy or claim under or with respect to this
Ordinance.
SECTION 45.

PARTIAL INVALIDITY.

If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be held invalid, the
invalidity of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of
this Ordinance.
SECTION 46.

LIST OF NOTEHOLDERS.

The Trustee shall maintain a list of the names and addresses of the holders of all Notes and upon
any transfer shall add the name and address of the new Noteholder and eliminate the name and address of
the transferor Noteholder.
SECTION 47.

RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF TRUSTEE.

If requested by the Trustee, the President and County Clerk of the County are authorized to
execute the Trustee’s standard form of agreement between the County and the Trustee with respect to the
obligations and duties of the Trustee as Note Registrar hereunder which may include the following:
(a)
to act as Note registrar, authenticating agent, paying agent and transfer agent as
provided herein;
(b)
to maintain a list of Noteholders as set forth herein and to furnish such list to the
County upon request, but otherwise to keep such list confidential;
(c)

to give notice of redemption of Notes as provided herein;

(d)
to cancel and/or destroy Notes which have been paid at maturity or upon earlier
redemption or submitted for exchange or transfer;
(e)
to furnish the County at least annually a certificate with respect to Notes
cancelled and/or destroyed; and
(f)
to furnish the County at least annually an audit confirmation of Notes paid, Notes
Outstanding and payments made with respect to interest on the Notes.
The County Clerk of the County is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this Ordinance with
the Trustee.

 page 31
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
SECTION 48.

PRIOR INCONSISTENT PROCEEDINGS.

All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions of
this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
SECTION 49.

IMMUNITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF COUNTY.

No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or premium or interest on any of the
Notes or for any claim based thereon or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Ordinance
contained against any past, present or future elected or appointed officer, director, member, employee or
agent of the County, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the County
or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or constitution or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such elected or
appointed officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is hereby expressly waived and
released as a condition of and consideration for the passage of this Ordinance and the issuance of such
Notes.

SECTION 50.

EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Ordinance shall be in effect upon approval.

RESOLUTION
ITEM #4
APPROVED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council originated in 1982, when a small group of African-American
judges met to discuss problems common to black judges; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council was formally incorporated in 1988 by Judges Russell R.
DeBow, Marion Garnett, Glenn T. Johnson, William E. Peterson, Albert S. Porter, Lucia T. Thomas,
Charles J. Durham, Everette A. Braden and Kenneth Wilson; and
WHEREAS, the stated purpose of the Illinois Judicial Council was to “enhance the image of the
judiciary and improve the quality of life in the community through educational enlightenment as to the
manner in which the legal process serves the community; and
WHEREAS, to this end, the Illinois Judicial Council has awarded thousands of dollars in law school
scholarships to minority and needy students; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council participates annually with the Circuit Court of Cook County in
“Law Day”; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council conducts a high school essay project, currently spearheaded by
Judge Cheryl D. Ingram-Stone; and
WHEREAS, for a number of years, the Illinois Judicial Council partnered with the Chicago Housing
Authority to provide its residents with a library, camp scholarships, assistance in securing summer jobs
for youth, and Christmas parties with food baskets and toys for those in need; and

 page 32
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #4 cont’d
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council works with community groups such as the Cook County Bar
Association, Black Women Lawyers Association, Illinois State Bar Association, Illinois Judges
Association, Rainbow PUSH Coalition, Chicago Bar Association, and numerous churches and civic
groups to present educational programs regarding the court system; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Judicial Council has grown to an organization of over 100 members and, while
it is primarily composed of African-American judges and judge officers of the state, it has grown to
include judges and judicial officials representing a myriad of ethnicities, as well as judges who serve on
the federal bench.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, as President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, and on behalf of all its citizens, recognize the Illinois Judicial Council for its
dedication to serving as both a positive role model and a resource to the youth of our community, for its
commitment to educating and enlightening the community about the legal process, and for striving to
provide equal access to the courts and justice.

 page 33
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
RESOLUTION
ITEM #5
APPROVED
The following item was deferred at the June 3, 2008 Board Meeting:
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS
and ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION CONDEMNING HUMAN TRAFFICKING
WHEREAS, HR 3887 as introduced and passed with only two dissents in the U.S. House of
Representatives, introduces a cohesive legal framework for fighting trafficking by combining and
streamlining efforts against the international and domestic sale of human beings; and
WHEREAS, HR 3887 constitutionally targets the demand for international trafficking by directly
addressing the networks that buy and sell women and children for commercial sexual exploitation; and
WHEREAS, HR 3887 removes a barrier to effective prosecutions against traffickers by making “force,
fraud and coercion” part of aggravated trafficking rather than a requirement for all convictions; and
WHEREAS, HR 3887 makes exporting sexual exploiters to other countries (“sex-tourism”) as significant
a crime as importing victims for sexual exploitation; and
WHEREAS, HR 3887 as drafted and passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, will assist many
victims of trafficking and the sex trade in Cook County; in Chicago alone, 16,000 – 25,000 women and
girls are involved in prostitution every year; this bill will enhance legal options on a federal level to help
stem a significant piece of why so many women and children are forced into the sex trade in Chicago and
Cook County: the pimps and traffickers; and
WHEREAS, in October of 2007, the Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues released the report,
“The Realities of Trafficking” in Cook County that documented the scope of the problem in Cook
County; and
WHEREAS, sixty-two percent of women and girls in prostitution in Illinois were first pimped out before
they were 18 and one third of women and girls in prostitution first become involved before age 15; many
adult women in Illinois are also trafficked and pimped by third parties who financially profit from
keeping them in prostitution; the majority of these adult women would face violence if they did not give
the money they make in the sex trade to these third parties; and
WHEREAS, pimps and traffickers do not always use force, fraud or coercion to bring adult women into
prostitution, but pimping and trafficking is always unlawful, and it is virtually always practiced on
previously harmed, notably vulnerable and objectively disempowered women; and
WHEREAS, seventy-five percent of women and girls in prostitution in Illinois are survivors of sexual
assault, most of multiple rapes and sixty-six percent are victims of incest; and
WHEREAS, fifty percent of women and girls in prostitution are homeless; often trading sex is the only
means of survival for these women and girls; pimps and traffickers often exploit these economic
hardships to maintain adults and children in prostitution; many traffickers and pimps profit from the
commercial sexual exploitation while the women and children trafficked remain poor.

 page 34
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
RESOLUTION
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby condemn the trafficking of human beings and support efforts to prosecute those who profit from
the exploitation of women and children; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does hereby
commend the U.S. House of Representatives and the Cook County delegation for their leadership in
expanding federal anti-trafficking legislation so that it more accurately represents the experiences of
victims in Cook County and expands the ability of federal prosecutors to bring domestic traffickers to
justice; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does hereby urge
United State Senators Richard J. Durbin and Barack Obama to support HR 3887 and the United States
Senate to pass the measure without modification; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this Resolution be forwarded to United States
Senators Richard J. Durbin and Barack Obama.
CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEM #6
APPROVED
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-108(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk
of the Board.
There are 10 Consent Calendar items for the June 17, 2008 Board Meeting.
CC ITEM #1
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
COMMEMORATING THE BERWYN CENTENNIAL
WHEREAS, the city now known as Berwyn began when two attorneys and land developers, Charles E.
Piper and Wilbur J. Andrews purchased 106 acres from the Field syndicate for the development near the
Chicago Burlington & Quincy Railroad tracks in 1890; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Piper and Mr. Andrews built a train station at Oak Park Avenue after the railroad had
refused to build one; and
WHEREAS, the railroad did agree to stop at the station, which was named Berwyn after an affluent
suburb of Philadelphia that Piper and Andrews hoped to replicate in Cook County; and

 page 35
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #1 cont’d
WHEREAS, a general store and an office building were soon constructed, followed by a small post
office; and
WHEREAS, homes quickly followed and gradually, eight miles of streets were macadamized and
sidewalks were laid; and
WHEREAS, around this same time another community one and a half miles north of the one developed
by Piper and Andrews was developing on the north side of present day Berwyn, aided by “Honest John”
Kelly; and
WHEREAS, this area was known as South Oak Park and extended from Roosevelt Road to 16th Street
and from Ridgeland to Harlem; and
WHEREAS, the two areas were connected only by two dirt roads, Oak Park Avenue and Ridgeland
Avenue did not have matching street names and had their own churches, stores clubs and public
transportation; and
WHEREAS, at the turn of the century, the Oak Park-River Forest School District set its boundaries at
Roosevelt Road, thus eliminating north Berwyn families and severing the tie between Berwyn and Oak
Park; and
WHEREAS, in 1901 residents of the north turned southward and joined together with the town of
Berwyn; and
WHEREAS, Berwyn was incorporated as a village in 1902, and became a city on June 6, 1908, receiving
its official charter from the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, in the years which followed, Berwyn continued to grow and attract new residents who were
drawn to Berwyn by the safety and stability of the community and overall high quality of life Berwyn had
to offer its residents; and
WHEREAS, June 6, 2008 marks the 100th Anniversary of Berwyn becoming a city.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners do hereby congratulate the people and leaders of Berwyn on their 100th Anniversary as a
city, and wish Berwyn continued success in the future as it celebrates its rich and varied past; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this Resolution be presented to the Mayor and
the Aldermen of the City of Berwyn in honor of the Berwyn Centennial.
* * * * *

 page 36
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #2
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner, TODD H. STROGER, President and
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, MIKE QUIGLEY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called George J. Preski from our midst; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was the beloved husband of Rose (nee Luna) Preski; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was the dear father of George (Debra) Preski, Michelle (Todd) LoCoco
and Jamie (Kimberly) Preski; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was the loving Papa of Alexis, Cara, Josie, Kendra, Abby and Matthew;
and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was the fond brother of Betty Gonzales, David and Richard; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski proudly served and protected the citizens of Chicago during his career with
the Chicago Police Department; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was a member of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons; and
WHEREAS, George J. Preski was an active and involved member of his community, with a deep and
abiding passion for public service and a concern for the welfare of all; and
WHEREAS, all who knew him will attest that George J. Preski was a kind and compassionate man,
virtuous of character and gentle in spirit, admired and respected by his many friends and neighbors, and
dearly loved by his family, to whom he was affectionately known as “Bro”.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board does hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and many
friends of George J. “Bro” Preski, and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and a suitable copy of same be tendered to the family of George J. Preski, that his memory may be
so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *

 page 37
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #3
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Global Committee Commemorating King Days was founded by Ms. EvAngel Mama
Dee YHWHnewBN (f/k/a Dee D. Smith Simmons) in 1984, after her sister, Helen Richard, became the
first female CTA driver to be slain in the line of duty; it is the only organization in the world that
preserves the historic significance of January 15, April 4 and August 28 in a concept called “Days of
Respect;” the Global Committee Commemorating King Days sponsored the first integrated festival in
Marquette Park's history on August 28, 1988 which was co-sponsored by the Mayor's Office of Special
Events; and
WHEREAS, the three “Days of Respect” visually affirm principles of human rights and civil rights;
January 15 is “Humanitarian Day,” and is represented by the color white; “Non-Violence Principles Day”
and “Victims of Violence Wholly Day” are the concerns of April 4, which is represented by black colors;
and August 28th is “Dream Day Quest” and concerns spiritual and moral principles of peoplehood; black
and white are worn in the spirit of “We are one in righteousness, justice and peace;” and
WHEREAS, this year’s theme is “Trailblazers from DuSable to Dr. King – Motivating Today’s History
Makers;” and
WHEREAS, Chicago's first non-Indian Settler, Jean Baptiste Pointe DuSable, died August 28, 1818 but
his vision for cultural diversity lives on; the Cook County Board of Commissioners honored him with a
resolution including a poem written by EvAngel Mama Dee YHWHnewBN, entitled “DuSable: a Poetic
Point,” that commemorated the 200th-year anniversary of his settlement; and
WHEREAS, on August 28, 1955, the kidnapping and lynching nightmare of 14-year-old Chicagoan,
Emmett Louis Till, took place; his open-casket funeral attracted 600,000; his mother, a retired Chicago
Public School teacher, coined the phrase “Movement” in a 1955 interview; and
WHEREAS, Rosa Parks said at the 1991 Emmett Till Road/71st Street Dedication, “It was what
happened to Emmett that gave me the courage to do what I did,” supporting the idea that the Till lynching
ignited the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s; and
WHEREAS, Medgar Evers was assassinated on June 12, 1963 and is buried in Arlington National
Cemetery; Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who was stoned in 1966 on 71st Street after marching in
Marquette Park for open housing, mentioned Medgar Evers and Emmett Till in his August 28, 1963 “I
Have a Dream” speech as having “faced atrocities so we wouldn't have to;” and
WHEREAS, Bob Dylan wrote a song about Emmett Till entitled “Blowing in the Wind” and wrote “The
Ballad of Medgar Evers” for the attorney and Mississippi NAACP Field Secretary who worked on the
Emmett Till case; and
WHEREAS, in 1987, EvAngel Mama Dee YHWHnewBN, minister, certified Montessori educator,
author and award-winning poet, conceived the idea for E.L. Till Road, wrote an ordinance and personally
lobbied and financed a three-and-one-half year crusade to get the street honored as a tool to teach
tolerance; her efforts are listed in Chicago’s Harold Washington Library's Sesquicentennial Archive
Special Collections Division; in 2005 she presented a proposal to the Chicago Board of Education to
rename McCosh Elementary; it is now named Emmett Till Math and Science Academy; and
WHEREAS, the 10 grammar schools located on Emmett Till Road/71st Street, from South Shore Drive
to Kedzie Avenue, are part of the Children's Coalition of Conscience Clinical Curriculum that uses elders
as historic links and “Mama Dee's Love Approach to Learning” as deterrents to violence; and

 page 38
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #3 cont’d
WHEREAS, marking the significance of August 28th's nightmare of Emmett Till, the dream of King and
the vision of DuSable, and utilizing the three visually affirmed Days of Respect concept are important
parts of the Illinois School Code Black History Study Mandate and American history.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby congratulate the Global Committee Commemorating King Days on its 24th annual Dream Day
Quest and this year's theme, “Trailblazers from DuSable to Dr. King, Motivating Today's History
Makers,” and does acknowledge the three visually affirmed Days of Respect; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this Resolution be presented to the Global Committee
Commemorating King Days and EvAngel Mama Dee YHWHnewBN.
* * * * *
ITEM #4
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues was created by resolution of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners on March 1, 1994, and first appointed by President John H. Stroger, Jr.
in October of 1995; and
WHEREAS, the Commission is composed of twenty-one women of various racial, economic, ethnic, and
occupational backgrounds representing the makeup of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Commission is charged with the task of ensuring women’s issues and perspectives are
considered in the formation of public policy in Cook County and to that end is authorized to advise the
President and members of the Board on ways to promote the status of women in county government,
improve the delivery of county services to women and their families and eliminate inequities in laws,
practices and conditions that have an impact on women in the county; and
WHEREAS, since its inception, the Commission on Women’s Issues has conducted research and
developed a number of program, policy and legislative recommendations to address such issues; and
WHEREAS, just in the last several years, the Commission has been instrumental in championing and
working to implement many important programs, which affect the welfare of women and girls in Cook
County, such as partnering with the “Save Abandoned Babies Foundation” to help protect the most
vulnerable in the county, namely, its infants; developing and drafting a revised policy to the County’s
Domestic and Sexual Violence Workplace Policy to bring it into compliance with the Illinois Victim’s
Economic and Security Act; initiating and partnering with multiple departments and agencies to open the
County of Cook/City of Chicago Child Development Center; and sponsoring its free luncheon seminar
series “The Healthy Woman; a Monthly Educational Series for Chicago’s Working Women”; and

 page 39
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #4 cont’d
WHEREAS, furthermore, the Commission continues to forge new partnerships, such as working with the
Mayor’s Office on domestic violence, and implementing the recommendations from the Intersystem
Assessment on Prostitution; and working with members of the Court-Involved-Girls-Advocacy-Group to
promote gender responsive services for girls in the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center;
and
WHEREAS, in addition to the above accomplishments, the Commission has held multiple very
successful public hearings including: “Girl Violence and Aggression: Problems and Solutions” and “The
Realities of Human Trafficking in Cook County”.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, does
hereby honor and congratulate the Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues, both present and
former members, as well as the Chairperson of the Commission, Ms. Peggy Montes for their many
contributions in making Cook County a better place for women and girls; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to Ms. Peggy Montes
to commemorate this resplendent occasion.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #5
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
MIKE QUIGLEY, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
IN MEMORY OF JIM B. FORD
WHEREAS, Jim B. Ford passed away Monday, May 19th, 2008 at Evanston Hospital; and
WHEREAS, Jim B. Ford was 49 years old; and
WHEREAS, Jim served as the Chief Deputy Clerk of Electronic Data for the Clerk of the Circuit Court
of Cook County for the last twelve years; and
WHEREAS, Jim provided oversight in the areas of data dissemination, court forms, Clerk of the Court’s
website and intranet; and
WHEREAS, he lead the team in the redesign of the Clerk of the Court’s website, which was launched in
2005; and
WHEREAS, he also facilitated the development of the Clerk of the Court’s intranet, which is widely
used by Clerk’s employees to obtain information about policies and procedures, commonly used forms,
office news and time accrual; and

 page 40
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #5 cont’d
WHEREAS, Jim was a significant participate in moving the Clerk’s eGovernment Initiative forward,
which included eFiling, eGuilty, Interactive Voice Response System, Imaging and Document
Management and Web Commerce; and
WHEREAS, he also helped to ensure compliance with the Administrative Office of the Illinois Court
(AOIC) for the Illinois Supreme Court rules as it pertained to Clerk’s Office technology initiatives by
participating as a member on its Electronic Users Group; and
WHEREAS, he also served as an integral member of Cook County’s Green Courts Task Force; and
WHEREAS, Jim was an exemplary student and athlete, throughout his high school and college careers,
receiving the Saint Laurence Leadership Award for Scholarship, Good Citizenship and Athletic Ability
while in high school; and
WHEREAS, he was also a Letterman in football and track, and received an Honorable Mention All-State
Football award in 1975; and
WHEREAS, in 1976 Jim received an Athletic Scholarship to Northwestern University for Football and
was a starting offensive linemen for four years; and
WHEREAS, Jim was also the recipient of the Academic All-American First Team, the Academic All-Big
Ten Conference, and the Big Ten Medal of Honor, the Big Ten’s oldest award, first awarded in 1914, the
award is given annually to a single student-athlete in the graduating class of each university who best
demonstrated proficiency in scholarship and athletics; and
WHEREAS, in 1985 Jim received his law degree from John Marshall Law School; and
WHEREAS, Jim was married to Geri for many years where together they had four children, Kathleen,
Luke, Jim and Elizabeth.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest sympathy to the friends and family of Jim Ford and joins them in commemorating
the great life and work of this outstanding man; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be prepared and presented to the
family of Jim B. Ford.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #6
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners

 page 41
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #6 cont’d
RESOLUTION
CONGRATULATING CARLA BUSH ON HER RETIREMENT
WHEREAS, Carla Bush will retire on June 27, 2008 as the Environmental Health Division Chief for the
City of Evanston Health and Human Services Department; and
WHEREAS, for 19 years, Carla Bush has been a dedicated civil servant to the residents of Evanston; and
WHEREAS, Carla Bush started with the City of Evanston as a sanitarian and moved up the career ladder
to Division Chief; and
WHEREAS, Carla Bush was instrumental in the planning and adoption of EPLAN, the Evanston Project
for the Local Assessment of Needs, a comprehensive survey of services and needs in Evanston, which
included focus groups, online surveys, and countless meetings with stakeholders, residents and city
council members; and
WHEREAS, Carla Bush helped to affect many improvements in efficiency and service to the residents of
Evanston, including online restaurant inspections; and
WHEREAS, Carla Bush was responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the new Evanston
Smoking Ban; and
WHEREAS, Carla Bush was an active member of the City of Evanston’s Green Team and created its
first lawn mower turn-in day; and
WHEREAS, in her retirement, Carla Bush plans to teach at Oakton Community College, travel and
volunteer for the Evanston Public Health Department.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer Carla Bush congratulations on her retirement and thanks her for her years of public service;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to Carla Bush.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #7
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners

 page 42
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #7 cont’d
RESOLUTION
CONGRATULATING NEIL CODELL ON HIS RETIREMENT
WHEREAS, Neil Codell will retire as Superintendent of Niles Township High School District 219 on
June 30, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell served as Superintendent since July 1, 2002; and
WHEREAS, prior to becoming Superintendent, Neil Codell was principal at Niles North High School for
three years; and
WHEREAS, as Superintendent, Neil Codell oversaw numerous significant achievements, including a
successful effort to pass a voter referendum to approve an increase to the education fund; extensive
capital improvements at both Niles North High School and Niles West High School; and a shift in day
structure from mods to periods; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell worked closely with teacher and support unions to improve harmony between
the bargaining units and management; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell initiated the practice of having student representatives on the District 219 Board
of Education; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell first appreciated what Niles Township schools offered when he attended Niles
West High School for two years as a teenager; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell earned a B.A. in history and a Master’s of Education in Historical Foundation
from Loyola University and began his career in education as a teacher at Senn High School in Chicago,
where he spent ten years working with students with social and emotional disorders; and
WHEREAS, Neil Codell first became a principal at West Elementary School in Waukegan, and also
served as principal at Addison Trail High School, Northwood Junior High School, and acting
superintendent at Highwood-Highland Park School District 111; and
WHEREAS, prior to coming to District 219, Neil Codell was principal at Whitefish Bay High School in
Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, where ACT scores improved to the highest in the state and National Honors
Society membership increased 50% during his tenure; and
WHEREAS, the students and residents of Niles Township and Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to
Neil Codell for his hard work and dedication to his job, and for his success in making Niles Township
High Schools such wonderful places of learning.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer Neil Codell congratulations on his retirement and thanks him for his years of public service;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to Neil Codell.
* * * * *

 page 43
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #8
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
IN MEMORY OF BERNARD H. BAUM
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum passed away on June 6, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum was a retired brigadier general in the U.S. Army and a veteran of World War
II; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum was born in 1926 in Giessen, Germany, but his family fled their native home
in 1933 after Adolf Hitler came to power; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum’s family moved to Chicago, where he graduated from Senn High School;
and
WHEREAS, after graduation, Bernard Baum joined the U.S. Army and returned to his home country to
fight against the Nazis; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum returned from Europe in 1946 to enter college at the University of Chicago,
where he eventually earned a doctorate in sociology; and
WHEREAS, after initially working for CNA Insurance, Bernard Baum returned to academia, teaching
management and health policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago for almost 40 years; and
WHEREAS, although still serving in the Army Reserve, Bernard Baum opposed the Vietnam War and
spoke out against it in the Evanston Independence Day parade by carrying a sign that read “Peace is
Patriotic,” earning the wrath of the Pentagon and resulting in the downgrading of his security clearance,
which was later restored; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum was active in the Jewish community, teaching religious school at four area
synagogues and serving on the boards of Evanston’s Beth Emet Synagogue and Chicago’s Selfhelp
Home; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum was preceded in death by his wife of 45 years, Barbara Eisendrath Baum,
and is survived by two sons, David and Jonathan; two daughters, Victoria and Lisa; nine grandchildren;
one brother; and one sister-in-law; and
WHEREAS, Bernard Baum will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew him and the
people of Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to Bernard Baum for his admirable service to his country,
outstanding civic involvement, and extensive contributions to the community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of Bernard
Baum and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of
Bernard Baum so that his memory may be so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *

 page 44
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #9
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
IN MEMORY OF WALTER A. NETSCH, JR.
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. passed away on June 15, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. was a world-renowned architect who designed numerous iconic
buildings in Chicago and throughout the country and world; and
WHEREAS, the work of Walter A. Netsch, Jr. represents a bridge between the boxy modernism of the
1950s and 1960s and the unorthodox, computer generated forms of contemporary architects like Frank
Gehry; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. was born in Chicago in 1920; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. received his architecture degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1943 and served in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. joined the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in 1947;
and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr.’s iconic work was the Cadet Chapel of the U.S. Air Force Academy in
Colorado Springs, Colorado, which received the American Institute of Architects’ Twenty-Five Year
Award in 1995; and
WHEREAS, using his “field theory” of shifting square shapes in a series of geometrically complex
skewed grids, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. designed the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Architecture and Art
Building in 1965; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. went on to design academic buildings for many institutes of higher
learning, including Northwestern University’s main library and Lindeheimer Astronomical Research
Center; the University of Chicago’s Regenstein Library; the east wing of the Art Institute of Chicago; and
Hermann Hall, the former student union building at the Illinois Institute of Technology; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. served as president of the Chicago Park District under Mayor Harold
Washington and initiated its decentralization into 13 smaller units; and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. is survived by his wife, Dawn Clark Netsch, two nephews and a niece;
and
WHEREAS, Walter A. Netsch, Jr. will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew him and
the people of Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to Walter A. Netsch, Jr. for his outstanding civic
involvement and extensive contributions to the community.

 page 45
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #9 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of Walter A.
Netsch, Jr. and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of Walter
A. Netsch, Jr. so that his memory may be so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #10
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
JERRY BUTLER, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
ROBERTO MALDONADO, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on June 2, 2008 Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called from our midst, Bo
Diddley; and
WHEREAS, Bo Diddley was born Ellas Otha Bates on December 30, 1928 in Macomb, Mississippi, he
migrated to Chicago, Illinois with his adoptive family in the 1930s legally embracing their McDaniel
surname. He studied the violin for twelve years before taking up the guitar in his early teens and it was at
this time he acquired the name Bo Diddley; and
WHEREAS, Bo Diddley began his legendary career in the mid 1940s, known for popularizing one of the
foundational rhythms of rock and roll: the Bo Diddley beat, a distinctive African-based 5/4 rhythm pattern
imitated by other artists it has been an idiosyncratic and recurring element in rock and roll since its
beginning; and
WHEREAS, Bo Diddley’s illustrious career spanned more than five decades, he was a prolific
songwriter and guitarist, whose contributions forever changed the music industry. He was one of the first
American musicians to feature women in his band, and set up one of the first home studios. Long
regarded as one of the founding fathers of rock and roll he achieved crossover success with a laugh-filled
exchange of jive talk with his maraca player, a prelude to today’s rap genre; and
WHEREAS, Bo Diddley has received numerous honors throughout his life, most recently in 1987 he was
inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; in 1996, he received a Lifetime Achievement Award from
the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, and in 1998 a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. At the dawn of
the millennium he was inducted into the Mississippi Musicians Hall of Fane, in 2002 he received a
Pioneer in Entertainment Award from the National Association of Black Broadcasters and in 2007 Bo
Diddley received the Governors Award of Excellence in the Arts for Lifetime Achievement from his
home state of Mississippi; and
WHEREAS, Bo Diddley left an indelible mark on contemporary music, the impact of his contributions
will influence generations of musicians around the globe for years to come.

 page 46
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #6 cont’d
CC ITEM #10 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby express its deep sorrow at the death of Ellas McDaniel, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his
family in their hour of sorrow and joins his family in honoring his memory; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of Mr.
Ellas McDaniel, “Bo Diddley”.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
ITEM #7
DETAILED INFORMATION REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORTS IS AVAILABLE FROM
THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Finance..................................................................................................................Meeting of June 17, 2008
APPROVED
Zoning & Building................................................................................................Meeting of June 17, 2008
APPROVED
Note: At this meeting Comm. No. 294365 – An Ordinance Amendment to the Cook County
Building Ordinance, Amending the Definition of Building Height was approved.
Roads & Bridges ...................................................................................................Meeting of June 17, 2008
APPROVED

 page 47
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOPERATIVE EDUCATIONAL MASTER AGREEMENT RENEWALS
ITEM #8
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to amend and renew the Sub-Agreement, Contract No.
02-43-1218 to the Master Affiliation Agreement for Medical Education and Clinical programs in Family
Practice between Loyola University of Chicago, the Loyola University Medical Center and the Bureau of
Health Services.
The sub-agreement provides for the continued assignment of resident physicians in the current Cook
County-Loyola Residency Program in Family Medicine and the continued assignment of two (2) faculty
members at Provident Hospital of Cook County.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,851,931.00 (FY 2008: $1,188,305.00; and FY 2009: $1,663,626.00).
Contract period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009. (891-272 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #9
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for aphersis and hemodialysis
services for Cermak Health Services of Cook County, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County and Provident
Hospital of Cook County.
Contract period: December 1, 2008 through November 30, 2010. (240-260, 891-260 and 898-260
Accounts). Requisition Nos. 92400001, 98910001 and 98980001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #10
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for maintenance and repair of
radiographic equipment at Provident Hospital of Cook County and Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County.
Contract period: January 22, 2009 through January 21, 2011.
Requisition Nos. 98910002 and 98980002.

(891-442 and 898-442 Accounts).

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.
* * * * *

 page 48
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES continued
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE continued
ITEM #11
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of surgical
composix mesh for Provident Hospital of Cook County, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County and Stroger
Hospital of Cook County.
Contract period: February 22, 2009 through February 21, 2012.
Accounts). Requisition Nos. 98910003, 98970001 and 98980003.

(891-362, 897-362 and 898-362

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #12
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of surgical grade
instruments, manufactured by the following manufacturers: Codman V. Mueller, Zimmer, Pilling, Walter
Lorenz, Aesculap, Weck and Vollrath for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County and Provident Hospital of
Cook County. These manufacturers provide the highest quality precision crafted instruments, with the
lowest instrument failure rate, which reduces the costly replacement and repair of lower grade
instruments. The instruments selected have a life-time guarantee and are only available through various
distributors.
Contract period: July 1 October 1, 2008 through June 30 September 30, 2011. (891-362 and 898-362
Accounts). Requisition Nos. 88911042 and 88980181.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
CONTRACT
ITEM #13
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Automatic Building
Controls, Inc., Park Ridge, Illinois, for maintenance and repair of the building automation control system.
Reason:

Automatic Building Controls, Inc. is the only authorized local manufacturer representative of
parts and service of the existing Alerton Technologies building automation control system
(BACS). This system controls the environmental energy management system throughout the
hospital.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $202,000.00 ($101,000.00 per year). Contract period: June 1, 2008 through
May 31, 2010. (890-450 Account). Requisition No. 88911231.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
The Purchasing Agent concurs.

 page 49
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES continued
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #14
DEFERRED TO THE JULY 1, 2008 BOARD MEETING
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $65,000.00 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 06-53-41 Rebid with Tech Refrigeration, Inc., Orland Park, Illinois, for
refrigeration maintenance and repair for Provident Hospital of Cook County.
Board approved amount 04-18-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$506,240.00
65,000.00
$571,240.00

The increase and extension is required to provide continued maintenance and repair services
for the various refrigeration equipment pending the bid, evaluation and award of the new
contract. The expiration date of the current contract was May 1, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $65,000.00. Contract extension: May 2, 2008 through August 1, 2008. (890450 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #15
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID R. SMALL, F.A.C.H.E., Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for three (3) months, Contract No. 07-72-175
with Sami Distributors, Woodridge, Illinois, for the purchase of radiopharmaceuticals for Provident
Hospital of Cook County and Stroger Hospital of Cook County.
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the bid, evaluation and award of the new
Bureau-wide contract. Approximately $483,907.00 remains on this contract for Stroger
Hospital of Cook County; and approximately $395,449.10 for Provident Hospital of Cook
County. The expiration date of the current contract is June 19, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: June 20, 2008 through September 19, 2008.

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #16
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SYLVIA EDWARDS, Acting Chief Operating Officer, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County
The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments and medical staff change with no
change in clinical privileges presented have been professionally reviewed and recommended for the status
shown. The Board of Commissioners will be notified confidentially when there are physicians herein
who have any malpractice claims or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously
been presented to the Board of Commissioners. Additional information concerning such matters will be
available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Board.

 page 50
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #16 cont’d
MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Lall, Sheera, D.O.
Department of Emergency Medicine
Account # 110; Grade K-9;
Step 05; Budget # 8980046;
Annual Salary $204,056.00; Appointment effective June 17, 2008

Active Physician
Position ID # 0500392;
through June 16, 2010

Adusumilli, Chowdary, M.D.
Department of Emergency Medicine
Affiliate Physician
Annual Salary No fiscal impact; Appointment effective June 17, 2008 through June 16, 2010
MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Department of Anesthesiology
Sheth, Darshana, M.D.
Anesthesiology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8980049;
Position ID # 9525657;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Emergency Medicine
Sigamony, Ranjit, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-4;
Step 05; Budget # 8980046;
Position ID # 9525637;
Annual Salary $140,990.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Medicine
Lachin, Zaia, M.D.
Department of Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-4;
Step 05; Budget # 8980030;
Position ID # 9525443;
Annual Salary $149,090.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Chou, Carmel, M.D.
Department of Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8980030;
Position ID # 0025455;
Annual Salary $168,487.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Clinical Neuroscience
Fernald, Jorge, M.D.
Department of Clinical Neuroscience
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-5;
Step 05; Budget # 8980036
Position ID # 9525522;
Annual Salary $162,601.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Rehab Medicine
Clar, Steven, M.D.
Annual Salary

Department of Rehabilitation
Medicine
No fiscal impact; Appointment effective

Affiliate Physician
July 12, 2008

through July 11, 2010

 page 51
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #16 cont’d
MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WITH NO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES
Makar, Emil, M.D.
Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-8; Step 05; Budget # 8980030; Position ID # 9525421;
Annual Salary $195,908.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8980030; Position ID #
9525421; Annual Salary $226,574.00
Totonchi, Kameel, M.D.
Anatomical & Clinical Pathology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-7; Step 05; Budget # 8980034; Position ID # 9525521;
Annual Salary $182,192.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 04; Budget # 8980034;
Position ID # 9525521; Annual Salary $213,388.00
Shafiei, Shams, M.D.
Medicine Intensive Care Unit
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-7; Step 05; Budget # 8984231; Position ID # 9525633;
Annual Salary $182,192.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-09; Step 05; Budget # 8984231;
Position ID # 9525633; Annual Salary $209,566.00
Hussain, Anwer, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Budget # 8980046;
$237,465.00

Affiliate to Active Physician
Position ID # 0500392;
Annual Salary

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #17
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments and medical staff change with no
change in clinical privileges presented have been professionally reviewed and recommended for the status
shown. The Board of Commissioners will be notified confidentially when there are physicians herein
who have any malpractice claims or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously
been presented to the Board of Commissioners. Additional information concerning such matters will be
available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Board.

MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Jordan, John, M.D.
Critical Care
Account # 155; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8910500;
$44,025.00; Appointment effective June 17, 2008

Status
Active Physician
Position ID # 9932257; Annual Salary
through June 16, 2010

Leak, Angel, M.D.
Medicine/Infectious Disease
Account # 155; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8912043;
Annual Salary $137,472.00; Appointment effective June 17, 2008

Active Physician
Position ID # 9932254;
through June 16, 2010

Nadeem, Ahmed, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8910506;
Annual Salary $217,440.00; Appointment effective June 17, 2008

Active Physician
Position ID # 0018819;
through June 16, 2010

 page 52
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #17 cont’d
MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Department of Emergency Medicine
Ampalloor, Sheba, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget# 8910506;
Position ID # 0189110;
Annual Salary $217,440.00; Reappointment effective August 8, 2008 through August 7, 2010
Department of Family Medicine
Barberousse, Lionel, MD.
Family Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-5;
Step 05; Budget # 8910504;
Position ID # 0700035;
Annual Salary $150,576.00; Reappointment effective May 16, 2008
through May 15, 2010
Ikedionwu, Chukweloka, M.D.
Family Medicine
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 04; Budget # 8910504;
Annual Salary $156,656.00; Reappointment effective July 9, 2008

Active Physician
Position ID # 0700062;
through July 8, 2010

Larsen, Camilla, M.D.
Family Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-5;
Step 04; Budget # 8910504;
Position ID # 0700039;
Annual Salary $143,884.00; Reappointment effective April 20, 2008 through April 19, 2010
McPherson, Julita, M.D.
Family Medicine
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 04; Budget # 8910504;
Annual Salary $156,656.00; Reappointment effective July 8, 2008
Miller, Joyce, M.D.
Family Medicine
Reappointment effective July 12, 2008
through July 11, 2010

Active Physician
Position ID # 0700057;
through July 7, 2010
Voluntary Physician

Department of Medicine
Bartt, Russell, M.D.
Medicine/Neurology
Annual Salary No fiscal impact;
Reappointment effective
September 14, 2010

Affiliate Physician
September 15, 2008 through

Khan, Akbar, M.D.
Medicine/Critical Care
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8910500;
Position ID #
9718774;
Annual Salary $217,440.00;
Reappointment effective
September 15, 2008 through
September 14, 2010
Rayner, Suzan, M.D.
Medicine/Rehabilitation
Voluntary Physician
Reappointment effective September 7, 2008 through September 6, 2010
Vyas, Jyotin, M.D.
Internal Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8910501;
Position ID # 9718783;
Annual Salary $163,979.00; Reappointment effective August 6, 2008 through August 5, 2010

 page 53
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #17 cont’d
MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WITH NO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES
Alahdab, Mohammad, M.D.
Critical Care
Ancillary Physician
From Account # 110; Grade J-1; Budget # 8973410; Position ID # 9522015; Annual Salary
$57,615.00; to Account # 133; Grade ZZ;
Budget # 8910500; Position ID # 0289153;
Annual Salary $5,525.00
Pulvirenti, Joseph, M.D.
Medicine/Infectious Disease
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8912043; Position ID # 9518776; Annual Salary
$242,886.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8912043; Position ID # 9518776;
Annual Salary $246,385.00
Saffold, Carol, M.D.
Obstetrics/Gynecology
Active Physician
From Account # 133; Grade ZZ;
Budget # 8910506; Position ID # 0289151; Annual Salary
$26,280.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-11; Step 03; Budget # 8910509; Position ID #
0800449; Annual Salary $233,428.00
Wakim, Pierre,D.O.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8910506; Position ID # 9918810; Annual Salary
$304,328.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8910506; Position ID # 9918810;
Annual Salary $336,000.00

COOPERATIVE EDUCATIONAL MASTER AGREEMENT PROGRAM ADDENDUM
ITEM #18
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 2, 2008 from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to renew the program addendum to the Cooperative
Educational Master Agreement with Midwestern University, Downers Grove, Illinois. The program
provides for the continued assignment of resident physicians in the current Midwestern University
Residency Program in Emergency Medicine. The program addendum also describes the program
objectives supervision requirements for the students and residents assigned to Provident Hospital of Cook
County.
The goal of the program is to continue to provide balanced comprehensive training for residents and
students from the University and to maintain quality patient care at Provident Hospital of Cook County.
Pursuant to this agreement, Midwestern University will provide nine (9.4) full time residents from the
Emergency Medicine Program, to provide continuous coverage throughout the agreement period and
allow students to gain training and education in Emergency Medicine.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $793,255.00 (FY 2008 - $330,522.92; and FY 2009 - $462,732.08). Contract
period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009. (891-272 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2008 and future year funds.

 page 54
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #19
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN VOTED "NO"
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $136,503.01, Contract No. 06-53-418
Rebid/Revised with Aramark Healthcare Support Services, Inc., Downers Grove, Illinois, for the food
service program.
Board approved amount 03-20-07:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$6,177,048.00
136,503.01
$6,313,551.01

Per contract specifications this increase is required to allow the contractor to provide quality
food and services according to the consumer price index. The expiration date of the current
contract is April 7, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $136,503.01. (891-223 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #20
WITHDRAWN
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $220,380.12 to Nighthawk Radiology Services, Coeur
d’Alene, Idaho, for tele-radiology services for review, analysis and diagnosis of patient radiographic
films.
Reason:

The contractor provided 24 hour service coverage to assist hospital physicians to meet patient
demand. The service was performed pending the bid, evaluation and award of the annual
Request for Proposal (RFP) for this service.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $220,380.12. (891-272 Account).
JOINT CONFERENCE COMMITTEE MINUTES
ITEM #21
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 21, 2008 from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
Submitting herewith the Provident Hospital of Cook County Joint Conference Committee report for the
meeting of April 2, 2008.

 page 55
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #22
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account for Provident Hospital of Cook
County at Bank of America for the Commercial Checking Account.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on the
checking and savings account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Bank of
America, for the following purpose, be updated for the Commercial Checking Account.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those person who are authorized to
sign checks on the checking and/or savings account and that the signatures of at least two (2) of these
shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3. 2.
4. 3.
5. 4.

David R. Small, F.A.C.H.E.
John Cookinham
Sidney A. Thomas
Dorothy M. Loving
Percy C. Moss III

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore be deleted as signatoryies:
1.
2.

Marc W. Ewell
John Cookinham

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to wire or otherwise transfer funds from the Provident Hospital of Cook County account to other County
of Cook bank accounts:
1.
John Cookinham
2. 1. Sidney A. Thomas
3. 2. Dorothy M. Loving
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking account of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said checking or savings account for deposit
with the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *

 page 56
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #23
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account for Provident Hospital of Cook
County at Shore Bank for the Miscellaneous Refund Account.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on the
checking and savings account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Shore Bank, for
the following purposes, be updated for the Miscellaneous Refund Account.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on the checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of these
shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3. 2.
4. 3.
5. 4.

David R. Small, F.A.C.H.E.
John Cookinham
Sidney A. Thomas
Dorothy M. Loving
Percy C. Moss III

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore be deleted as signatoryies:
1.
2.

Marc W. Ewell
John Cookinham

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking account of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said checking or savings account for deposit
with the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *

 page 57
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #24
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of the following Resolution to update the bank account for Provident Hospital of
Cook County at Shore Bank for the Petty Cash Account.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on the
checking and savings account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Shore Bank, for
the following purposes, be updated for the Petty Cash Account.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3. 2.
4. 3.
5. 4.

David R. Small, F.A.C.H.E.
John Cookinham
Sidney A. Thomas
Dorothy M. Loving
Percy C. Moss III

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore be deleted as signatoryies:
1.
2.

Marc W. Ewell
John Cookinham

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking account of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said checking or savings account for deposit
with the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *

 page 58
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #25
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of the following Resolution to update the bank account for Provident Hospital of
Cook County at Shore Bank for the Patient Refund Account.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on the
checking and savings account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Shore Bank, for
the following purposes, be updated for the Patient Refund Account.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on the checking and/or savings account and that the signatures of at least two (2) of these
shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3. 2.
4. 3.
5. 4.

David R. Small, F.A.C.H.E.
John Cookinham
Sidney A. Thomas
Dorothy M. Loving
Percy C. Moss III

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore be deleted as signatoryies:
1.
2.

Marc W. Ewell
John Cookinham

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking account of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said checking or savings account for deposit
with the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.

 page 59
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #26
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments, medical staff appointments to be
amended from provisional to full status, medical staff change with no change in clinical privileges, mid
level practitioners reappointments, mid level practitioners collaborative agreement, mid level practitioners
collaborative agreement with prescriptive authority and mid level practitioners annual supervision
reviews presented have been professionally reviewed and recommended for the status shown. The Board
of Commissioners will be notified confidentially when there are physicians herein who have any
malpractice claims or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously been presented
to the Board of Commissioners. Additional information concerning such matters will be available on a
confidential basis through the Secretary of the Board.
MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Ansari, Najamul H., M.D.
Medicine/Adult Cardiology
Appointment effective June 17, 2008
through June 16, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Arlandson, Mary E., D.O.
Obstetrics/Gynecology
Appointment effective June 17, 2008
through June 16, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Galang, Maria Therese S., D.M.D. Surgery/Oral & Maxillofacial
Consulting Physician
Annual Salary No fiscal impact;
Appointment effective June 17, 2008 through June 16, 2010
Gueret, Renaud, M.D.
Medicine/Pulmonary Critical Care
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 04; Budget # 8970184;
Position ID #
0800709;
Annual Salary $160,964.00; Appointment effective September 1, 2008; through August 30, 2010
Peddinti, Radhika R., M.D.
Pediatric Hematology/Oncology
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 01; Budget # 8970226;
Annual Salary $139,871.00; Appointment effective June 17, 2008
Saffold, Carol W., M.D.
Obstetrics/Gynecology
Annual Salary No fiscal impact; Appointment effective

Active Physician
Position ID # 9522748;
through June 16, 2010

Active Physician
June 17, 2008 through June 16, 2010

MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Department of Anesthesiology
Stojilijkovic, Ljuba, M.D.
Anesthesiology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-11; Step 05; Budget # 8970273;
Position ID # 9523138;
Annual Salary $243,996.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Emergency Medicine
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Lewis, Trevor, M.D.
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970285;
Position ID # 9523328;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

 page 60
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Department of Medicine
Acob, Christine, M.D.
Hospital Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8970162;
Position ID # 9521907;
Annual Salary $160,764.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Nephrology/Hypertension
Consulting Physician
Arruda, Jose Antonio, M.D.
Account # 133; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8970166;
Position ID #
9932534; Annual Salary
$14,878.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Bressler, Joy, M.D.
General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8970162;
Position ID # 9932513;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Brown, Calvin, M.D.
Rheumatology
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Charles, Lesley, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Dorman, James, M.D.
Neurology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8970168;
Position ID # 9521980;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Escalona, Yolanda, D.O.

Medicine/Ambulatory &
Active Physician
Community Health Network
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8930418;
Position ID # 0700089;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Fogelfeld, Leon, M.D.
Endocrinology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970165;
Position ID # 0400265;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Hart, Peter, M.D.
Nephrology/Hypertension
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8970166;
Position ID # 9521896;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Herrera, Patricia, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 04; Budget # 8970176;
Position ID # 0589130;
Annual Salary $160,964.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Imran, Muhammed, M.D.
General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 02; Budget # 8970162;
Position ID # 0500362;
Annual Salary $146,694.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Jacobs, Elizabeth, M.D.
General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-7;
Step 05; Budget # 8970162;
Position ID # 9521959;
Annual Salary $182,191.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Kendrick, Sabrina, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8941201;
Position ID # 0289370;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

 page 61
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Kumapley, Rudolf, M.D.
General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8972332;
Position ID # 9621875;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Lash, James, M.D.
Nephrology/Hypertension
Service Physician
Account # 133; Grade ZZ;
Budget # 8970166; Position ID # 0100120; Annual Salary
$29,755.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Lucas, Brian, M.D.
General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-7;
Step 05; Budget # 8972332;
Position ID # 9521851;
Annual Salary $182,191.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
McAuley, James, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Nerad, Judith Lucille, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Active Physician
Account # 133; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8941201; Position ID #
9932337; Annual Salary
$47,608.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Rahim, Amina, M.D.
General Medicine
Service Physician
Annual Salary No fiscal impact; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008 through June 19, 2010
Rubin, Rachel, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Reappointment effective June 17, 2008
through June 16, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Saksena, Franklin, M.D.
Adult Cardiology
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Schiff, Gordon, M.D.
General Medicine
Reappointment effective July 12, 2008
through July 11, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Schwartz, David, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-11; Step 03; Budget # 8970182;
Position ID # 9522139;
Annual Salary $222,104.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology
Keith, Louis, M.D.
Gynecology
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Swift, Eddie, M.D.
Gynecology
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Pediatrics
Agrawal, Vishwanath, M.D.
Pediatrics/Neonatology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-7;
Step 05; Budget # 8970225;
Position ID # 9522736;
Annual Salary $182,191.00; Reappointment effective June 17, 2008
through June 16, 2010
Bell, Margo, M.D.
Pediatrics/Juvenile Detention Center
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-7;
Step 03; Budget # 5680501;
Position ID # 0176817;
Annual Salary $165,942.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

 page 62
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Giordano, Lisa, M.D.
Pediatric Hematology/Oncology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6;
Step 05; Budget # 8970226;
Position ID # 9522749;
Annual Salary $168,488.00; Reappointment effective August 1, 2008 through July 31, 2010
Hayden, William, M.D.
Pediatric Critical Care
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Psychiatry
Cavanaugh, James, M.D.

Cermak Health Services of Cook
County/Psychiatry
Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Radiology
Adeniji, Adejimi, M.D.
Pediatric Radiology
Voluntary Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970211; Position ID # 9522566; Annual Salary
$263,792.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Erickson, Paul, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970210; Position ID # 9522558; Annual Salary
$269,188.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Surgery
Chunprapaph, Boonemee, M.D.
Surgery/Orthopedics
Active Physician
Account # 155; Grade K-5;
Step 05; Budget # 8970247;
Position ID # 9932479;
Annual Salary $107,492.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
Department of Trauma
Bokhari, Faran, M.D.
Trauma/Trauma Intensive Care
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970296; Position ID # 9523464; Annual Salary
$286,065.00; Reappointment effective June 20, 2008
through June 19, 2010
MEDICAL STAFF APPOINTMENTS TO BE AMENDED
FROM PROVISIONAL TO FULL STATUS
Name

Department

Status

Agarwal, Ghanshyam, M.D.
Pediatrics/Neonatology
Active Physician
Date on staff October 16, 2007;
Appointment effective June 17, 2008
Bauerfeld, Christian, M.D.
Pediatrics/Pediatric Critical Care
Voluntary Physician
Date on staff September 18, 2007;
Appointment effective June 17, 2008
MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WITH NO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES
Agarwala, Rita, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970213; Position ID # 9522611; Annual Salary
$250,408.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970213; Position ID # 9522611;
Annual Salary $275,000.00

 page 63
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Aks, Steven, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9523329;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970285; Position ID #
9523329; Annual Salary $260,139.00
Ansari, Sobia, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Account # 133; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8970285;
$28,610.00

Voluntary to Service Physician
Position ID # 9932617;
Annual Salary

Apushkin, Michael, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970215; Position ID # 9522628; Annual Salary
$250,408.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970215; Position ID # 9522628;
Annual Salary $275,000.00
Attar, Bashar, M.D.
Medicine/Gastroenterology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970275; Position ID # 9523143; Annual Salary
$280,668.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970275; Position ID # 9523143;
Annual Salary $300,000.00
Bailitz, John, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-9; Step 05; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9523311;
Annual Salary $209,668.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 04; Budget # 8970285;
Position ID # 9523328; Annual Salary $213,388.00
Boykin, Tracy, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Account # 133; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8970285;
$1,145.00

Voluntary to Service Physician
Position ID # 9932572;
Annual Salary

Bugeag, Ionut, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 9519987; Annual Salary
$249,393.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 9519987;
Annual Salary $275,000.00
Caluser, Calin, M.D.
Radiology/Special Procedures
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 0300174; Annual Salary
$298,923.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 0300174;
Annual Salary $305,000.00
Egiebor, Osbert, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970219; Position ID # 9622655; Annual Salary
$269,189.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970219; Position ID # 9622655;
Annual Salary $285,000.00
Fogelfeld, Leon, M.D.
Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970165; Position ID # 0400265;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-11; Step 04; Budget # 8970165;
Position ID # 0400265; Annual Salary $233,066.00
Gilkey, Susan, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970209; Position ID # 9522505; Annual Salary
$269,191.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970209; Position ID # 9522505;
Annual Salary $285,000.00

 page 64
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Harper, Terry, M.D.
Pathology
Account # 155; Grade ZZ; Budget #
$29,755.00
Harter, David, M.D.
Account # 133; Grade ZZ;
$12,761.00

8970184;

Consulting Physician
Position ID # 9933862;
Annual Salary

Emergency Medicine
Active to Service Physician
Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9932567;
Annual Salary

Imran, Ayesha, M.D.
Medicine/General Medicine
Active Physician
Account # 110; Grade K-6; Step 02; Budget # 8970162; Position ID # 9932603; Annual Salary
$146,694.00
Kay, Daniel, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970208; Position ID # 0300232; Annual Salary
$298,921.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970208; Position ID # 0300232;
Annual Salary $305,000.00
Keen, John, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 9920111; Annual Salary
$250,408.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 9920111;
Annual Salary $275,000.00
Kelekar, Anita, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970212; Position ID # 9522582;
Annual Salary $269,190.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970212;
Position ID # 9522582; Annual Salary $285,000.00
Kelly, Michael, M.D.
Medicine/Neurology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-8; Step 05; Budget # 8970168; Position ID # 9521976;
Annual Salary $195,908.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-11; Step 02; Budget # 8970168;
Position ID # 9521976; Annual Salary $212,224.00
Larson, John, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514;
Annual Salary
$249,393.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 9519988;
Annual Salary $275,000.00
Lewis, Trevor, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9523328;
Annual Salary $223,419.00 to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970285; Position ID #
9523326; Annual Salary $260,139.00
Levine, David, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9523307; Annual Salary
$257,557.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9523307;
Annual Salary $260,139.00
Pisaneschi, Mark, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 0300177; Annual Salary
$298,920.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8972514; Position ID # 0300177;
Annual Salary $305,000.00

 page 65
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Sansi, Pratiba, M.D.
Radiology/Nuclear Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 05; Budget # 8970214; Position ID # 9522623;
Annual Salary $223,419.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970214; Position ID #
9522623; Annual Salary $240,000.00
Shor, Merrick, M.D.
Radiology/Special Procedures
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970213; Position ID # 0300235; Annual Salary
$298,925.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970213; Position ID # 0300235;
Annual Salary $305,000.00
Sobti, Pamela, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970209; Position ID # 9522652; Annual Salary
$269,140.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970209; Position ID # 9522652;
Annual Salary $285,000.00
Tailor, Kallolini, M.D.
Radiology
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970218; Position ID # 9522653; Annual Salary
$250,408.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970218; Position ID # 9522653;
Annual Salary $275,000.00
Toerne, Ted,
Emergency Medicine
Account # 133; Grade ZZ; Budget # 8970285;
$9,499.00

Voluntary to Service Physician
Position ID # 0189738;
Annual Salary

Weber, Joseph, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-9; Step 05; Budget # 8970285; Position ID # 9823323;
Annual Salary $209,668.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-10; Step 04; Budget # 8970162;
Position ID # 9521901; Annual Salary $213,389.00
Weinstein, Robert, M.D.
Medicine/Infectious Diseases
Active Physician
From Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970176; Position ID # 9522092; Annual Salary
$291,713.00; to Account # 110; Grade K-12; Budget # 8970176; Position ID # 9522092;
Annual Salary $320,000.00
MID LEVEL PRACTITIONERS REAPPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Status

Martin, Annie M., C.N.P.

Family Practice

Nurse Practitioner

Mathew, Lizamma, C.N.P.

Medicine

Nurse Practitioner

Miller, Florence L., C.N.S.

Pediatrics

Clinical Nurse Specialist

MID LEVEL PRACTITIONERS COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT
Miller, Florence L., C.N.S.

Pediatrics

Clinical Nurse Specialist

MID LEVEL PRACTITIONERS
COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT WITH PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY
Martin, Annie M., C.N.P.

Family Practice

Nurse Practitioner

Mathew, Lizamma, C.N.P.

Medicine

Nurse Practitioner

 page 66
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
MID LEVEL PRACTITIONERS ANNUAL SUPERVISION REVIEWS
Bagge, Marla J., C.N.M.

Obstetrics/Gynecology

Certified Nurse Midwife

Villaluna, Guia, P.A.-C.

Obstetrics/Gynecology

Physician Assistant

CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #27
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for three (3) months, Contract No. 05-85-63
with M3 Medical Management Services, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois, for transcription services for the
Department of Medical Records.
Reason:

This request will allow sufficient time for the rebid, award and implementation of the new
contract for which bids are scheduled to be opened on June 25, 2008. Approximately
$121,349.78 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current contract is June 30,
2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: July 1, 2008 through September 30, 2008.

 page 67
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR
REPORT
ITEM #28
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 22, 2008 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting herewith a copy of the “Status of Audit Recommendations” report as of May 2008 with
updates for the Animal Control Department.

 page 68
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REPORT
ITEM #29
DEFERRED TO THE JULY 1, 2008 BOARD MEETING
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 22, 2008 from
JARESE A. WILSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
Pursuant to the Cook County Board Resolution for Fiscal Year 2008, Section 29, the Department of
Budget and Management Services is submitting a report which shows all federal and state funds received
or administered by the County for the time period October 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008.
This report shall list the amounts disbursed and purposes for which disbursements were made, and shall
indicate the Grantor of the funds, purpose, service area(s) and number of positions supported.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
BID OPENING - COMMISSIONER SIMS
ITEM #30
REFERRED TO RESPECTIVE DEPARTMENTS FOR REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION
Submitting for your consideration, bids which were opened under her supervision on Wednesday, June
11, 2008 at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago, Illinois.

CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #31
APPROVED AS AMENDED (CONTRACT NO. 08-41-198 WITH MAXIM HEALTHCARE
SERVICES, INC. WAS WITHDRAWN).
COMMISSIONER DALEY VOTED “NO” ON CONTRACT NO. 08-85-124 WITH PHOENIX
BUSINESS SOLUTIONS, LLC.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED “NO” ON CONTRACT 08-85-124 WITH PHOENIX
BUSINESS SOLUTIONS, LLC.

Transmitting contracts and bonds executed by the contractors for approval and execution as requested by
the Purchasing Agent.

 page 69
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
RESOLUTION
ITEM #32
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 10, 2008 from
TAKASHI REINBOLD, Director, Department of Revenue
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account that the Department of
Revenue currently has with Amalgamated Bank of Chicago. Amalgamated Bank provides a lockbox
operation for the collections of the Cook County Use Tax.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signers on the account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Use Tax NOW account at Amalgamated Bank be
updated.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks, wire or otherwise transfer funds from the depository account to the Office of the Cook
County Treasurer/Collector approved investment vehicles:
1. Donna L. Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer
2. John R. Morales, Acting Cook County Comptroller
3. Takashi Reinbold, Director, Department of Revenue
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following names as signers on the account shall be deleted:
1. Joseph M. Fratto, Cook County Comptroller
2. Barbara Bruno, Director, Department of Revenue
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Auditor be directed to audit the NOW account of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said NOW account for deposit with the Cook
County Treasurer/Collector shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.

 page 70
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #33
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
MARK KILGALLON, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the annual paper contract for
the Print Shop.
Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009. (011-355 Account). Requisition No.
80110049.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
ITEM #34
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 16, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for sprinkler system installation at Camp Reinberg,
1680 North Quentin Road, Palatine, Illinois in Palatine Township, County Board District #14.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

072296
$5,370.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $5,370.00.
* * * * *
ITEM #35
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 16, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Little Red School House Nature Center at
9800 Willow Springs Road, Willow Springs, Illinois in Palos Township, County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

080557
$8,261.95

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $8,261.95.
* * * * *

 page 71
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #36
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 16, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for a demolition permit for six (6) concrete toboggan
chutes at Swallow Cliff Toboggan Slides, 9600 West Route 83, Palos Park, Illinois in Palos Township,
County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

080594
$906.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $906.00.
* * * * *
ITEM #37
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 16, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for a demolition permit for two (2) steel toboggan
chutes at Jensen Toboggan Slides, 6100 West Devon Avenue, Chicago, Illinois in Niles Township,
County Board District #9.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

080626
$852.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $852.50.
100% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
100% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2008 TO PRESENT:
* * * * *

$15,390.45
$239,170.58

 page 72
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #38
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 16, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center’s
Building 110, 6th floor renovation at 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois in Proviso Township,
County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (90%):
Amount Due (10%):

080498
$2,898.00
$2,608.20
$289.80

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent (10%) of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,608.20.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FY 2008 TO PRESENT:

$2,608.20
$8,389.36

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS
ITEM #39
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Submitting for your approval TWO (2) AGREEMENT AMENDMENT RESOLUTIONS:
1. Amendment to an Agreement between the County of Cook and the Soo Line Railroad Company
Grade Crossing Reconstruction Work
Techny Road (County Highway A76) at the Soo Line Railroad (Shermer Road to the west fork of the
north branch of the Chicago River)
in the Village of Northbrook in County Board Districts #14
Section: 99-A7622-03-FP
Fiscal Impact: $28,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
2. Amendment to an Individual Project Agreement between the County of Cook and the City of Chicago
2007 Arterial Street Resurfacing Program
Montrose Avenue,
Austin Avenue to Central Avenue
Section: 07-B1526-04-RS
Centerline Mileage: 0.46 miles;
Pratt Avenue,
Kedzie Avenue to California Avenue
Section: 07-A8830-02-RS
Centerline Mileage: 0.51 miles; and
Central Avenue,
Farragut Avenue to Elston Avenue
Section: 07-W3935-04-RS
Centerline Mileage: 0.59 miles
in the City of Chicago in County Board Districts #9, 12 and 13
Fiscal Impact: $239,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)

 page 73
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
AGREEMENTS
ITEM #40
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval THREE (3) AGREEMENT RESOLUTIONS:
1. Highway Authority Agreement along with a Supplemental Agreement
ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
1530 Schaumburg Road (CH A66) at Springinsguth Road
in the Village of Schaumburg in County Board District #15
Fiscal Impact: None
2. Highway Authority Agreement along with a Supplemental Agreement
ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
810 Roselle Road (CH V60) at Bode Road
in the Village of Hoffman Estates in County Board District #15
Fiscal Impact: None
3. Highway Authority Agreement along with a Supplemental Agreement
ExxonMobil Oil Corporation
1 West Golf Road at Roselle Road (CH V60)
in the Village of Hoffman Estates in County Board District #15
Fiscal Impact: None
MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION
ITEM #41
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Maintenance Resolution
Electrical and Mechanical Maintenance for Calendar Year 2009
Various locations
Section: 09-8EMIM-37-GM
Fiscal Impact: $3,850,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION RESOLUTION
ITEM #42
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval TWO (2) COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL
RESOLUTIONS:
1. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
131st Street,
Wolf Road to 96th Avenue
in the Village of Palos Park, unincorporated Palos and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County in
County Board District #17
Section: 04-B5121-02-RS
Final Cost: $999,581.76
2. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Traffic Signal Modernization (19 locations)
in various Villages of Northern Cook County in County Board Districts #14, 15 and 17
Section: 02-TSCMC-03-TL
Final Cost: $1,057,546.68

 page 74
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #43
APPROVED
Submitting Contracts and Bonds properly executed by the Contractors.

CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
ITEM #44
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS & BRIDGES
Submitting six (6) changes in plans and extra work:
1. Section: 07-B6528-01-RS. Flossmoor Road, Cicero Avenue to Kedzie Avenue in the City of
Country Club Hills and the Village of Flossmoor in County Board District #5. Adjustment of
quantities and new items. $83,765.00 (Deduction).
#294590
2. Section: 04-W7331-02-RS. Mount Prospect Road, North Avenue to Grand Avenue in the Cities of
Elmhurst and Northlake in County Board District #17. Adjustment of quantities and new items.
$61,044.46 (Addition).
#294591
3. Section: 06-25147-90-RS. Palatine Township (018T147) - 2006 Resurfacing Project in County
Board District #14. Final adjustment of quantities. $15,637.00 (Deduction).
#294592
4. Section: 03-A5925-02-RS. Lake Avenue, Edens Expressway to Green Bay Road in the Village of
Wilmette in County Board District #13. Final adjustment of quantities. $52,134.70 (Deduction).
#294593
5. Section: 98-W5812-03-PV. Cottage Grove Avenue, Lincoln Avenue to 138th Street in the Village of
Dolton in County Board Districts #5 and 6. Adjustment of quantities and new items. $351,858.24
(Deduction).
#294594
6. Section: 06-B5925-03-RP. 167th Street, Harlem Avenue to Cicero Avenue in the City of Oak Forest
and the Village of Tinley Park in County Board District #17. Adjustment of quantities and a new
item. $79,200.00 (Addition).

#294595

REPORT
ITEM #45
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS & BRIDGES #294596
Submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending May 31, 2008.

 page 75
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER
CONTRACT
ITEM #46
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
DR. NANCY L. JONES, Chief Medical Examiner
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with FujiFilm Medical Systems,
USA, Roselle, Illinois, for the purchase of Fuji XG5000 digital radiology equipment.
Reason:

This is the only equipment that will allow the Medical Examiner to rapidly recover and
process multiple remains. This equipment will be integrated into daily procedures for the
Medical Examiner enabling the office to operate in a more efficient manner. It will eliminate
the need for x-ray film and developing solutions for the office. This equipment will be funded
through the Homeland Security grant.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $214,657.50. One time purchase. (769-579
Account). Requisition No. 87698003.
The Purchasing Agent concurs.

CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #47
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DR. NANCY L. JONES, Chief Medical Examiner
by
DAVID W. FOLEY, Executive Director, Office of the Medical Examiner
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $8,696.56 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 05-73-462 Rebid with Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Dublin, Ohio,
for testing of post mortem samples.
Board approved amount 07-12-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$69,872.50
8,696.56
$78,569.06

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the bid, evaluation, award and
implementation of the new contract. The expiration date of the current contract is July 11,
2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $8,696.56. Contract extension: July 12, 2008 through October 11, 2008. (259278 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

 page 76
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
CONTRACT
ITEM #48
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #294597
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is a request for authorization to enter into a professional services
contract with Taylor Made Design, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for design and construction administration
services for the New Children’s Advocacy Rooms at the Skokie and Bridgeview Courthouses, the new
public health clinic at the Skokie Courthouse and renovation of the public health clinic at the Markham
Courthouse. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This project provides for two (2) new children’s advocacy rooms at the Skokie and
Bridgeview Courthouses. These rooms will provide a safe environment for children whose
parents are conducting court business. This project will also provide for a new public health
clinic at the Skokie Courthouse and provide for renovation to the public health clinic
currently at the Markham Courthouse.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $169,576.00. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
CHANGE ORDERS
ITEM #49
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #294598
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 19, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 1 in the amount of $30,400.00 to the contract
with Divane Brothers Electric Company, Franklin Park, Illinois, contractor for the Countywide Fire and
Life Safety System Upgrades Package #7 Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body
approve this request.
Reason:

This change order provides for furnishing and installing nineteen (19) fire alarm devices at
the Maywood Courthouse and three (3) smoke detectors and visual strobes at Jefferson,
Whitcomb and the Sheriff’s building. These changes were required by the Village of
Maywood as part of the permit review process.
No additional contract time is required.
Contract No. 07-53-231
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$1,587,000.00
0.00
30,400.00
$1,617,400.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $30,400.00. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
* * * * *

 page 77
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY continued
CHANGE ORDERS continued
ITEM #50
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #294599
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 2 in the amount of $21,400.00 to the contract
with Oppidan, Inc., Joint Venture, Chicago, Illinois, for the Countywide ADA Compliance Project-Phase
II. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order provides for construction administration at the Department of Corrections
and Criminal Courts Building for services that include resolution of punch-list items,
change-orders and additional services.
Contract No. 01-41-512
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$824,000.00
145,000.00
$969,000.00
21,400.00
$990,400.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $21,400.00. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.

* * * * *
ITEM #51
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #294600
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 2, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 3 in the amount of $31,068.00 to the
contract with Divane Brothers Electric Company, Franklin Park, Illinois, contractor for the Cook County
Department of Corrections Division XI-Security Renovation Project. It is respectfully requested that this
Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order provides for the furnishing and installation of an air conditioning system
for the Security Equipment Room. The heat output from the security equipment requires
additional cooling in order to operate properly.
No additional contract time is required.
Contract No. 05-53-334 Rebid
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$4,792,400.00
40,205.00
31,068.00
$4,863,673.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $31,068.00. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.

 page 78
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS
ITEM #52
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as Grantor and
Magellan Pipeline Company LP, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, approved by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Magellan Pipeline Company, LP
Ten (10) Years; July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2017
$3,375.00 per year, plus CPI increase (if any)

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval recommended.
* * * * *
ITEM #53
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as Grantor and
West Shore Pipeline Company, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, approved by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
West Shore Pipeline Company
Ten (10) Years; July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2017
$3,375.00 per year, plus CPI increase (if any)

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval recommended.
* * * * *

 page 79
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #54
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as Grantor and
Kinder Morgan Operating LP, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, approved by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Kinder Morgan Operating LP
Ten (10) Years; July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2017
$3,375.00 per year, plus CPI increase (if any)

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval recommended.
* * * * *
ITEM #55
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as Grantor and
Praxair Inc., as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the authority to apply for
permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and remove its facilities located
in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, approved by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Praxair, Inc.
Ten (10) Years; July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2017
$3,375.00 per year, plus CPI increase (if any)

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval recommended.
* * * * *

 page 80
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #56
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as Grantor and
TE Products Pipeline Company, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, approved by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
TE Products Pipeline Company
Ten (10) Years; July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2017
$3,375.00 per year, plus CPI increase (if any)

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval recommended.

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #57
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith a Resolution for your consideration and approval. The purpose of this Resolution
is: Appropriation Adjustments to Accounts 490-115 and 499-115 to establish prevailing wage rates for
positions specified in the Resolution.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $41,820.00.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on February 29, 2008 adopted the Annual
Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill creates Accounts 490-115 and 499-115 for Appropriation
Adjustments for the Corporate and Public Safety Funds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the wages and salaries of the following positions be
fixed as follows:

 page 81
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #57 cont’d

Job Code

Hourly
Wage Rate

Job Classification

Effective
Date

ACCOUNT 490-115
2372
2373
2376

Road Equipment Operator
Road Equipment Operator (MM)
Road Equipment Operator (MMF)

41.45
45.00
46.00

6-1-08
6-1-08
6-1-08

Road Equipment Operator

41.45

6-1-08

ACCOUNT 499-115
2372

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that $40,077.00 from Account 490-115 and $1,743.00 from Account
499-115 be provided for these employees.
* * * * *
ITEM #58
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Wage Resolution covering the
Metropolitan Alliance of Police - Chapter 270 representing Stroger Hospital of Cook County Sergeants
for your consideration and approval at the June 17, 2008 Board Meeting.
Fiscal Year 2005 (1%):
Fiscal Year 2006 (3%):
Fiscal Year 2007 (4%):
Fiscal Year 2008 (4.75%):
Bonus:
Total Estimated Cost:

$ 4,337.00
$ 8,805.00
$12,495.00
$15,975.00
$ 4,000.00
$45,612.00

Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement, general salary increases and adjustments for the period
December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008, have been negotiated between the County of Cook and
the following Collective Bargaining Union:
Metropolitan Alliance of Police – Chapter 270 (Stroger Hospital of Cook County Sergeants)
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Collective Bargaining Agreement and general
salary increases and adjustments be approved by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
* * * * *

 page 82
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #59
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith is an Interest Arbitration decision concerning the Illinois Fraternal Order of Police
Labor Council representing Stroger Hospital of Cook County Security Officers for your consideration and
approval.
Fiscal Year 2005 (1%):
Fiscal Year 2006 (3%):
Fiscal Year 2007 (4%):
Fiscal Year 2008 (4.75%):
Bonus:
Total Estimated Cost:

$ 16,879.00
$ 34,267.00
$ 48,627.00
$ 62,171.00
$ 20,000.00
$181,944.00

Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, and the Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council representing
Stroger Hospital of Cook County Security Officers have entered into Compulsory Interest Arbitration
under Section 14 of the Illinois Public Relations Act; and
WHEREAS, an Interest Arbitration Award has been issued concerning unresolved salary and other
contract issues covering the period December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this award be submitted for your approval by the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
* * * * *
ITEM #60
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith a Resolution for your consideration and approval. The purpose of this Resolution is
for Appropriation Adjustments to Accounts 499-115 and 899-115 to establish prevailing wage rates for
positions specified in the Resolution.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $66,443.00.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

 page 83
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #60 cont’d
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on February 29, 2008 adopted the Annual
Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill creates Account 499-115 and 899-115 for Appropriation
Adjustments for the Corporate and Public Safety and Health Funds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the wages and salaries of the following positions be
fixed as follows:

Job Code

Hourly
Wage Rate

Job Classification

Effective
Date

ACCOUNT 499-115
2336
2335
2334
2343
2344
2345

Architectural Iron Worker
Architectural Iron Worker Foreman
Master Locksmith
Refrigerator Man
Steamfitter
Steamfitter Foreman

39.05
42.30
39.05
42.05
42.05
45.05

6-1-08
6-1-08
6-1-08
6-1-08
6-1-08
6-1-08

Steamfitter

42.05

6-1-08

ACCOUNT 899-115
2344

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that $48,208.00 from Account 499-115 and $18,235.00 from Account
899-115 be provided for these employees.
* * * * *
ITEM #61
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith is a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Wage Resolution covering American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; representing Correctional Lieutenants for your
consideration and approval at the June 17, 2008 Board Meeting.
Fiscal Year 2006 (4%):
Fiscal Year 2007 (4%):
Fiscal Year 2008 (6.75%):
Fiscal Year 2009 (2%):
Bonus:
Total Estimated Cost:

$ 223,637.00
$ 321,981.00
$ 417,469.00
$ 258,672.00
$ 92,000.00
$1,313,759.00

Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

 page 84
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #61 cont’d
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement, general salary increases and adjustments for the period
December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008, have been negotiated between the County of Cook and
the following Collective Bargaining Union:
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees; representing Correctional Lieutenants
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Collective Bargaining Agreement and general
salary increases and adjustments be approved by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.

 page 85
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ASSESSOR
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #62
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #294601, AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
JAMES M. HOULIHAN, Cook County Assessor
I am forwarding the classification ordinance changes for submission for the agenda for the June 17, 2008
Cook County Board of Commissioner’s meeting. It is our hope that these changes in classification levels
for both residential and commercial properties will provide additional clarity for taxpayers regarding the
assessment process.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
County Commissioners
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II,
Division 2 Sec. 74-64 is hereby amended, as follows:
DIVISION 2. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR ASSESSMENT
Sec. 74-64. Market value percentages.
The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Appeals Review shall review, assessments on real
estate in the various classes at the following percentages of market value:
(1) Class 1: 22 10 percent.
(2) Class 2: 16 10 percent.
(3) Class 3: 26 24 16 percent, in tax year 2006 2009, 22 13 percent in tax year 2007
2010, and 20 10 percent in tax year 2008 2011, and subsequent years.
(4) Class 4: 30 25 percent.
(5) Class 5a: 38 25 percent.
(6) Class 5b: 36 25 percent.
(7) Class 6b: 16 10 percent for first ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal
periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20 percent in
year 12.
(8) Class C: Industrial properties: 16 10 percent for first ten years, 23 15 percent in year
11 and 30 20 percent in year 12; commercial properties: 16 10 percent for first ten years,
23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20 percent in year 12.
(9) Class 7a: 16 10 percent for first ten years, 23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20 percent
in year 12.
(10) Class 7b: 16 10 percent for first ten years, 23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20
percent in year 12.
(11) Class 8: 16 10 percent for first ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal
periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20 percent in
year 12.

 page 86
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ASSESSOR continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #62 cont’d
(12) Class 9: 16 10 percent for an initial ten-year period, renewable upon application for
additional ten-year periods.
(13) Class S: 16 10 percent for the term of the Section 8 contract renewal under the
mark up to market option, as defined herein, and for any additional terms of renewal of
the Section 8 contract under the mark up to market option.
(14) Class L, renewable properties: 16 10 percent for first ten years and for any
subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 23 15 percent in
year 11 and 30 20 percent in year 12; commercial properties: 16 10 percent for first ten
years, 23 15 percent in year 11 and 30 20 percent in year 12.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective for the 2009 tax year.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ITEM #63
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #294602
Transmitting a Communication from
JAMES M. HOULIHAN, Cook County Assessor
I am forwarding this resolution for submission for the agenda for the June 17, 2008 Cook County Board
of Commissioner’s meeting. It is our hope that these changes in classification levels for both residential
and commercial properties will provide additional clarity for taxpayers regarding the assessment process.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION TO AMEND THE COOK COUNTY
REAL PROPERTY ASSESSMENT CLASSIFICATION ORDINANCE
IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF ASSESSMENT LEVELS
WHEREAS, there exists the Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance, Chapter 74, Article II,
Division 2, Sec. 74-60 et al., “Ordinance”, as from time to time amended (amended November 29, 1976;
June 6, 1977; September 19, 1977; May 16, 1978; January 2, 1979; March 3, 1980; September 2, 1980;
October 3, 1983; April 2, 1984; November 18, 1985; May 19, 1986; June 20, 1988; September 5, 1989;
December 18, 1989; March 16, 1992; December 6, 1994; November 19, 1996; May 6, 1997; November
23, 1999; April 18, 2000; September 6, 2001; December 4, 2001; April 9, 2002; July 13, 2004; December
14, 2004; January 18, 2006, November 15, 2006; and May 15, 2007); and
WHEREAS, Section 74-64 of the Ordinance provides that the Assessor shall assess, and the Board of
Appeals shall review, assessments on real estate in various classes at various percentages of market value,
also known as assessment levels, and that there exists seven (7) different assessment levels contained in
such Section 74-64 of the Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Ordinance should be amended in order to recalibrate and reduce the current number of
seven (7) assessment levels in order to bring greater clarity to the current system now used to determine a
property owner’s share of the tax burden; and
WHEREAS, such an amendment to the Ordinance should be effective for tax year 2009 as to all of Cook
County; and

 page 87
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ASSESSOR continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #63 cont’d
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board determines that the Cook County Assessor should undertake an
analysis of the effect such a recalibration and reduction to the number of assessment levels would have on
the assessment process.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that:
Section 1. The above referenced recitals are hereby incorporated into this Resolution.
Section 2. The Cook County Board of Commissioners should amend the Ordinance in order to reduce
the current number of assessment levels now used to calculate the assessed value of real property in Cook
County for real estate tax purposes.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
GRANT AWARD
ITEM #64
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 5, 2008 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $37,800.00 from the Illinois Department
of Human Services through its Partner Abuse Intervention Services Program. Grant funds will be used to
provide court-ordered counseling services for domestic violence offenders.
This grant does not require an application process.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on June 19, 2007 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $36,700.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $37,800.00. Funding period: July 1, 2008 through June
30, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

CONTRACT
ITEM #65
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with the Chicago Bar
Foundation (CBF), Chicago, Illinois, to manage the court’s Guardianship Assistance Desk for Minors.
CBF is recommended as the sole respondent to a Request for Proposal (RFP) process.

 page 88
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE continued
CONTRACT continued
ITEM #65 cont’d
Reason:

The Guardianship Assistance Desk for Minors, located on the tenth floor of the George W.
Dunne Cook County Office Building, provides critical assistance to individuals who represent
themselves in seeking to obtain the guardianship of minors in the Probate Division of the
Circuit Court of Cook County. Service includes assessment of client’s eligibility to seek
guardianship, explanation of court procedures and assistance with completing court required
forms and documents. The Desk has provided assistance to more than 20,000 “pro-se”
guardianship litigants over the past thirteen years. The desk is staffed with court personnel;
off-site legal assistance is provided from attorneys at Chicago Volunteer Legal Services
Foundation (CVLS) which pledges to match the value of the county’s contribution to the
program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $152,169.00 (FY 2008: $23,333.33; FY 2009: $48,417.67; FY 2010:
$56,360.00; and FY 2011: $24,058.00). Contract period: May 1, 2008 through April 30, 2011. (310260 Account). Requisition No. 83100020.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT
CONTRACT
ITEM #66
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Treatment Alternatives for
Safe Communities, Inc. (TASC), Chicago, Illinois, for services for the Adult Drug Treatment Court
Program in the Criminal Division, Circuit Court of Cook County. TASC will provide screening,
assessment, diagnostic services and substance abuse testing. TASC was selected as the sole respondent to
a Request for Qualifications (RFQ).
Reason:

The Criminal Division’s Adult Drug Treatment Court Program offers drug treatment and
social services to certain qualifying high risk substance abusing defendants. The purpose of
the program is to reduce crime by returning former drug offenders back to the community as
self-sufficient, productive citizens. TASC has been providing services to the program since
its inception in 1997.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $168,828.00. Contract period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009. (532-260
Account). Requisition No. 85324038.
Sufficient funds are available in the Adult Probation/Probation Service Fee Fund.

 page 89
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT continued
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #67
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for two (2) months, Contract No. 06-84-327
with Mensik’s Fleet Maintenance, Chicago, Illinois, for automotive maintenance and repair for the Adult
Probation Department.
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the bid, evaluation and award of the new
contract for which bids are scheduled to be opened on June 11, 2008. The expiration date of
the current contract was May 31, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: June 1, 2008 through July 31, 2008.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY
CONTRACT
ITEM #68
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with the Law Bulletin
Publishing Company, Chicago, Illinois, for a three (3) year contract for subscriptions to the Chicago
Daily Law Bulletin and the Chicago Law Journal.
Reason:

These publications are provided to judges and administrative staff. The Law Bulletin
Publishing Company is the only source for these proprietary publications. The subscriptions
will be provided at a fixed cost for the three (3) year contract period.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $309,816.00 (FY 2009 - $103,272.00; FY 2010 - $103,272.00; and FY 2011 $94,666.00). Contract period: December 1, 2008 through November 30, 2011. (300-353 Account).
Requisition No. 83000015.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.

 page 90
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
ITEM #69
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #294603
JOURNAL
(May 20, 2008)
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk presented in printed form a record of the Journal of the Proceedings of
the meeting held on Tuesday, May 20, 2008.

 page 91
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF DEEDS
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #70
DEFERRED TO JULY 1, 2008 BOARD MEETING, AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
EUGENE “GENE” MOORE, Recorder of Deeds
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $589,875.00, Contract No. 06-41-694
with AMCAD, LLC, Herndon, Virginia, for conversion of back file microfilm.
Board approved amount 06-06-06:
Decrease approved 11-20-07:
This increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$1,966,250.00
(589,875.00)
589,875.00
$2,556,125.00 1,966,250.00

The Recorder of Deeds Office wants to correct the amount so as to accurately reflect the
dollar amount. The incorrect language that appeared in the fourth (4th) amendment of
contract should not have resulted in a decrease of $589,875.00. The intention was to
reference the 5th and final payment amount of the contract. The deleted amount of
$589,875.00 must be restored, in order to ensure full implementation of the contract
pursuant to the revised contract agreement.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $589,875.00. (527-579 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the County Recorder Document Storage System Fund.

 page 92
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #71
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of toothbrushes,
toothpaste and razors for inmates.
Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009. (239-330 Account). Requisition No.
82390071.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #72
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of inmate
uniforms (shirts and pants) for males and females.
Contract period: November 1, 2008 through October 31, 2009. (239-320 Account). Requisition No.
82390072.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #73
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of toilet paper and
paper towels for the Department of Corrections and Custodial Department.
Contract period: October 17, 2008 through October 16, 2009.
Requisition Nos. 82159020 and 82390076.

(215-330 and 239-330 Account).

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

 page 93
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN'S JUSTICE SERVICES
CONTRACT ADDENDA
ITEM #74
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
TERRIE McDERMOTT, Executive Director, Department of Women’s Justice Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $7,680.00 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 07-41-299 with Dr. Nancy R. Soro, Oak Park, Illinois, for mental health services
for the Department of Women’s Justice Services.
Board approved amount 04-18-07:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$30,720.00
7,680.00
$38,400.00

The Department of Women’s Justice Services (DWJS) is preparing a Request for Proposal
(RFP) in an effort to consolidate mental health services currently being provided to detainees
in the program. This increase and extension will equalize the end dates for all three (3)
current contracts and allow sufficient time for the review, evaluation and award of a single
contract. The Sheriff’s Department anticipates a new contract will be in place by October 1,
2008. The expiration date of the current contract is June 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $7,680.00. Contract extension: July 1, 2008 through September 30, 2008.
(212-298 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #75
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
TERRIE McDERMOTT, Executive Director, Department of Women’s Justice Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $17,280.00 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 07-41-300 with Dr. Kenya D. Key, Forest Park, Illinois, for mental health services
for the Department of Women’s Justice Services.
Board approved amount 04-18-07:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$69,120.00
17,280.00
$86,400.00

The Department of Women’s Justice Services (DWJS) is preparing a Request for Proposal
(RFP) in an effort to consolidate mental health services currently being provided to detainees
in the program. This increase and extension will equalize the end dates for all three (3)
current contracts and allow sufficient time for the review, evaluation and award of a single
contract. The Sheriff’s Department anticipates a new contract will be in place by October 1,
2008. The expiration date of the current contract is June 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $17,280.00. Contract extension: July 1, 2008 through September 30, 2008.
(212-289 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

 page 94
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of June 17, 2008

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
ITEM #76
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 14, 2008 from
RICHARD A. DEVINE, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
DENNIS MANZKE, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $30,096.00 from the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority (ICJIA) for the Target Abuser Call (TAC) Victim Assistance Program. This
program funds two (2) TAC victim specialists that provide services to victims of domestic violence out of
the Domestic Violence Courthouse.
The match commitment for this program consists of both cash and in-kind contributions. The salary and
fringe benefits of one of the two TAC victim specialists serve as the in-kind match commitment for this
program. The cash match contribution is the remaining fringe benefits of the other TAC victim specialist
not covered by the grant award.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on April 18, 2007 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $60,191.00.
This grant does not require an application process; the funding is automatically renewed.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $36,653.00 [$24,529.00 - (250-110 Account); $6,527.00 - (250-170/179
Accounts); and $5,597.00 – (250-818 Account)]. Grant Award: $30,096.00. Funding period: July 1,
2008 through December 31, 2008.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
PENDING LITIGATION
ITEM #77
REFERRED TO THE LITIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 23, 2008 from
RICHARD A. DEVINE, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. Patricia Colon v. County of Cook, Case No. 06-L-4164
#294604
2. Donahue v. Cook County, Case No. 07-C-4534
#294605
3. Gail Parker v. County of Cook, a/k/a Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Case No. 08-M1-300857
#294606
4. Launcie Walker, as Special Administrator of the Estate of Albert Allen v. County of Cook, et al.,
Case No. 07-C-5552
#294607
* * * * *
The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for Tuesday, July 22 1, 2008.

 