Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice- President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, January 13, 2011

1:00 PM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 1:00
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Kathleen Therese Meany;
Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; and Terrence
J. O'Brien

Absent:

1 - Barbara J. McGowan

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
11-0012

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Terrence J. O’Brien, there will be a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago on Thursday, January
13, 2011 at 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the meeting is to discuss one matter of pending
litigation.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Kathleen Therese
Meany, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

January 13, 2011

Open Discussion
None

Executive Session
A motion was made that an executive session be held by the Committee on Judiciary
to discuss one matter of pending litigation.
A motion was made by Kathleen Therese Meany, seconded by Cynthia M.
Santos, that this Motion be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll
call vote:
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Kathleen Therese
Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos;
Terrence J. O'Brien

Absent:

1-

Barbara J. McGowan

Adjournment
A motion was made by Kathleen Therese Meany, seconded by Cynthia M.
Santos, that this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

7-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Kathleen Therese
Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

Absent:

2-

Barbara J. McGowan; Debra Shore

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this
January 13, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
January 13, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 