STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on June 2, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board;
Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John
F. Brosnan, Sylvia Rios, and Ellen M. Strizak acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD MAY 5, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the May 5, 2009 meeting. Member Coli made a
motion for approval of the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from May 1 through May 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CB-06-045
Janette Watkins/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Case No. S-CA-06-227
Janette Watkins/PACE Heritage Division

Chairman Gallagher called the cases and summarized their background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Hade moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Coli seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CB-07-016
Welch, McGrew, and Widger/American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, Council 31
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by
the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Rios' recommendation. After a discussion of
the merits, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-03-217
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 705/Village of Oak Park
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-06-323
Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters/Rockford Housing Authority
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CB-09-011
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 325/Village of Roscoe
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-UC-09-011
International Union of Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America, Local No. 2261/Stephenson County Circuit Court Clerk
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan dismissed the petition
in Case No. S-UC-09-009, and directed the certification of the petitioned-for title in Case No. S-UC-09011, on February 25, 2009. Chairman Gallagher noted that there was an appeal filed, and further noted
that the Board upheld the dismissal of the petition in Case No. S-UC-09-009 at its May 5, 2009 meeting.
Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the remaining issues presented by the appeal, and recommended
that the Board uphold the Executive Director's decision. After discussion, Member Hade moved to
uphold the Executive Director's decision. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
7.
Case No. S-CA-09-127
Illinois Council of Police/Village of Maywood
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted its background, observing that Executive Director Brosnan
issued a dismissal on May 4, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the
issues presented by the appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the Executive Director's order.
After discussion, Member Washington moved to uphold the Executive Director's order. Member Coli
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher distributed the fiscal report and updated the Board as to the status of legislation that
could affect the agency. The Chair and Members of the Board reviewed and discussed the fiscal report
and certain pieces of legislation. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive
session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of July, 2009.

2

 