POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

County Board Room, County Building

Wednesday, November 5, 2008 10:00 A.M.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool,
Daley, Goslin, Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica,
Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Collins (1)

(Matters referred to Committee are available from the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners)

 POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Wednesday, November 5, 2008, 10:00 A.M.
****************************

COMMISSIONERS
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
ITEM #1
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 28, 2008 from
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
I hereby request to transfer $16,000.00 from (018-350 Account) the Office Supplies Account to (018-260
Account) the Professional and Managerial Services Account.
* * * * *
ITEM #2
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 24, 2008 from
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, County Commissioner
I hereby request to transfer $8,000.00 from (018-350 Account) the Office Supplies Account to (018-890
Account) the Stipend General and Contingent Expenses for the Board of Commissioners Account.

PROPOSED ORDINANCES
ITEM #3
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #297144
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, MIKE QUIGLEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, GREGG GOSLIN and ANTHONY J. PERAICA, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH
A COOK COUNTY CIRCUIT BREAKER PROGRAM
WHEREAS, there is an over reliance on real estate property tax as a means of revenue generation in
Cook County and the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, families in Cook County are overburdened with high real estate property taxes in a time
when national and local economic conditions have deteriorated, and incomes are uncertain; and
WHEREAS, low and moderate income homeowners, as well as homeowners who lose part or all of their
income, can quickly become overburdened by real estate property taxes if levies or home values rapidly
increase and annual assessment adjustments to reflect declining market conditions are not possible; and
WHEREAS, for all homeowners except seniors with very low incomes, real estate property taxes are
unrelated to a property owner’s ability to pay; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Circuit Breaker Program does not adequately address the needs of Cook County
Homeowners; and
WHEREAS, a Cook County Property Tax Circuit Breaker would prevent real estate property taxes from
overloading a family’s budget by limiting the real estate property tax to five percent (5%) of a family’s
income up to a maximum benefit of $700; and

 page 3
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
WHEREAS, for municipalities with real estate property tax rates below one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the median Cook County real estate property tax rate, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners desires such municipalities to join in its efforts to ensure that families residing in such
municipalities are not overburdened by real estate property taxes by giving these municipalities the option
to contribute to a circuit breaker fund and provide their residents real estate property tax relief; and
WHEREAS, for municipalities with tax rates at or above one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the median
Cook County real property estate tax rate, the Board of Commissioners recognizes the inability of such
municipalities to contribute to a circuit breaker fund and desires to provide the residents of such
municipalities real estate property tax relief without contribution from such municipalities; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners desires to enact a Cook County Circuit Breaker
program to provide real estate property tax relief to low and moderate income households in Cook
County.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74, Article II, Division 1
Section 74-45, of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 74-45.

COOK COUNTY CIRCUIT BREAKER PROGRAM

(a)
forth below:

Definitions. The following terms used in this Ordinance shall have the meanings as set

Administrator means the Cook County Assessor’s Office.
Claimant means an individual who makes application to the Administrator for a Grant regarding a
claim year under this Ordinance.
Claim Year means the real estate property tax year for which Claimant seeks a Grant.
Class 2 Real Property means residential properties as defined in Section 74-63(2) of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances.
County means the County of Cook.
Non-contributing Municipality means any municipality in the County containing real estate
having a real estate tax rate at or above one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Median County Property
Tax Rate in the claim year and has elected to participate in the Program through ordinance enacted after
the effective date of this Ordinance.
Fund means those monies collected from the State, County and Participating Municipalities and
held by the County for distribution to eligible Claimants pursuant to the Ordinance.
Grant means an amount of money representing a reduction to a qualifying residence’s real estate
property taxes for a given claim year, as determined under this Ordinance.
Household means a claimant, the spouse of the claimant, and all persons using the qualifying
residence as their principal place of residence during the claim year.
Household Income means the aggregate annual income of the members of the household in the
claim year.
Income has the same meaning as provided by Illinois Statute in Section 3.07 of the Senior
Citizens and Disabled Persons Property Tax Relief and Pharmaceutical Assistance Act, 320 ILCS
25/3.07, except that “income” does not include veteran's benefits.

 page 4
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Median County Property Tax Rate means the median real estate property tax rate calculated by
using the cumulative real estate property tax rate for a particular municipality in Cook County for the
claim year.
Contributing Municipality means any municipality in the County containing real estate having a
real estate property tax rate that is less than one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Median County
Property Tax Rate in the claim year and has elected to participate in the Program through ordinance
enacted after the effective date of this Ordinance.
Ordinance means the Cook County Circuit Breaker Program Ordinance.
Participating Municipality means any Non-contributing Municipality or any Contributing
Municipality.
Program means the property tax relief provided for under this Ordinance.
Property Taxes Accrued means the ad valorem real estate property taxes extended against a
residence payable or paid by a claimant for the claim year, excluding special assessments, back taxes,
omitted assessments, interest, or service charges such as association or maintenance fees. “Property taxes
accrued” shall be determined after accounting for the application of any and all statutory exemptions,
abatements or other reductions as required by law.
Qualifying Residence means Class 2 real property located in a Participating Municipality or
located in unincorporated Cook County which is used and occupied as a principal place of residence by
the Claimant on January 1 of and throughout the claim year.
State means the State of Illinois.
(b)

(c)

Municipal Participation
(1)

A Non-contributing Municipality must provide to the Administrator a certified
copy of the ordinance by which it elects to participate in the Program and the
Administrator cannot authorize the County to make payment on any Grants
regarding qualifying residences in a Non-contributing Municipality until such
ordinance is provided.

(2)

A Contributing Municipality must provide to the Administrator a certified copy
of the ordinance by which it elects to participate in the Program and the
Administrator cannot authorize the County to make payment on any Grants
regarding qualifying residences in a Contributing Municipality until such
ordinance is provided.

Claimant Eligibility Qualifications
(1)

Beginning with real estate property tax year 2007 (payable in 2008), and for each
tax year thereafter, the Administrator shall determine a claimant’s eligibility for a
particular claim year based upon the following:
a.

In the claim year, the Claimant shall be a person residing in a qualifying
residence;

b.

Claimant must be liable for payment of the real estate property taxes of
the qualifying residence for the claim year;

c.

In the claim year, the Claimant must be the owner of record of the
qualifying residence or have a legal or equitable interest in the property
as evidenced by a written instrument, or Claimant must have a leasehold
interest in the qualified residence as evidenced by a written instrument;

 page 5
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
d.

Claimant shall make a grant application to the Administrator, in a
manner and form prescribed by the Administrator; and

e.

Claimant shall not be eligible for a grant regarding a claim year on a
qualifying residence if: 1.) the Administrator has already approved a
grant for the qualifying residence in that claim year; or 2.) the Claimant
was approved for a grant regarding a different qualifying residence in
that claim year.

(d) Grant Amount
(1)

(e)

(f)

If the Administrator determines that a Claimant is eligible for a grant regarding a
claim year on a qualifying residence, the amount of the Grant shall be the lesser
of:
a.

$700.00; or

b.

the amount of the Property Taxes Accrued on the Qualifying Residence
for the claim year that is greater than 5% of the Claimant’s household
income.

Administration of the Cook County Circuit Breaker
(1)

The Administrator shall have the authority to create and enforce rules it deems
necessary to carry its responsibilities under this Ordinance. The Administrator
may delegate any of its duties contained herein to a Participating Municipality.

(2)

The Administrator shall have the authority and discretion to determine the
eligibility of a Claimant, the amount of the Grant, and the type of supporting
documentation that a Claimant must provide including but not limited to affidavit
and financial records in order to ensure that the tax savings resulting from the
Grant are distributed only to qualifying Claimants.

(3)

The Administrator shall have the authority to direct the County to make payment
to an eligible Claimant for a Grant in an amount authorized under this Ordinance.

(4)

The Administrator shall establish a date on which all grant applications for a
particular claim year must be received by the Administrator and after which no
application can be made. The Administrator shall establish a date upon which all
applications shall be reviewed and a final determination is made as to: 1.) which
Claimants shall be eligible to receive a Grant; and 2.) the Grant amount each
eligible Claimant shall be authorized to receive.

(5)

The Administrator shall establish a date upon which a final determination must
be transmitted to the County as to: 1.) which Claimants shall be eligible to
receive a Grant; and 2.) the Grant amount each eligible Claimant shall be
authorized to receive. Upon receipt of this transmission, the County shall make
payment to Claimants determined to be eligible to receive a Grant in the amount
authorized by the Administrator.

Funding of the Cook County Circuit Breaker
(1)

The County shall establish and maintain a Fund to finance Grants to Claimants
that the Administrator has determined to be eligible for such relief. The County
shall collect monies and distribute authorized Grants to eligible Claimants
pursuant to this Ordinance.

(2)

The County and Contributing Municipalities shall provide sufficient monies to
the County for the Fund in order to cover their requisite share of the cost of
Grants regarding a claim year for qualifying residences.

 page 6
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
(3)

The Administrator shall determine the requisite share that Contributing
Municipalities and the County will be required to provide to the Fund regarding
grants authorized by the Administrator.

(4)

The County and Contributing Municipalities shall pay their requisite share into
the Fund, if any, within 30 days after the Administrator transmits to the County
the Administrator’s final determination regarding: 1.) which Claimants shall be
eligible to receive a Grant; and 2.) the Grant amount each eligible Claimant shall
be authorized to receive.

(5)

The County shall not make payment to any eligible Claimant for a grant amount
authorized by the Administrator regarding a qualifying residence until the
applicable Contributing Municipality and the County have paid their requisite
share into the Fund regarding grants authorized by the Administrator.
* * * * *

ITEM #4
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL &
VETERANS RELATIONS #297145
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
and GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH A WOMEN’S JUSTICE SERVICES FUND
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law Enforcement,
Section 46-5 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-5.

Women’s Justice Services Fund.

The Comptroller shall create a special fund to be known as the “Women’s Justice Services Fund”
which shall be subject to budget and appropriation for purposes related to operation of the rehabilitation
programs provided by the Sheriff’s Office Department of Women’s Justice Services, including mental
health and substance abuse treatment services. Fines collected for violations under Sec. 58-167 of the
Code, Public Morals Nuisance Violations, shall be accounted for and turned over not less than monthly to
the Cook County Treasurer for deposit into such Fund.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.
* * * * *
ITEM #5
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE
VETERANS RELATIONS #297146

LEGISLATION,

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

&

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
and GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PUBLIC MORALS NUISANCE VIOLATIONS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58 Offenses and
Miscellaneous Provisions, Section 58-167 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:

 page 7
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC MORALS
Sec. 58-167.

Public Morals Nuisance Violations.

(a)
Short Title-Purpose. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Public Morals
Nuisance Violation Ordinance. The intent of this ordinance is to abate the demand for prostitution by
increasing fines for those individuals patronizing persons in prostitution.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
Prostitution. Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual
penetration as defined in this subsection for any money, property, token, object, or article or anything of
value, or any touching or fondling of the sex organs of one person by another person, for any money,
property, token, object, or article or anything of value, for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification
commits an act of prostitution.
Soliciting of a Prostitute. Any person who performs any of the following acts commits
the violation of soliciting for a prostitute:
(1)
(2)
(3)

Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution; or
Arranges to meet a prostitute, or offers to arrange a meeting with a prostitute.
Directs another to a place knowing such direction is for the purpose of
prostitution.

Pandering. Any person who performs any of the following acts for any money, property, token,
object, or article or anything of value commits pandering:
(1)
(2)

Compels a person to become a prostitute; or
Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a person may practice
prostitution.

Pimping means any person who receives any money, property, token, object, or article or
anything of value from a prostitute, not for lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in
part from the practice of prostitution, commits pimping.
Sexual Penetration means any contact, however slight, between the sex organ or anus of one
person by an object, the sex organ, mouth or anus of another person, or any intrusion, however slight, of
any part of the body of one person or of any animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person,
including but not limited to cunnilingus, fellatio or anal penetration. Evidence of emission of semen is
not required to prove sexual penetration.
Public place means any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking
lot or transportation facility or the doorways and entrance ways to any building which fronts on any of the
aforesaid places, or a motor vehicle in or on any such place, or any other public way, within Cook
County.
(c)

Street solicitation for prostitution.
(1)

Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place and repeatedly
beckons to, or repeatedly attempts to engage, passersby in conversation, or
repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other persons, for the purpose of
soliciting for a prostitute, shall be guilty of a violation of this subsection.

(2)

Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place and repeatedly
beckons to, or repeatedly stops, or repeatedly attempts to stop, or repeatedly
attempts to engage passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to
stop motor vehicles, or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other
persons, for the purpose of pandering shall be guilty of a violation of this
subsection.

 page 8
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(3)

Any person who responds to the beckoning of a prostitute in a public place by
inquiring about, negotiating for, accepting an offer of prostitution, or by allowing
another into his or her motor vehicle for purposes of inquiring about, negotiating
for, accepting an offer of prostitution, shall be guilty of a violation of this
subsection. The Sheriff shall make available to local newspapers, radio and
television stations the names of all persons charged with violating this
subsection.

(4)

Any person who engages in pimping as defined in this section, shall be guilty of
a violation of this subsection.

(d)
Solicitation by Internet, electronic communication device or print media. Any person
who utilizes a computer, phone, any electronic communication device or print media (including but not
limited to answering ads and messages on commercial adult-themed websites or answering ads in all
forms of print media) in the commission of any of the violations set forth in subsection (c) shall be guilty
of a violation of this subsection.
(e)

Public Morals Nuisance Violations-Penalties.
(1)

Any person who violates any provision of subsections (c) and (d) of this Section
shall be civilly liable for a public morals nuisance violation and shall be fined not
less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00. In addition to payment of fines
imposed under this subsection, a violator may be required to perform a minimum
of 100 hours of community service in a program under the direction of the
Sheriff.

(2)

Any violations of subsection (c) and (d) by a county licensee, including but not
limited to liquor and roadhouse licensees, may be cause for suspension or
revocation of such license.

(3)

Any motor vehicle that is used in violation of subsection (c) and (d) shall be
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to Section 58-164.

(4)

Fines collected under this subsection shall be deposited in the Women’s Justice
Services Fund established by County Ordinance and shall be used to fund
rehabilitation services, including mental health and substance abuse treatment
services, provided by and through the Sheriff’s Office Department of Women’s
Justice Services.

(f)
Administrative Adjudication. Any person issued a notice of violation by the Sheriff for
violation of any provision of this Section may request an administrative hearing.
(1)

Notice
(i)

Before any administrative adjudication proceeding may be conducted,
the parties shall be afforded notice in compliance with this section.

(ii)

Unless otherwise provided by law or rule, the issuer of a notice of
violation or notice of hearing shall specify on the notice his or her name
and department; where known, the name and address of the person or
entity charged with the violation; the date, time and place of the
violation; and the section of the code or departmental rule or regulation
which was allegedly violated; and shall certify the correctness of the
specified information by signing his or her name to the notice. A notice
of hearing shall also include the date, time and location of the hearing
and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.

(iii)

The County shall notify the violator, within ten days, by certified mail
return receipt requested, that an administrative adjudication hearing will
be conducted. The hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued
by order of the administrative law officer, no later than 30 days after the
date of the violation.

 page 9
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(g)

Administrative hearings.
(1)

Any administrative adjudication proceeding conducted by the County shall afford
the parties an opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law officer.

(2)

An attorney who appears on behalf of any person shall file with the
administrative law officer a written appearance on a form provided for such
purpose.

(3)

While the case for the County will not be presented by the administrative law
officer; documentary evidence, however, including the notice of violation, which
has been prepared by the Sheriff, may be presented at the hearing by the
administrative law officer.

(4)

The administrative law officer may grant continuances only upon a finding of
good cause.

(5)

All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.

(6)

The administrative law officer may permit witnesses to submit their testimony by
affidavit.

(7)

The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the conduct of the
hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type
commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs.

(8)

No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of the
evidence; provided, however, that a violation notice, or a copy thereof, shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified therein.

(9)

Upon the timely request of any party to the proceeding, any person, who the
administrative law officer determines may reasonably be expected to provide
testimony which is material and which does not constitute a needless presentation
of cumulative evidence, shall be made available for cross-examination prior to a
final determination of liability.

(10)

The record of all hearings before an administrative law officer shall include: (i) a
record of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means; (ii) all documents presented at the hearing;
(iii) a copy of the notice of violation or notice of hearing; and (iv) a copy of the
findings and decision of the administrative law officer.

(11)

Upon conclusion of a hearing, the administrative law officer shall issue a final
determination of liability or no liability. Upon issuing a final determination of
liability the administrative law officer may: (i) impose penalties and/or fines that
are consistent with this Section or other applicable provisions of the County
Code; (ii) issue orders that are consistent with applicable provisions of the
County Code; and/or (iii) assess costs reasonably related to instituting the
administrative adjudication proceeding; provided, however, that in no event shall
the administrative law officer have the authority to impose a penalty of
imprisonment or, except in cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and
collected by the county, where this limitation shall not apply, impose a fine in
excess of $5,000.00 exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure
compliance with this Code.

(12)

In the issuance of a final determination of liability, an administrative law officer
shall inform the violator of his or her right to seek judicial review of the final
determination.

(h)
Compliance bond. In order to ensure that code violations are remedied or fines are paid
in a timely manner, an administrative law officer, upon issuing a final determination of liability, may
require a code violator to post with the County a compliance bond. Bonds shall be approved by the
County Comptroller as to form and amount.
(i)
Hearing procedures not exclusive. The use of the administrative adjudication procedure
for public morals nuisance violations shall not preclude the county from using other methods to enforce
the provisions of section 58-167.

 page 10
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCES continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(j)
Women’s Justice Services Fund. As set forth in County Ordinance, fines collected for
violations of this Section shall be accounted for and turned over not less than monthly to the Cook County
Treasurer. The Treasurer shall create and deposit all such fees in a special fund, the “ Women’s Justice
Services Fund” which shall be subject to budget and appropriation for purposes related to operation of the
rehabilitation programs provided by the Department of Women’s Justice Services.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.
* * * * *
ITEM #6
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #297147, AS AMENDED
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN and GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
JAIL INMATE MEDICAL CARE FEE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law Enforcement,
Section 46-4 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 46-4.

Jail Inmate Medical Care Fee

(a)
Definitions: For purposes of this section, the term inmate will refer to those individuals
who are pre-trial detainees, convicted misdemeanants serving a sentence of incarceration in the Jail, and
all other persons in the custody of the Sheriff.
(b)
Jail Inmate Medical Care Fee. Inmates who require medical care will be required to pay
a medical care fee. The fee is $10.00 if the inmate is transported by the Sheriff to an outside medical
facility for medical care. The fee is $5.00 if the inmate is transported by the Sheriff to Cermak Health
Services for medical care. This fee will be deducted from the inmates’ Jail Trust or Commissary
Account. Inmates will not be denied medical treatment based on inability to pay. The Sheriff shall
promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for deduction of all fees from an inmate’s account. All fees
collected by the Sheriff will be deposited in the Cook County General Self Insurance Fund.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:

Code Section

Description

Fees,
Rates,
Charges
(in dollars)

CHAPTER 46, LAW ENFORCEMENT
46-4 (b)

Medical Care Fee (outside medical facility)

10.00

46-4 (b)

Medical Care Fee (Cermak Health Services)

5.00

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.

 page 11
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #7
APPROVED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, County Commissioner
Co Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION HONORING GEORGE BURCIAGA
WHEREAS, in 1998 George Burciaga founded smarTECHS.net, an IT Firm offering full technology
life-cycle solutions to the marketplace within: Advanced Web & Application Development, Infrastructure
Development/Integration and Project Management. The company’s client base is within the Public and
Private Economic Sectors ranging from Financial and Educational Institutions to Government Agencies
and Municipalities. After starting smarTECHS.net from his two-bedroom apartment, George Burciaga,
who grew up in Pilsen, has built a successful company that serves both national and international clients,
including Harris Bank, Comcast and the Bank of Montreal; and
WHEREAS, by building strategic partnerships with global IT corporations and offering customized
solutions, Mr. Burciaga has doubled the revenue of smarTECHS.net in each of the last three years,
earning recognition from Inc. Magazine in 2007 and 2008 as one of the “Fastest Growing Private
Companies of America”; and
WHEREAS, in 2008 George Burciaga was named Illinois Small-Business Person of the Year, by the
U.S. Small Business Administration, and was selected from 53 small business owners nationwide to be
named second runner-up for the 2008 National Small-Business Person of the Year Award, earning him
special recognition at a White House reception hosted by President George W. Bush for this honor; and
WHEREAS, George Burciaga, a true civic leader, who serves on the board of directors of several
professional and nonprofit organizations, is a popular speaker at colleges and universities and participates
in the annual Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center’s “Future Founders” event, where he speaks about the
challenges entrepreneurs face in developing ideas; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Burciaga was selected to serve on the 2016 City of Chicago Olympic Committee; is a
member of the City of Chicago Mayor’s Advisory Council on Closing the Digital Divide; the Chicago
Entrepreneur Center Advisory Council for Empresario for the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce; the
Latino Technology Association; and the Near South Planning Board of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, George started his firm’s “Follow Me Program” a program that encourages Chicago-area
high school students in underserved communities to attend college through organized visits to local
colleges. He is currently developing an innovative IT college residency program, “smarTECHS.net
onCAMPUS”, in conjunction with major universities and strategic partners Microsoft and Dell; he is also
planning the “smartINCUBATOR”, a program for emerging IT firms for the encouragement and
development of innovative Internet products for the global marketplace.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby recognize the many contributions Mr. George Burciaga has made to the County of Cook and his
steadfast commitment to community service, and congratulates him on his many achievements; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to Mr. George
Burciaga in commemoration of this momentous occasion; and

 page 12
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEM #8
APPROVED
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-108(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk
of the Board.
There are 15 Consent Calendar items for the November 5, 2008 Board Meeting.
CC ITEM #1
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Reverend James R. Flint, Jr. is the newly elected Pastor of Calvary Baptist Church at 8247
South Jeffrey Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Flint was born in Harvey, Illinois and is married to the former Ms. Thursday
Martin; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Flint holds a Bachelor’s degree in Theology from Arkansas Baptist College and a
Master’s degree in Divinity from Northern Baptist Theological Seminary; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Flint has preached the Word of God both locally and abroad; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Flint will be installed as Pastor of Calvary Baptist Church on Thursday, October
30, 2008, on Friday, October 31, 2008 and on Sunday, November 2, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Calvary Baptist Church is a historic church in the community; having its beginnings on
Chicago’s Near North Side in December 1930 with five adults and four children, it now has a roll of
thousands; and
WHEREAS, Calvary Baptist Church is currently experiencing a renaissance and is steadily growing and
working in the community; and
WHEREAS, through Reverend Flint’s ministrations and faith dispensations, no doubt that lives of
Calvary Baptist Church congregants will be positively shaped and led toward God; and
WHEREAS, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit and the diligent leadership of Reverend Flint, the
congregants of Calvary Baptist Church can anticipate their future with joy.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, do hereby congratulate Reverend James R. Flint, Jr. upon his appointment as
the new Pastor of Calvary Baptist Church and do commend and thank him for the spiritual leadership he
continues to bring to the residents of Cook County.
* * * * *

 page 13
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #2
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Reverend Webb Evans has distinguished himself greatly as an activist and a leader in
fighting for capital for African Americans; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Evans was born in Greensboro, Alabama on November 20, 1913; he attended
grammar school in Lumberton, Mississippi, attended high school in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, attended
college at Tennessee State University in Nashville, Tennessee, and attended Cortez Business School in
Chicago Illinois; and
WHEREAS, during World War II, Reverend Evans contributed to the war effort through his work at the
Bendix Aviation Plant; and
WHEREAS, after the war, Reverend Evans managed the Ida B. Wells Co-Op grocery store and, after a
few years, he and his wife opened their own grocery store; after operating several years at Nine West 31st
Street, Reverend Evans opened another grocery store at 515 East 46th Street, and later opened a book
store at 4653 Vincennes Avenue; and
WHEREAS, in 1961, Reverend Evans discussed with Reverend Dr. J.C. Austin, Sr., who was then pastor
at the Pilgrim Baptist Church at 3301 South Indiana Avenue, what he would like to do to make life better
for African Americans in America; Reverend Evans felt that African Americans were depending on
others for too much; he felt that instead of using time trying to make others give African Americans jobs,
African Americans should invest their money and create their own jobs; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Austin told him that would be the greatest contribution he could ever make to the
advancement of African Americans; and
WHEREAS, with the encouragement of Reverend Dr. Austin, Reverend Evans started immediately to
organize the United American Progress Association; the Association has persuaded more people to hold
their banquets in the African American community, to buy goods produced by African Americans, to eat
at African American owned restaurants, to take their clothes to African American owned cleaners, to
purchase their gasoline at African American owned gas stations, to purchase their food at African
American grocery stores and to deposit their money in African American banks, credit unions and savings
and loans associations; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Evans teaches African Americans to sell to anybody and to give the best service,
but to buy from African Americans to lift us out of the poverty conditions we are in; and
WHEREAS, during the 47 years of his organization, Reverend Evans has received numerous honors; he
is listed in the book of ‘Who Is Who” among African Americans; he is in the Chicago Hall of Fame; he
has been made an honorary citizen of Tennessee; he has been honored by the State Street Council; he has
received the Leading Male Volunteer of Chicago Award; he has received the Cosmopolitan Chamber of
Commerce Award and a Lifetime Achievement Award from WVON Radio Station; he has been honored
by the Pastors’ Conference of Chicago and Vicinity, and has been honored by numerous others; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Evans is to be highly commended and lauded for the breadth of his activism and
civic leadership.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five
million residents of Cook County, do hereby recognize Reverend Webb Evans for his important and
commendable work on behalf of our County, and may a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered
herewith.
* * * * *

 page 14
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #3
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His Infinite Wisdom has called Ms. Anna Helen Lucear from our midst;
and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear was born to the late Andrew and Ruby Hightower on November 16, 1933; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear married Earl W. Avery in 1955 and to that union two children were born,
Patricia L. Avery and Kenneth E. Avery; Ms. Lucear wed a second time to Charles W. Lucear, who died
in 1989; they were married for 29 years; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear also lovingly raised her granddaughter, Schyla N. Avery; and
WHEREAS, after Ms. Lucear’s oldest sister, Mary, died, Ms. Lucear became a mother figure to her
children, Reco, Larry, Gary and Anthony Huggins; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear was a dedicated worker at the U.S. Postal Service for 26 years; she retired in
1992; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear leaves a loving family to cherish her memory, including her daughter, Pat, her
son, Kenneth, his wife, Sharon, and their children, Schyla N. Avery, Kwasi Davis and Kenneth V. Avery,
and one great-granddaughter, Destiny L. Stinchcomb; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear was the third of seven siblings; she was predeceased by four siblings, Mary,
Andrew, Edmond and Vera Mae Hightower; she predeceases her sister, Ruth Lucear and her brother,
Rufus E. Hightower; and
WHEREAS, her cousin, Annie Pearl Jordan, was like a sister to her throughout her life; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Lucear leaves a host of beloved nieces, nephews, aunts, uncles, other relatives,
coworkers and friends.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Anna Helen Lucear’s memory shall be cherished in all
the hearts of the people she touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five million
residents of Cook County, hereby do express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the
family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Anna Helen Lucear, and may a suitable copy of
this Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #4
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His Infinite Wisdom has called a beloved woman of service, Dr. Mary
Abraham, from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham was born to Mr. and Mrs. K.G. John of Thekkemannil House Vennikulam,
Kerala State, India on November 30, 1953; and

 page 15
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #4 cont’d
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham was a loving and dedicated wife, mother, daughter, sister and friend; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham was blessed to be married for 28 years to the love of her life, Mathew (Valsan
of Valoor Kottapuram, Cherukole); and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham was deeply devoted to her two daughters, Melvy and Ivy, as well as to her
mother living in India and to her siblings; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham lived a life of serving and caring for people which took her around the world;
and
WHEREAS, after graduating from T.D. Medical College of Alleppey, India and finishing her medical
internship training, Dr. Abraham joined her husband in Nigeria as a physician at A.B.U. Teaching
Hospital; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham successfully completed her residency in internal medicine at Cook County
Hospital from 1988 to 1991, and her fellowship in nephrology at Loyola University Hospital in 1993; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham selflessly devoted her service to underserved communities in Kentucky and
Chicago; and
WHEREAS, in her distinguished career, Dr. Abraham was a senior nephrologist at Provident Hospital of
Cook County for 13 years, was associated with Nephrology Associates of Northern Illinois and was a
consultant at Holy Cross, Jackson Park and St. Bernards Hospitals; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham’s life was rich with family, work and church, and she approached life with
refreshing, passionate and unending drive; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Abraham is survived by her husband, Mathew, and daughters, Ivy and Melvy.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Dr. Mary Abraham’s memory shall be cherished in all
the hearts of the people she touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five million
residents of Cook County, hereby do express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the
family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Dr. Mary Abraham, and may a suitable copy of
this Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #5
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, First Sergeant Jose “Joey” V. Juachon, who celebrates his 90th birthday today, is a former
prisoner-of-war and veteran hero; he survived the infamous Fall of Bataan and Bataan Death March in the
Philippines during World War II; and
WHEREAS, First Sergeant Juachon was one of 200,000 Filipinos who served with the United States
Military during World War II; and
WHEREAS, at the time of the military service of these Filipinos, the Philippines was a United States
commonwealth, and these brave servicemen were promised veterans’ benefits by the United States
Military; and

 page 16
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #5 cont’d
WHEREAS, as these Filipino servicemen fought, suffered unspeakably at the hands of their Japanese
captors and died, their blood was just as red as that of a United States soldier, marine, airman or sailor;
and
WHEREAS, in 1946, when the Philippines gained independence, the United States Congress passed the
Rescission Act, which stripped Filipinos of all the benefits promised to them; of the 66 countries allied
with the United States during World War II, the Philippines is the only country that did not receive
military benefits from the United States; and
WHEREAS, sociologists have introduced the term, “second class veterans” to describe the plight of the
30,000 Filipino-American veterans, most of them citizens, who live in the United States today; and
WHEREAS, currently there are bills in the United States Senate and the United States House of
Representatives to right this shameful wrong, S. 57 and H.R. 760, respectfully; these veterans only desire
the same benefits as their United States servicemen compatriots no more, no less.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, along with the Cook County Board
of Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby offer my
most humble thankfulness to First Sergeant Jose “Joey” V. Juachon for his military service and sacrifice,
do wish him a healthy and happy 90th birthday, and do urge the United States House of Representatives
and the United States Senate to pass S. 57 and H.R. 760 respectively, and may a suitable copy of this
Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #6
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, JOHN P. DALEY, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Bishop Arthur M. Brazier was recently appointed as the first Senior Fellow of the Local
Initiatives Support Corporation of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier is distinguished by the stupendous breadth of his activism, civic leadership
and spiritual stewardship, all of which he will bring to bear in his new position; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier served until recently as Pastor of the Apostolic Church of God, which is
comprised of a membership of over 20,000 dedicated followers; and
WHEREAS, in 1961 Bishop Brazier founded The Woodlawn Organization through which he
distinguished himself as a committed and effective community activist and organizational leader; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier completed a tour of duty in the U.S. Army during World War II with
overseas service in China, Burma and the India Theater Operations while receiving two battle stars for
North Burma and Central Burma campaigns; and
WHEREAS, in 1969 Bishop Brazier accepted a staff position with the Citizens Crusade Against Poverty,
where he advocated against this devastating social ill; and

 page 17
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #6 cont’d
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier joined the staff of the Center for Community Change, a Washington-based
institution that provided technical assistance to community organizations; as Vice President, he assisted in
negotiating joint venture relationships between non-profit organizations and proven developers; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier is also the founding Chairman of The Fund for Community Redevelopment
and Revitalization, a MacArthur Foundation grant recipient which is undertaking the rebuilding of the
neighborhoods of East Woodlawn and North Kenwood-Oakland; and
WHEREAS, Bishop Brazier has authored several articles and three books, and has lectured at numerous
universities, including Harvard University and the University of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation of Chicago, in its 30 years of operation, has
invested $160 million in some 26,000 units of housing and 4.2 million square feet of commercial space
and community facilities, and has provided support for employment programs, family financial
counseling, youth arts and recreation, and community safety; the Local Initiatives Support Corporation of
Chicago is part of a network that has programs in 30 cities nationwide; and
WHEREAS, in his year-long Fellowship, Bishop Brazier will complement the experience which the
Local Initiatives Support Corporation of Chicago has in comprehensively developing healthy, stable
neighborhoods.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five
million residents of Cook County, do hereby recognize Bishop Arthur M. Brazier for his important,
commendable work on behalf of our County and wish him every success in his new position as the first
Senior Fellow of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation of Chicago, and may a suitable copy of this
Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #7
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His Infinite Wisdom has called Mother Bernice Barnes from our midst;
and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes was born to the late Pearlean Cole and Herbert Locket on February 22,
1933; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes came to Chicago in 1959 and resided in Robbins, Illinois later setting in
Harvey, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes worked at Bowman Nursing Home, West Harvey School District 147 and
Ingalls Memorial Hospital; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes accepted Christ under the pastorate of the late Reverend Beniman of New
Mt. Camel in Lambert, Mississippi where she was baptized with her Uncle Chris Cole; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes was President of the Usher Board and an ordained Mother under the
leadership of the late Reverend Levi Allison of Greater Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church in
Markham, Illinois; and

 page 18
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #7 cont’d
WHEREAS, at the time of her passing, Mother Barnes was the Elder Mother of New Name Missionary
Baptist Church in Riverdale, Illinois where the Reverend Dr. Michael Burnside is the Pastor; and
WHEREAS, through her life Mother Barnes was known for her warm, compassionate and loving
manner; she often opened her home to family and friends for a place to stay, a good home cooked meal or
one of her tasty sweet potato pies that were her specialty; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes loved deeply and was inseparable from her only sister, Marie (Cassell); and
WHEREAS, no matter the challenges, Mother Barnes’s anchor and strength were prayer and the Bible;
she always remained optimistic in her faith in God and in her personal Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; and
WHEREAS, Mother Barnes leaves behind a legacy of love to her nine children, thirty grandchildren,
forty-six great grandchildren, only sister, Marie Darden, three brothers, Ronnie, Steven and Claude, dear
uncles and an aunt, the Reverend Chris (Jannie Mae) Cole of Lambert, Mississippi and W.B. Cole of
Robbins, Illinois, in addition to numerous beloved nieces, nephews, cousins and additional extended
family and friends.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mother Bernice Barnes’ memory shall be cherished in
all the hearts of the people she touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five million
residents of Cook County, hereby do express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the
family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Mother Bernice Barnes, and may a suitable copy
of this Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #8
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called a woman of grace and character, Christine
A. Durbin, from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Durbin spent her life in a heroic battle with heart disease due to a congenital heart
condition; she lost that fight on November 1, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Durbin’s achievements included a career which spanned 16 years, during which she
worked for the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the emerging markets division; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Durbin is survived by her husband, Marty Johnson, her son, Alex, her brother, Paul, her
sister, Jennifer, her father, Senator Dick Durbin and her mother, Loretta Durbin.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, on behalf
of the more than five million residents of Cook County, does hereby express its deepest condolences and
most heartfelt sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Christine A.
Durbin; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the family of
Christine A. Durbin so that her rich legacy may be so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *

 page 19
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #9
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called a woman of strength, sacrifice and deep
caring, Mrs. Madelyn Dunham, from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham were married in 1940, a few weeks before Mrs. Dunham
graduated from high school; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Dunham formed the cornerstone of her family, caring for, guiding and nurturing her
family, including her grandchildren and great-grandchildren; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Dunham made deep sacrifices, economic and otherwise, for the betterment of her
family; and
WHEREAS, throughout her life, Mrs. Dunham helped break the professional glass ceiling for women;
during the Second World War she worked on a bomber assembly line with a baby at home and a husband
serving his country, and in the late 1960s and early 1970s, she rose to become one of the Bank of
Hawaii’s first female vice presidents; and
WHEREAS, in losing Mrs. Madelyn Dunham, we have lost a deeply loving woman with an equally deep
sense of purpose.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger on behalf of the more than five
million residents of Cook County, do hereby express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt
sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Mrs. Madelyn Dunham; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the family of
Mrs. Madelyn Dunham so that her rich legacy may be so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #10
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in his infinite wisdom has called James C. Griggs, Jr. from our midst; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. was born on October 24, 1930 and raised on the near west side of
Chicago which James affectionately referred to as “James Town”; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. received a Bachelor of Arts from Roosevelt University in 1954, a
Master of Education from Illinois Teacher College in 1964, a Jurist Doctorate from DePaul University in
1977, and a PhD from Southern Illinois University, Carbondale Illinois in 1988; and
WHEREAS, James and wife Alice were married for 53 years and to this union they have one son, Eric
James (Billie) and one granddaughter Jessica; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. began his career in 1947 where he served the Army in the Illinois
National Guard, and went on to become a member of the Army Security agency with top secret clearance
and there he attained the rank of sergeant and was honorably discharged in September of 1957; and

 page 20
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #10 cont’d
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. started his career as a mental health sociologist with the Illinois
Department of Mental Health in 1957, he then went on to become a probation officer in 1958; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. went to work for the City of Chicago, Commission on Youth Welfare
and the Chicago Community Urban Opportunity in 1960, where he was responsible for providing
managing a community center which provided hope to the disenfranchised, in 1968 he went to work at the
University of Illinois/Chicago where he served as Director of the Educational Assistance Program (EAP)
designed to increase minority enrollment, this program served as a model for other state universities to
increase minority enrollment; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. became president of Malcolm X College in 1977 and remained until
1987 where he solidified the partnerships with the medical complex on the near west side of Chicago and
provided training for indigenous individuals in all medical professions, he retired from the City Colleges
of Chicago in 1992 as an assistant to the Chancellor; and
WHEREAS, James C. Griggs, Jr. departed this life on October 9, 2008 will be sorely missed but he will
never be forgotten.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we the Commissioners of the Cook County Board and
President Todd H. Stroger on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby
extend to the family of the late James C. Griggs, Jr. our deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathy, for
their loss is shared by this Honorable Body and the people of Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that a copy of same be tendered to the family of the late James
C. Griggs, Jr. in honor of his memory.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #11
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. passed into eternal life on October 15, 2008, while performing
lifesaving work as a helicopter nurse, assisting in the transport of Kirstin Blockinger, a 14 month old
angel who passed with him into eternal life at the same time; and
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. became passionate for this lifesaving work at the age of twelve when
he saw the inside of a Loyola University Lifestar helicopter, being so intrigued that he wrote a school
paper on it; and
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. grew up in Norridge, Cook County, Illinois, attended Holy Cross High
School, now Guerin College Prep, and graduated from Triton Community College; and
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. began his career as a paramedic with the Norwood Park Fire
Department, worked as a police officer in Huntley, Illinois, and worked in the emergency room at
Chicago Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center, and as a traveling nurse, recently attended to
emergency needs in Houston, Texas; and
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. earned his nursing license and joined the helicopter crew of the Air
Angels, a medical transport company; and

 page 21
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #11 cont’d
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. loved and respected his family, his parents and his sisters, and has
been described by them as “a star,” as one who was “an exceptional human being,” a “wonderful son and
a loving brother,” and “the sunshine in a room”; and
WHEREAS, William J. Mann, Jr. epitomized a young, hard working, dedicated citizen of Cook County,
who was committed to helping others in need.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and members of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners, honor and commemorate the life of a fine citizen, William J. Mann, Jr. and thank him
for his contributions to the quality of life for so many.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #12
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION PROCLAIMING NOVEMBER AS AFFORDABLE HOUSING MONTH
WHEREAS, housing is a human right and owning a home is part of the American Dream; and
WHEREAS, the foreclosure crisis continues to affect Cook County, with foreclosures increasing 47.8%
in the first half of 2008 and may pass 42,000 by year’s end, and in Illinois, where one in 510 homes were
in some stage of foreclosure in September 2008; and
WHEREAS, as the effects of the foreclosure crisis continue to be felt, it is vital that displaced families
have affordable, accessible and secure housing; and
WHEREAS, there is a shortage of rental units for those with the lowest incomes, with the City of
Chicago falling nearly 85,000 units short to meet the need; and
WHEREAS, public housing and Housing Choice Vouchers, sometimes the only resources available for
needy families, are stretched thin by too little support from the federal government, leading to tens of
thousands of families in Illinois being on the waiting list for either program; and
WHEREAS, previously-affordable and subsidized housing units have been converted to market-rate
housing, further limiting the housing opportunity for low income families; and
WHEREAS, the housing crisis has caused homeless service providers to serve more clients without the
needed increase in funding support; and
WHEREAS, the lack of affordable housing exposes women and children to violence; and
WHEREAS, fully accessible affordable housing for people with disabilities is in short supply; and
WHEREAS, a solution to the lack of affordable housing will require cooperation and coordination by
neighborhood organizations, housing advocates, business leaders and all levels of government.

 page 22
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #12 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby declare November to be Affordable Housing Month; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby salute and
thank the many grassroots organizations, non-profit housing professionals, financial institutions, and
elected officials for their dedication to addressing this vital challenge and encourages them to continue to
work towards the goal of every person in Cook County having access to affordable housing.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #13
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
IN MEMORY OF GEORGE J. SCHAEFER
WHEREAS, George J. Schaefer, a lifelong resident of Evanston, Illinois, died of complications of a
stem-cell transplant to treat cancer on October 17, 2008 at the age of 64 years old; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer, the owner of Schaefer’s Wines, Foods & Spirits, a family business founded
by his father in 1936 and later run by his mother, will long be remembered as the “driving force and
guiding light” of the business and for his concern for others; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer, who worked in the family customer-focused business while attending high
school at Loyola Academy, joined in the ownership and management of the business upon his graduation
from the University of Notre Dame in 1966; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer, was among the first wine and spirits retailers to focus on wine appreciation
and enjoyed educating customers about the many affordable wines offered at the store; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer, along with his sister, Gene Flynn, expanded the business in the 1980s to
include food and deli items, making Schaefer’s a one-stop destination for all of their customers’
entertainment needs; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer was deeply committed to creating job development opportunities; serving on
the board of Harbor Quest, Inc., and Strive, Inc., not for profit job development companies and providing
employment opportunities for adult residents of Misericordia Heart of Mercy Center in Chicago,
including the packaging and mailing of wine orders; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer’s other philanthropic work included being a member of the board of Kendall
College in Chicago; supporting the culinary program at the school both personally and through his
business; and

 page 23
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #13 cont’d
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer, who had a wonderful sense of humor, established the “Griswold Award” in
1990; the award, named for Chevy Chase’s character in the 1989 film, “Christmas Vacation” was
awarded annually to the Evanston neighbor with the tackiest outdoor Christmas decorations; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Schaefer was a loving and devoted husband, father and brother, survived by his wife of
35 years, Ruth “Cookie” Schaefer (nee Herr), his two daughters, Anje Cluxton, and Mary Eileen, his two
sons, George, III and Robert and his sisters, Gene Flynn, Suzanen McConnell and Barbara Dhein; and
WHEREAS, George J. Schaefer will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew him.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of George J.
Schaefer and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of George
J. Schaefer so that his memory may be so honored and ever cherished.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #14
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
COMMENDING CHICAGO AND SUBURBAN PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN ACHIEVING
TOP TEST SCORES ON THE ILLINOIS STANDARDS ACHIEVEMENT TEST
WHEREAS, the Illinois Standards Achievement Test is administered pursuant to law in all Illinois public
schools; and
WHEREAS, although the test is only one component in determining the quality of a school, it is an
important factor; and
WHEREAS, four Chicago public elementary schools ranked in the top 100 in the state, including Oriole
Park (22nd), Norwood Park (27th), Bell (66th) and Lincoln (97th); and
WHEREAS, two suburban Cook County elementary schools ranked in the top 100 in the state, including
Lincoln in River Forest (6th), and Willard in Evanston (12th); and
WHEREAS, ten Chicago public middle schools ranked in the top 100 in the state, including Edgebrook
(11th), Lincoln (13th), Oriole Park (15th), Bell (32nd), Norwood Park (38th), Ogden (53rd), Blaine
(73rd), Wildwood (83rd), Beaubien (92nd) and Burley (100th); and
WHEREAS, six suburban Cook County middle schools ranked in the top 25 in the state, including
Joseph Sears in Kenilworth (10th), Roosevelt in River Forest (15th), Marie Murphy in Wilmette (18th),
Washburne in Winnetka (19th), Maple in Northbrook (20th), and Wilmette in Wilmette (23rd).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Members of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners commend each of the schools herein, their Boards of Education, parent/teacher
organizations, administrators, teachers and staff, and the students for their great achievements.
* * * * *

 page 24
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #8 cont’d
CC ITEM #15
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Tuesday, November 4, 2008 the people of the United States of America spoke and we
made our political will for social, political and economic change known, electing as our 44th President
Barack Obama; and
WHEREAS, we have watched over the past twenty-two months as President-Elect Obama has
distinguished himself as a man of leadership, calm and vision; and
WHEREAS, President-Elect Obama’s victory has already begun to transform the face of politics on
many levels, given the outcome of numerous races; its inclusion of the youth of America will continue
this transformation for years to come; and
WHEREAS, as a Nation at war and facing the largest economic challenges in a century, we have come to
trust President-Elect Obama, that his steady steerage will lead our Nation out of turmoil and into placid
seas; and
WHEREAS, we embrace and look with hope to President-Elect Obama to lead us into a new day of
American goodwill; President-Elect Obama’s historic victory belongs not only to our Nation, but to our
World.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby express our pride and
congratulations to our native son, President-Elect Barack Obama, and look with hope toward the political,
social and economic healing that he has already commenced; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to President-Elect
Barack Obama.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
ITEM #9
DETAILED INFORMATION REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORTS IS AVAILABLE FROM
THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Information Technology & Automation ......................................................... Meeting of October 30, 2008
recessed and reconvened on November 5, 2008
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Finance.......................................................................................................... Meeting of November 5, 2008
APPROVED
Zoning & Building........................................................................................ Meeting of November 5, 2008
APPROVED
Roads & Bridges ........................................................................................... Meeting of November 5, 2008
APPROVED

 page 25
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CERMAK HEALTH SERVICES OF COOK COUNTY
GRANT AWARD RENEWALS
ITEM #10
WITHDRAWN
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2008 from
DAVID FAGUS, Chief Operating Officer, Cermak Health Services of Cook County
requesting authorization to extend a grant for eight (8) months in the amount of $105,478.00 with the
AIDS Foundation of Chicago. The purpose of this grant is to continue funding two (2) case manager
positions in the HIV/AIDS program.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
July 1, 2008 in the amount of $39,499.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $105,478.00. Funding period: August 1, 2008 through
March 31, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Interim Chief Operating Officer will submit this item to the
Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board for their approval.

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
ITEM #11
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 2, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $142,721.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH). The purpose of this grant is to participate in the Cities Readiness Initiative (CRI)
in Illinois: that is, participate in a review of the Emergency Response Plan, identify and correct
weaknesses in the plan, and cooperate in a regional collaborative effort to develop a United States Postal
Services Emergency Plan.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on January 31, 2008 February 6, 2008 by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners in the amount of $142,721.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $142,721.00. Funding period: August 1, 2008 through
July 31, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Interim Chief Operating Officer will submit this item to the
Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board for their approval.
* * * * *

 page 26
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM continued
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
GRANT AWARD RENEWALS continued
ITEM #12
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 2, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $751,307.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH) for a tobacco reduction program which will work to eliminate exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke; promote quitting smoking among adults and youth and prevent initiation
of smoking among youth in suburban Cook County.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on September 6, 2007 by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in the amount of $774,322.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $751,307.00. Funding period: February 6, 2009 through
February 5, 2010.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Interim Chief Operating Officer will submit this item to the
Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board for their approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #13
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 1, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $1,487,976.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH) for bioterrorism and emergency preparedness response and pandemic flu
preparation. The purpose of this grant is to maintain a suburban Cook County emergency response
preparedness plan for incidents of bioterrorism, infectious disease outbreaks and other public health
threats and emergencies.
The authorization to accept the previous grant for bioterrorism and emergency preparedness response was
given on January 9, 2008 by the Cook County Board of Commissioners in the amount of $1,873,007.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $1,487,976.00. Funding period: August 1, 2008 through
July 31, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Interim Chief Operating Officer will submit this item to the
Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board for their approval.
* * * * *

 page 27
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM continued
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
GRANT AWARD RENEWALS continued
ITEM #14
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 10, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant award in the amount of $534,535.00 from the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH) to provide breast and/or cervical cancer screening to eligible women
in suburban Cook County.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on October 16, 2007 in the amount of
$486,900.00 by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $534,535.00. Funding period: June 1, 2008 through
June 30, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
* * * * *
ITEM #15
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 10, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $130,600.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH) to continue the program to provide lead poisoning prevention with environmental
services for children in suburban Cook County.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on November 20, 2007 by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in the amount of $130,600.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $130,600.00. Funding period: July 1, 2008 through June
30, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
* * * * *
ITEM #16
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $7,422,169.00 and supplemental agreements in
the amount of $1,400,000.00 from the Illinois Department of Human Services and Illinois Department if
Public Aid (IDPA) to continue services for an array of programs and services administered by the Illinois
Department of Human Services, Division of Community Health and Prevention to include: All Our Kids
Early Childhood Networks; Family Case Management; Family Planning Services; Healthy Child Care
Illinois; Healthy Families Illinois; Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women; Infants and Children
(WIC); Targeted Intensive Prenatal Case Management and Teen Pregnancy Prevention, Primary and
Subsequent.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
July 31, 2007 in the amount of $12,611,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $7,422,169.00.
$1,400,000.00. Funding period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009.

Total Supplemental Agreements:

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
* * * * *

 page 28
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM continued
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
GRANT AWARD RENEWALS continued
ITEM #17
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 6, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to approve a Local Health Protection budget in the amount of $4,456,811.00.
The budget includes the following:
1.

renewal of the Local Health Protection grant in the amount of $2,083,994.00 from the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH). The Local Health Protection grant will provide health
programs for infectious diseases, food protection, potable water supply, and private sewage
disposal; the Tanning Facilities Inspection Program will provide for the inspection of tanning
facilities; and the Summer Food Program will provide for the inspection of designated food
service preparation facilities.

2.

a cash match in the amount of $1,654,517.00 from the Department of Public Health (895-818
Account) for the management of grant programs.*

3.

intergovernmental agreement revenue in the amount of $350,000.00 generated from
Environmental Health Food Sanitation Inspections for various suburban Cook County
municipalities.**

4.

the transfer of $368,300.00 from grants for partial salaries:***
A.

Vector Surveillance (959-818) for one third (33%) Two Sanitarians: $50,000.00.

B.

Tobacco Free Communities (935-818) for one-half (50%) Program Coordinator:
$65,000.00.

C.

Bioterrorism Preparation and Response (903-818) for one-half (50%) Program
Coordinator: $65,000.00.

D.

Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention (948-818) for one-half (50%) Sanitarian 2:
$65,000.00.

E.

Local Health Protection (975-818) for one-half (50%) Sanitarian 2 and one-fifth (20%) of
Epidemiologist 2: $60,000.00.

F.

Federal Source AIDS Surveillance (980-818) for eighty per cent (80%) Epidemiologist 2:
$63,300.00.

The authorization to accept the previous budget was given on September 6, 2007, in the amount of
$4,607,776.00 by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Local Health Protection Grant:
Cash match (895-818 Account):
Environmental inspections:
Partial salary transfers:
Total program amount:

$2,083,994.00
$1,654,517.00*
$ 350,000.00**
$ 368,300.00***
$4,656,811.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,654,517.00* (895-818 Account).
Grant funded amount: $2,802,294.00 ($2,083,994.00 - Local Health Protection grant; $350,000.00** Environmental Inspections; $368,300.00*** - Partial Salary transfers from grants.)
Funding period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 funds.

 page 29
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR
REPORT
ITEM #18
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 10, 2008 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting our “Status of Audit Recommendations” report as of September 2008 with updates for the
Sheriff’s Office - Surplus Vehicle Sales audit.

 page 30
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REPORT
ITEM #19
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 10, 2008 from
JARESE A. WILSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
pursuant to the Cook County Board Resolution 08-R-75 for Fiscal Year 2008, Section 29, the Department
of Budget and Management Services is submitting a report which shows all federal and state funds
received or administered by the County for the time period April 1, 2008 through September 30, 2008.
This report shall list the amounts disbursed and purposes for which disbursements were made, and shall
indicate the grantor of the funds, purpose, service area(s) and number of positions supported.

 page 31
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE
PHARMACY BUILD-OUT (CONTRACT NO. 07-53-562)
ITEM #20
RECEIVED AND FILED, AS AMENDED
COMMISSIONER GORMAN VOTED “NO”.
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 29, 2008 from
JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner
Please place the following letter from the Director of the Office of Contract Compliance on the County
Board Agenda for the November 5, 2008 meeting to be received and filed.
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 28, 2008 from
BETTY HANCOCK PERRY, Director, Office of Contract Compliance
This letter is in response to your request for information regarding Contract No. 07-53-562 (Madison
Construction).
Per your request, I am providing a chronology of events surrounding the actions taken by the Office of
Contract Compliance on the aforementioned contract, as well as a response to the correspondence
submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners by Commissioner Elizabeth Doody Gorman
during the board meeting on October 15, 2008.
Timeline - "Pharmacy Build-Out" - (Contract No. 07-53-562)
Bid Opening Date:
(Date that all documentation was to be submitted from
respondent in order for bid submissions to be
deemed complete and for award recommendation.)

July 17, 2008

Bid received in the Office of Contract Compliance:

August 17, 2008

Bid reviewed by Compliance Officer:

August 21, 2008

Call to subs listed on Utilization Plan log to request LOI: August 21, 2008
Call to subs listed on Good Faith Efforts Log:

August 28, 2008

Call to Compliance Officer from Mr. McCarthy regarding
bid:

September 4, 2008

Responsive/Non-Responsive Letter to Purchasing Agent:September 12, 2008
Call to Administrator from Mr. McCarthy regarding bid:

September 17, 2008

Received written correspondence from Mr. McCarthy
indicating the willingness of Madison to meet or
exceed goals:

September 19, 2008

Staff held a meeting with Commissioner Gorman’s Staff:

September 22, 2008

Call to Commissioner Gorman from Compliance
Administrator:

September 25, 2008

Award Recommendation Presented to the Board:

October 15, 2008

 page 32
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE continued
PHARMACY BUILD-OUT (CONTRACT NO. 07-53-562) continued
ITEM #20 cont’d
After receipt of the bid, the Office of Contract Compliance followed its standard operating procedures as
it does for all bids received from respondents to Cook County. During the review process, Contract
Compliance makes every attempt to secure compliance with Cook County's Minority and Women Owned
Business Enterprise participation goals and provides respondents with an opportunity to exercise good
faith efforts in meeting the stated contract goals. The following is a synopsis of the Department's findings
resulting from our comprehensive review:
UTILIZATION PLAN
Madison indicated the bid they submitted did not meet the “Specified Goals”, however, a note was
included at the bottom of the Utilization Plan which stated, "see good faith efforts, we will continue to try
to meet the goals." This response was not sufficient for this bid to be deemed responsive. The
compliance section of the bid document defines good faith efforts for respondents must be exercised prior
to bid submission, and supporting documentation must be included which validates the respondents
actions taken for them to be deemed responsive.
Madison’s Utilization Plan indicated the direct participation of ERA Valdivia ("Valdivia") as an MBE
participant with the dollar amount of participation listed as $200,000.00 (7%) of the bid amount.
Additionally, while the MBE/WBE Utilization Plan states that the Letter(s) of Certification must be
attached to the bid, the Letter of Certification for Valdivia was not attached to the bid and was later faxed
to this office and received on August 21, 2008 (See attached fax).
This was the only vendor listed on the Utilization Plan submitted by Madison, and nowhere in the
documentation did they request a reduction of MBE participation, with stated reasons as to why they were
unable to meet the full 24% goal.
Another area of deficiency in the Utilization Plan was surrounding the work to be performed by the MBE.
The description of work for Valdivia was listed as “Carpentry, Demolition”. The bid document states “A
Bidder may count only the participation of MBEs and WBEs for the scopes of work for which they are
certified on or before the date of the bid submission”. The Certification Letter from the City of Chicago
listed Valdivia as certified in the following areas:
“Painting, Drywall and Sandblasting Contractor; Terrazzo, Tile Resign and Vinyl Flooring; Waterproof
Membrane Systems Installation; Locker Installation.” Contract Compliance considered drywall
installation as a form of carpentry work and accepted this vendor for the provision of this service.
However, they were not certified to provide demolition services which meant that Madison would not
have received MBE credit for these services and thus not meet the 7% participation as stated in the
submitted Utilization Plan. Additionally, there were no other Minority/Women Owned Business
Enterprises listed on the Utilization Plan.
Overall the Utilization Plan did not sufficiently meet the M/WBE goals of Cook County Government and
did not show proof that Madison exercised good faith efforts to meet the stated goals.
LETTER OF INTENT
The Letter of Intent between the Prime Contractor (Madison) and the MBE/WBE Subcontractor or
Supplier (Valdivia) was submitted blank. The General Conditions, Section GC-52, Section II – Required
Pre-Award Submittals reads as follows: To be responsive, A bidder shall either (1) meet the Project
Specific MBE and WBE goals by submitting with the bid a Utilization Plan, supported by Letter(s) of
Intent and Letter(s) of Certification….Failure to submit the documents in accordance with these
requirements will cause the Bid to be considered non-responsive and shall be cause for the Bid to be
rejected.

 page 33
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE continued
PHARMACY BUILD-OUT (CONTRACT NO. 07-53-562) continued
ITEM #20 cont’d
GOOD FAITH EFFORTS CHECKLIST
Included in all Bid Packages is a Good Faith Efforts Checklist which is used as a guide for bidders to
ensure that they have complied with all areas of the M/WBE compliance portion of the bid. Madison
checked all items on the Good Faith Efforts Checklist and indicated for item number five (5) (“made
efforts to assist interested MBEs and WBEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, or insurance as may be
required for performance of the contract”), while it was checked as a good faith effort; it was “not
applicable.”
The Good Faith Efforts Contacts Log was submitted with the bid. However, Madison did not, at the time
of the bid opening, provide any documentation supporting the purported contacts made in an effort to
meet the M/WBE.
There were three (3) Subcontractors listed on the Good Faith Efforts Log:
•

City Lights: Work solicited was for Electrical. The reason stated in the document as to why
agreement was not reached was indicated as “not enough time to bid project.” The date of
contact was listed on the document as July 7, 2008.

•

Kingdom Community: Work solicited was for Carpentry and Demolition. The reason stated in
the document as to why agreement was not reached was indicated as “not enough time to bid
project.” The date of contact was listed on the document as July 7, 2008.

•

S Mechanic: Work solicited was for HVAC. The reason stated in the document as to why
agreement was not reached was indicated as “not interested.” The date of contact listed on the
document was July 7, 2008.

The Office of Contract Compliance contacted the subcontractors listed on the Contact Log to verify the
reasons included in the document and the following was noted:
Juan Candelaria of City Lights stated they were contacted too late to provide a bid. They were
given two (2) days notice.
John Abercrombie of Kingdom Community did not return call to Office of Contract Compliance.
S Mechanic’s telephone was disconnected. As of today’s date the telephone number listed on the
contact log remains disconnected.
Note: While there were three (3) vendors listed as “Good Faith” there are forty seven (47) vendors listed
in the County’s directory in the area of construction.
The General Conditions Section GC – 52, Section II, bidder must notify MBEs and WBEs of
subcontracting opportunities at least ten (10) business days before submission of the bid. The MBEs listed
on this bid were notified eight (8) business days prior to bid opening, not ten (10) as stated in their letters
(exhibit 2).
On August 21, 2008, the Office of Contract Compliance received via fax, the signed Letter of Intent
between Madison Construction and ERA Valdivia signed and notarized on July 15, 2008. This document
which is to be included at the time of bid opening was received thirty four (34) days after the bid opening.
(see attached letter)
The Office of Contract Compliance’s procedure is not to communicate with bidders our findings until the
Board has voted on the bid. The Office of Contract Compliance may determine a bidder is nonresponsive, however; the Board of Commissioners have the authority to override this recommendation.
Upon award of a contract, we will provide any bidder with reasons as to why their bid was non
responsive.

 page 34
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE continued
PHARMACY BUILD-OUT (CONTRACT NO. 07-53-562) continued
ITEM #20 cont’d
On September 12, 2008, the Office of Contract Compliance having completed the analysis and
investigation of the bid and all documentation received for Contract No. 07-53-562, sent a letter to the
Purchasing Agent indicating Madison Construction as being non-responsive.
Shortly thereafter, on September 17, 2008, Compliance Officer received a telephone call from Martin
McCarthy, Director of Performance Contracting, Madison Construction, requesting a reason as to why
they had been found non-responsive. When Mr. McCarthy was not satisfied with the answer he received,
he proceeded to call the Compliance Administrator, requesting a written explanation as to why their bid
was non-responsive.
The explanation given to Mr. McCarthy was that this Office does not provide a letter to bidders until such
time as a recommendation has been voted upon by the Board of Commissioners.
On September 19, 2008, the Office of Contract Compliance received a letter from Mr. McCarthy of
Madison Construction indicating they were now willing to meet or exceed the MBE/WBE participation
goals. This communication was received after the bid opening, therefore, it could not be considered at
that time. (see attached letter)
On September 22, 2008, Commissioner Gorman’s Administrative Assistant telephoned our office to
speak to the Administrator regarding the Madison file. She was told the Administrator was away from
the office.
As a result of the call from the Commissioner’s Office, Staff of the Office of Contract Compliance
telephoned the Administrator about the request for information on Madison Construction and was
directed to take the file and review it with Commissioner Gorman. When they arrived at Commissioner’s
office, they were told she was not in. My staff however, reviewed the information in the file with
Commissioner Gorman’s staff.
On September 25, 2008, the Administrator telephoned Commissioner Gorman and asked if she had
received the information the staff shared with her staff and whether or not the explanation answered her
concerns. She stated she had received the information; however, she was not satisfied with the
explanation.
On October 15, 2008 at the Cook County Board Meeting, Commissioner Butler provided the
Administrator with a copy of the letter Commissioner Gorman distributed to the County Board Members.
The Administrator had no knowledge of the document prior to Commissioner Butler sharing it.
After reviewing the letter submitted by Madison, it should be noted that attachments Exhibits 1 and 2
which denotes the MBE bidders solicited and supporting letters documenting their good faith efforts,
were received after the bid opening. Please note that they are dated September 24, 2008, well after the
July 17, 2008 bid opening date. These documents were not a part of the bid as required by GC-52, II
paragraph one. We do not concur with Madison's assertion that the Office of Contract Compliance did
not confirm Madison's good faith efforts. As noted above, we made every attempt to do so with the
information that was provided to us at the time of bid submission.
Further, it should be noted that Contract Compliance did not state that Valdivia was not certified to do the
work in the bid package. Our finding was and it was stated, “Valdivia was not certified in the area of
Demolition” as listed on the Utilization Plan, and later listed on the Letter of Intent received thirty four
(34) days late to this office.
In conclusion, the Office of Contract Compliance followed standard operating procedures as it reviewed
the bid response for the “build out of the pharmacy” within the Bureau of Health. It is my hope that this
chronology answers any questions regarding the decision to deem Madison non-responsive. I would be
happy to answer any additional questions that may arise.

 page 35
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #21
WITHDRAWN
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for an annual countywide contract
for the purchase of xerographic paper.
Contract period: February 6, 2009 through February 5, 2010. (various departments-350 Account).
Requisition No. 90300001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.
REPORT
ITEM #22
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
Ref: OMP (Open Market Purchase Order Report)
pursuant to Cook County Code, Section 34-123, the Office of the Purchasing Agent is submitting a report
which indicates the procurement of using agencies for OMP purchase orders that have been released over
$25,000.00 through $99,999.99. This report is for the period of June 25, 2008 through September 18,
2008.
This report is by department number, vendor, and dollar amount, which includes a brief description of the
commodity or service.

BID OPENING - COMMISSIONER COLLINS
ITEM #23
REFERRED TO RESPECTIVE DEPARTMENTS FOR REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION
Submitting for your consideration, bids which were opened under her supervision on Wednesday,
October 22, 2008 at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago, Illinois.
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #24
APPROVED, AS AMENDED
CONTRACT NO. 07-53-562 WITH MADISON CONSTRUCTION WAS WITHDRAWN.
Transmitting contracts and bonds executed by the contractors for approval and execution as requested by
the Purchasing Agent.

 page 36
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
GRANT AWARDS
ITEM #25
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 15, 2008 from
TAKASHI REINBOLD, Director, Department of Revenue
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $50,000.00 from Altria Client Services,
Inc., Richmond, Virginia, on behalf of Phillip Morris USA. The purpose of this grant is to support an
ongoing investigation into activities involving illegal trade in cigarettes, including the sale of counterfeit,
stolen and/or illegally imported cigarettes on which applicable taxes have not been paid.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $50,000.00. Funding period: November 5, 2008 through
November 4, 2009.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
CONTRACT
ITEM #26
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 8, 2008 from
LISA M. WALIK, Director, Department of Risk Management
Re: VISION CARE BENEFITS – EYEMED VISION CARE, LLC
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with EyeMed Vision Care,
Mason, Ohio, to provide eligible Cook County employees and their dependents with a Vision Care
program from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011.
The Request for Proposal (RFP) for Vision Care Benefits was joint initiative by the various municipal
agencies and issued by the Chicago Transit Authority. Six (6) national vision care companies responded
to this Request for Proposal. Based on an extensive financial analysis and overall evaluation of benefits
from the respondents, the Department of Risk Management recommends the selection of EyeMed Vision
Care. EyeMed Vision Care, previously known as Cole Managed Vision, offers the following advantages:
lowest costs for examinations, spectacle lenses, contact and frames; largest provider network in Cook
County with 730 locations; high level of satisfaction for Cook County employees since 1995; responsive
service and ease of administration to covered members; very competitive administrative fee; and a fiveyear rate guarantee for materials and services (three year term, with two one-year renewal options). The
proposal from EyeMed Vision Care includes Minority Business Enterprises (MBE)/Women Business
Enterprises (WBE) direct participation and has been found responsive to the Contract Compliance
guidelines. This will allow Cook County employees to continue to participate in the Vision Care program
as part of the fringe benefit package.
All fees and expenses will be paid from the following accounts:
Corporate/Grant:
Public Safety:
Health Fund:

490-179
499-179
899-179

Estimated Annual Fiscal Impact: $2,900,000.00.
The actual charges for each fund will vary based on the actual monthly utilization.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 and future year funds.

 page 37
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT continued
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #27
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN VOTED “PRESENT”.
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 8, 2008 from
LISA M. WALIK, Director, Department of Risk Management
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend from October 15, 2008 through March 31,
2009, Contract No. 06-41-332 with Aon Consulting, Chicago, Illinois, to provide Cook County
employees with voluntary Universal Life insurance benefits through American General benefits for five
and one-half (5 1/2 months).
Reason:

Due to ongoing financial challenges in today’s economy and developments with American
General’s parent company, AIG, it is necessary to extend this contract to allow time to
analyze the voluntary life insurance benefits offered to County employees in conjunction with
the upcoming labor negotiations.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None – Cost of insurance is paid 100% by employees enrolled in program via
payroll deductions. Contract extension: October 15, 2008 through March 31, 2009.

 page 38
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
ITEM #28
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Chicago Botanic Garden for temporary tent
for the Harvest Ball at 1000 Lake-Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois in Northfield Township, County Board
District #13.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

081276
$1,413.76

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,413.76.
* * * * *
ITEM #29
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit to the Chicago Zoological Society/Brookfield Zoo
for the US Army Corp of Engineers Water Main Project at 3000 South Golf Road, Brookfield, Illinois in
Proviso at 3300 South Golf Road, Brookfield, Illinois in Proviso Township, County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

080994
$8,941.25

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $8,941.25

100% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED
100% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2008 TO PRESENT:
* * * * *

$10,355.01
$510,675.55

 page 39
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #30
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center
Expansion Project, Elevator Modernization at 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois in Proviso
Township, County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (90%):
Amount Due (10%):

072110
$4,126.00
$3,713.40
$412.60

This request is pursuant to the County Board’s adoption of Ordinance No. 91-0-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent (10%) of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $3,713.40.
* * * * *
ITEM #31
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2008 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Peace Memorial Church for temporary
tents and Petting Zoo at 10300 131st Street, Palos Park, Illinois in Palos Township, County Board District
#17.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (90%):
Amount Due (10%):

081331
$2,452.50
$2,207.25
$245.25

This request is pursuant to the County Board’s adoption of Ordinance No. 91-0-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent (10%) of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,207.25.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2008 TO PRESENT:

$5,920.65
$22,645.88

 page 40
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
ITEM #32
REFERRED TO THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON REAL ESTATE & BUSINESS & ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT #297148, AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Acting Superintendent of Highways
requests permission to discuss the following matter with the Real Estate & Business & Economic
Development C Subcommittee, pursuant to the Cook County Code, Sec. 34-127 Sale or Purchase of Real
Estate.
1. Ridgeland Avenue,
Steger Road to Sauk Trail
Section: 00-W3701-02-FP
Parcel 005
In unincorporated Rich Township in County Board District #6
AGREEMENT
ITEM #33
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) AGREEMENT RESOLUTION:
1. Letter of Agreement between the County of Cook and the Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc.
Fracture Critical Members Bridge Inspections
in County Board Districts #5, 6, 11, 16 and 17
Section: 09-6BIST-08-ES
Fiscal Impact: $200,465.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
APPROPRIATING RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #34
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER BEAVERS VOTED “NO”.
Submitting for your approval THREE (3) APPROPRIATING RESOLUTIONS:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Appropriating Resolution
Bridge Inspections Steel Truss - 2009
104th Avenue, Ridgeland Avenue, Crawford Avenue and Francisco Avenue over Calumet Sag
Channel
Central Avenue over the ICG Railroad and over the Sanitary Drainage & Ship Canal (north of I-55)
in the Villages of Alsip and Worth and the City of Palos Heights, unincorporated Palos, Stickney and
Worth Townships
in County Board Districts #5, 6, 11, 16 and 17
Section: 09-6BIST-08-ES
Fiscal Impact: $250,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
2. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Appropriating Resolution
Highway Investigations, Studies and Planning
County Wide
Section: 09-6HISP-33-ES
Fiscal Impact: $2,700,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)

 page 41
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
APPROPRIATING RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #34 cont’d
3.

Motor Fuel Tax Project
Appropriating Resolution
Ashland Avenue, Lake Street to Cortland Street
in the City of Chicago in County Board Districts #1, 8 and 12
Section: 08-W4829-03-EG
Fiscal Impact: $365,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION

ITEM #35
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Milling and resurfacing the existing bituminous pavement, etc.
Dan Ryan Expressway – West Leg, North Frontage Road,
Cicero Avenue to Pulaski Road
in the City of Oak Forest in County Board District #6
Section: 96-06809-03-WR
Centerline Mileage: 1.46 miles
Fiscal Impact: $611,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Original Board approved amount 04-03-96:
This increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$1,100,000.00
611,000.00
$1,711,000.00

On April 3, 1996, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution appropriating
$1,100,000.00 towards completion of this roadway resurfacing project. Additional funding is
required due to expansion of the improvement scope to include full depth patching, construction of
pre-cast concrete box culvert with junction chambers and traffic protection.
COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
ITEM #36
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER BEAVERS VOTED “NO”.
Submitting for your approval NUMBER (1) COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL
RESOLUTION:
1. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Shoe Factory Road,
Kane County Line to Prestbury Drive
in the City of Elgin and the Village of Hoffman Estates in County Board District #15
Section: 03-A6201-01-FP
Final Cost: $3,872,719.62

 page 42
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
CHANGES IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
ITEM #37
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS & BRIDGES
Submitting three (3) changes in plans and extra work:
1. Section: 02-W2222-01-FP. Wolf Road, Plainfield Road to 55th Street in the Villages of Indian Head
Park, Western Springs and unincorporated Cook County in County Board Districts #16 and 17. Final
adjustment of quantities and new items. $4,689.44 (Deduction).
#297149
2. Section: 06-04624-05-BR. Central Avenue Bridge over Sanitary Drainage & Ship Canal in the
Village of Stickney, the Town of Cicero and unincorporated Cook County in County Board District
#16. Adjustment of quantities and new items. $50,496.99 (Deduction).
#297150
3. Section: 03-V6041-11-RP. Roselle Road, Hillcrest Boulevard to Euclid Avenue in the Villages of
Palatine and Schaumburg in County Board Districts #14 and 15. Final adjustment of quantities.
$1,969.35 (Deduction).
#297151
REPORT
ITEM #38
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS & BRIDGES #297152
Submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending September 30, 2008.

 page 43
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
JUDICIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
ITEM #39
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 17, 2008 from
DANIEL J. COUGHLIN, Executive Director, Judicial Advisory Council
approval is hereby requested of the Notice of Grant Agreement between the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA) and the County of Cook. This agreement provides Cook County with
$15,904,525.00 under the Federal Fiscal Year 2008 Urban Area Security Initiative. These funds require
no County match.
This plan has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines established by the United States
Department of Homeland Security. These funds will provide for maintenance of Cook County’s
interoperable wireless data communication system, the continuation of the purchase of equipment,
installation and maintenance of the interoperable radio communication system to be used by emergency
responders throughout Cook County, equipment and supplies for fire, police and emergency management
personnel and supplies and equipment for public health planners and responders.
Permission is hereby requested for the Executive Director of the Judicial Advisory Council to enter into
agreements with the Sheriff, other Cook County agencies, political subdivisions of Cook County and nonprofit agencies with respect to the distribution of these funds and the activities required to implement the
programs funded through the grant.
I respectfully request that the Executive Director of the Cook County Judicial Advisory Council, or his
designee, on behalf of Cook County, be authorized to execute any and all necessary documents to further
the project approval therein, including, but not limited to, the subgrantee agreement and any modification
thereto.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $15,904,525.00. Funding period: September 1, 2008
through December 31, 2010.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents, and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

 page 44
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
REQUEST TO AMEND PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONTRACTS
ITEM #40
DEFERRED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 9, 2008 from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to amend the following item,
which was previously approved at the September 17, 2008 Board Meeting. The transmittal reflects the
(717/009-579 Account) and should be amended to reflect the (717/009-570 Account).
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and underscored language.
Transmitting a Communication from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Cisco Systems, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of network infrastructure hardware and software used to connect
authorized locations to the Cook County Wide Area Network (WAN) to continue the Cook County Jail
Campus Communications infrastructure build out.
Reason:

The scope of work places data communications hardware in the remaining 10 jail divisions
and the administrative/court building. Once completed, high speed data can be transmitted
and received between buildings within the jail campus and the Cook County enterprise
network. It will also support high speed wireless communications access on the campus.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,500,000.00. Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009.
(717/009-579 570 Account). Requisition No. 80090017.
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
* * * * *
ITEM #41
DEFERRED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 9, 2008 from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to amend the following item,
which was previously approved at the September 17, 2008 Board Meeting. The transmittal reflects the
(717/009-579 Account) and should be amended to reflect the (717/009-570 Account).
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and underscored language.
Transmitting a Communication from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Cisco Systems, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of network infrastructure hardware and software used to connect
authorized locations to the Cook County Wide Area Network (WAN) for all the remaining
Commissioners’ District offices.
Reason:

This will reduce telecommunications and computing operating costs. This additional capacity
will also allow the ability to install public safety video surveillance cameras as required.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $238,450.00. Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009.
(717/009-579 570 Account). Requisition No. 80090018.
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 page 45
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
REQUEST TO AMEND PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #42
DEFERRED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 9, 2008 from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to amend the following item,
which was previously approved at the September 17, 2008 Board Meeting. The transmittal reflects the
(717/009-579 Account) and should be amended to reflect the (717/009-570 Account).
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and underscored language.
Transmitting a Communication from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Cisco Systems, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of network infrastructure hardware and software used to connect
authorized locations to the Cook County Wide Area Network (WAN) to replenish depleted inventory of
spare network equipment.
Reason:

This equipment will be used to upgrade, install and in some cases replace older equipment at
all regional courthouses, upgrade the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center's data hardware
infrastructure and expand capacity to multiple locations that currently experience network
congestion.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,500,000.00. Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009.
(717/009-579 570 Account). Requisition No. 80090019.
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 page 46
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ADVERTISE FOR BIDS
ITEM #43
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #297153
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 22, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith is a request for approval to amend Communication No. 292320 which was
previously approved by the Construction Committee on April 8, 2008 and by the full Board in the
Construction Committee Report at the Board Meeting of April 9, 2008.
This request would change the Bond Authority from 33000 Account to the 28000 Account for the project
identified below.
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and underscored language.
292320

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY, by Bruce Washington, Director,
transmitting a Communication, dated January 25, 2008.
Transmitted herewith for your approval is a request for authorization for the Purchasing
Agent to advertise for bids for the Bureau of Health Services, Bid Package #2. The
project includes the build-out of pharmacies at Fantus Clinic, Oak Forest Hospital of
Cook County and Stroger Hospital of Cook County. It is respectfully requested that this
Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This project will require a contractor to obtain all regulatory and construction
permits, and provide all labor, equipment and materials necessary to properly
renovate and build out the pharmacies at three locations. The scope of this
project will require general construction, plumbing and electrical work.

Bond Issue (33000 Account) (28000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
*Referred to the Committee on Construction on 02/20/08.

PROPOSED CHANGE ORDERS
ITEM #44
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #297154
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 22, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 2 in the amount of $64,923.11 to the contract
with Design Installation Systems, Inc., Morton Grove, Illinois, Contractor for the Countywide Exterior
Wall Renovation Project, Building Group I, Bid Package #3 at the 3rd Municipal District Courthouse,
Rolling Meadows, Illinois, 5th Municipal District Courthouse, Bridgeview, Illinois and 6th Municipal
District Courthouse, Markham, Illinois. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this
request.
Reason:

This change order is due to various field conditions and owner requested changes
necessitating additions to the contract. These items include repairing nine collapsed sewer
lines, cracked vent stack, the relocation of a garage door from the basement to the roof and
modification to a backflow preventer which will serve as the building shut-off. Also
included are credits for the concrete and drain repairs.
No additional contract time is required.

 page 47
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY continued
CHANGE ORDERS continued
ITEM #44 cont’d
Contract No. 07-53-158
Original Contract Sum
Total Changes to-date
Amount of this Modification
Adjusted Contract Sum

$ 6,567,713.00
910,179.10
64,923.11
$7,542,815.21

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $64,923.11. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
This project received Board Authority in Fiscal Year 2004 and is categorized as a Building and Life
Safety Project.
* * * * *
ITEM #45
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #297155
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 7, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 1 in the amount of ($68,896.44) a credit to
the contract with All-Bry/Sandsmith Joint Venture, Lemont, Illinois, Contractor for the Countywide
Exterior Wall Renovation Project, Building Group 3, Bid Package C Project. It is respectfully requested
that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order credit is for the variance between unit price quantities and actual
construction quantities.
Contract No. 06-53-666
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$2,593,576.25
0.00
(68,896.44)
$2,524,679.81

Estimated Fiscal Impact: ($68,896.44). Bond Issue (20000 Account).
This project received Board Authority in Fiscal Year 2004 and is categorized as a Building and Life
Safety Project.
* * * * *
ITEM #46
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTRUCTION #297156
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 14, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 4 in the amount of $35,592.92 to the contract
with Castle Construction Corporation, Markham, Illinois, Contractor for the Provident Hospital of Cook
County Emergency Department Waiting Room Renovation Expansion and New Outpatient Pharmacy
Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order is due to various field conditions and owner requested changes
necessitating additions to the contract. These items include a retaining wall, Duress Alarm
Emergency Call System, nine (9) new dry pendant sprinklers, 220V power for payphones,
re-routing for duct work installation, Direct Digital Control (DDC) controls in lieu of
pneumatic controls. Also included are credits for the omission of the fire alarm system and
nurse call as well as punch list items.

 page 48
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY continued
CHANGE ORDERS continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
No additional contract time is required.
Contract No. 05-53-404
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$3,630,000.00
141,319.28
35,592.92
$3,806,912.20

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $35,592.92. Bond Issue (9000 Account).
This project received Board Authority in 2003 and is categorized as a Public Health Project.

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION
LEASE AGREEMENT
ITEM #47
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 14, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the lease agreement covering the lease of space at 9763 West 143rd Street, Orland
Park, Illinois, for the use of Commissioner Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman’s 17th District field office #3.
The legal and budgetary requirements are met in accordance with the Cook County Board ordinances,
relating to district offices. Details are:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Location:
Term:
Space Occupied:

F and T Partnership, LLC
County of Cook for the use of Commissioner Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman
9763 West 143rd Street, Suite E, Orland Park, Illinois 60462
10/1/08 through 11/30/10
Approximately 1,387 square feet

Rent
Monthly:
Annual:
Utilities:

$1,574.25
$18,891.00
Rent is inclusive of utilities with the exception of electricity

Approval recommended.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2008, 2009 and 2010 funds.

 page 49
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

BUREAU OF CAPITAL, PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
TRANSFER OF REAL ESTATE
ITEM #48
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 14, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
On November 6, 2007, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County declared as excess and released for
sale a parcel of County-owned real estate located directly adjacent to the Illinois Medical District
Commission’s building and the Cook County Medical Examiner’s parking lot at 2121 West Harrison in
County Board District #2. The Illinois Medical District Commission has indicated its interest in
acquiring this land to facilitate construction of an addition to their building located at 600 South Hoyne in
Chicago.
The Illinois Medical District Commission has agreed to pay to the County the fair market value of the
parcel, determined by appraisal to be $62,000.00.
Submitted herewith for transmission to the Board of Commissioners is a Resolution authorizing the
transfer of real estate from the County of Cook to the Illinois Medical District Commission. This
transaction is in accordance with the Local Government Property Transfer Act (50 ILCS 605/1 et seq).
Passage of this Resolution is hereby recommended.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Generating Estimate: $62,000.00.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, at its meeting of November 6, 2007, has
declared as excess certain real estate directly adjacent to the Illinois Medical District Commission’s
building and the Cook County Medical Examiner’s parking lot at 2121 West Harrison in Cook County,
and has authorized the sale of such property for no less than the current fair market value determined by
appraisal; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Medical District Commission (the “District”) a body politic and corporate,
which is empowered to acquire and own property within the Illinois Medical District for use and
redevelopment within the District, deems it necessary to use, occupy or improve the said property owned
by the County for the public purposes of the allowance of the Commission to provide build-out of its
office building located at 600 South Hoyne Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the District, pursuant to its Ordinance dated September 30, 2008, has agreed to pay Cook
County the fair cash market value for the Real Estate, based on two appraisals as required by Cook
County Code Section 34-133 and a copy of such proposed Ordinance is submitted hereto as Exhibit A;
and
WHEREAS, based upon such authority and in reliance on the findings of the District’s Ordinance; the
Board adopts this Resolution by a vote of two-thirds or more of its members.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President of the Board, or the Director of the Real
Estate Management Division, are hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the County of
Cook, a Quit Claim Deed in the form submitted hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit B, conveying
the Real Estate to the Illinois Medical District Commission, subject to the covenants, conditions and
restrictions contained therein, and that the President of the Board, the Cook County Comptroller, or the
Director of the Real Estate Management Division are hereby authorized to execute and deliver any and all
other documents or instruments and take any and all steps necessary or desirable to effectuate such
conveyance.

 page 50
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #49
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $50,300.00, Contract No. 07-83-290,
with Quintana Multilingual Solutions International, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for foreign language
interpretation services.
Board approved amount 09-18-07:
Previous increase approved 06-03-08:
Previous increase approved 09-03-08:
This increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$218,929.00
31,700.00
59,475.00
50,300.00
$360,404.00

The increase is necessary because the demand for such services in court proceedings has risen
more than anticipated. These services are currently in the bidding process. The expiration
date of the current contract is December 17, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $50,300.00. (300-260 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.
PURCHASE ORDER ADDENDUM
ITEM #50
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $3,500.00, Open Market Purchase
(OMP) No. 08-45-2014 with Alliance Against Intoxicated Motorists, Schaumburg, Illinois, to conduct
victim impact panels.
Original OMP amount issued 07-01-08:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$25,200.00
3,500.00
$28,700.00

The increase in necessary to fund five (5) additional victim impact panels, to be conducted in
Spanish. The expiration date of the current contract is June 30, 2009.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $3,500.00. (541-260 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the Social Service/Probation and Court Services Fund.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT
CONTRACT
ITEM #51
DEFERRED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with McDermott Center,
Chicago, Illinois, for substance abuse services for female probationers under the supervision of the Adult
Probation Department.

 page 51
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT continued
CONTRACT continued
ITEM #51 cont’d
Reason:

McDermott Center was selected for participation in the program through a Request for
Proposal (RFP) process completed this year.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $318,944.00 [$54,721.00 - (532-818 Account); $100,061.00 - (532-272
Account); $164,162.00 - (823-260 Account)]. Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30,
2009. Requisition Nos. 95324001 and 98230801.
Sufficient funds are available through the Adult Probation/Probation Service Fee Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

CONTRACT ADDENDA
ITEM #52
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for one (1) year, Contract No. 08-41-133 with
Heartland Health Outreach, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, to provide services to the Mental Health Court
treatment program, Circuit Court of Cook County.
Reason:

The contract has been extended to conform with the related grant. Heartland Health
Outreach, Inc. was initially selected in 2007 as an essential element of the grant program.
Approximately $57,956.00 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current
contract was September 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009.
* * * * *
ITEM #53
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for one (1) year, Contract No. 08-41-128 with
Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, to provide services to the Mental
Health Treatment Court program, Circuit Court of Cook County.
Reason:

The contract has been extended to conform with the related grant. Treatment Alternatives for
Safe Communities, Inc. was initially selected in 2007 as an essential element of the grant
program. Approximately $93,955.68 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the
current contract was September 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2009.

 page 52
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUVENILE PROBATION AND COURT SERVICES DEPARTMENT
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #54
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $51,456.70 and extend for six (6)
months, Contract No. 04-45-837 with Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities, Inc., Chicago,
Illinois, for services to provide initial screening, assessment, diagnostic services, and substance abuse
testing for minors considered for acceptance in the Juvenile Drug Treatment Court Program.
Board approved amount 06-06-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$ 74,495.00
51,456.70
$125,951.70

This extension is necessary to provide the continuation of these services during a Request for
Proposal (RFP) process. The expiration date of the current contract was September 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $51,456.70. Contract extension: October 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009.
(326-298 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

 page 53
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #55
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $25,400.00 and extend from October 5,
2008 through February 28, 2009, Contract No. 07-84-320 with Advantage Microfilm Services, Inc., Lake
in the Hills, Illinois, for maintenance of micrographics equipment.
Board approved amount 09-18-07:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$64,200.00
25,400.00
$89,600.00

The increase and extension is necessary due to contract currently being rebid. The expiration
date of the current contract was October 4, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $25,400.00. Contract extension: October 5, 2008 through February 28, 2009.
(529-441 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Document Storage Fund.

 page 54
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK
REQUEST TO RECONSIDER AND APPROVE AS AMENDED
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS RECOMMENDATIONS FOR VARIATIONS
ITEM #56
RECONSIDERED AND APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 17, 2008 from
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
by
JOY CAROL WYKOWSKI, Deputy Clerk of the Board
requesting that the Cook County Board of Commissioners reconsider and approve as amended the
following item (Comm. No. 296763), which was previously approved on the Zoning & Building Agenda
(Page 1) at the October 15, 2008 meeting. The communication jacket as prepared by the Clerk of the
Board was processed that the application be granted, when it should have been processed that the
application be denied.
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and underscored language.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS RECOMMENDATIONS FOR VARIATIONS
296763

DOCKET #8474 – B. NACKER, Owner, Application (No. V-08-88): Variation to reduce left
side yard setback from 15 feet to 5 feet for a proposed detached garage in the R-3 Single
Family Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.94 of an acre,
located on the east side of Baltic Circle, approximately 132 feet west of Derby Road in
Lemont Township, County Board District #17. Recommendation: That the application be
granted denied.
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
ITEM #57
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #297157
JOURNAL
(October 1, 2008)
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk presented in printed form a record of the Journal of the Proceedings of
the meeting held on Wednesday, October 1, 2008.

PROPOSED CONTRACTS
ITEM #58
DEFERRED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
by
CLEM BALANOFF, Deputy County Clerk
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Pickens-Kane Moving and
Storage Company, Chicago, Illinois, for the moving of election equipment and materials for a total of six
(6) Cook County elections in the years 2009, 2010 and 2011.

 page 55
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #58 cont’d
Reason:

A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for these services via the Cook County website.
Pickens-Kane has met the qualifications and has experience to perform the services requested.
Pickens-Kane has demonstrated the technical skills to perform the complicated logistical
requirements to 1) move secure voting equipment from up to 50 early voting sites at the same
time on the closing day of early voting; 2) stage, pick up and deliver 2400 5’x 6’, 800-pound
voting supply carriers to 1700 polling places in less than a week; 3) pick up 2400 Election
Judge packets and deliver on the same day within a short timeframe; 4) pick up and deliver
election voting equipment and supplies to as many as 175 nursing homes 5 days prior to the
election and pick and return secured packages prior to election day; 5) pick up and deliver
2400 last-minute “eligible voters” lists to 2400 precincts by 6:00 am on election day; 6) pick
up equipment and supplies from 19 Remote Distribution Centers across the county and deliver
to the Hawthorne Distribution Center at the end of the day on election day; 7) have stand-by
crews ready at the Hawthorne Distribution Center to deploy replacement voting equipment on
election day; and 8) pick up 2400 voting supply carriers from 1700 polling places for
delivery back to the Hawthorne Distribution Center within a week after the election.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $3,676,824.00 [FY 2009 - $984,248.00; FY 2010 - $1,686,616.00; and FY 2011 $1,005,960.00]. Contract period: November 15, 2008 through May 1, 2011. (524-430 Account).
Requisition Nos. 95240006, 10524004 and 11524001.
Sufficient funds are available in the County Clerk’s Election Division Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
* * * * *
ITEM #59
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
by
CLEM BALANOFF, Deputy County Clerk
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Graphic Purchasing
Solutions, LLC, Northbrook, Illinois, for printing of envelopes and posters for February and April 2009
elections.
Reason:

A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for these services via the Cook County website.
Graphic Purchasing Solutions, LLC has met the qualifications and has experience to perform
the services requested.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $137,500.00. Contract period: November 15, 2008 through November 30,
2009. (524-240 Account). Requisition No. 85240029.
Sufficient funds are available in the County Clerk’s Election Division Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
* * * * *

 page 56
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK continued
CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #60
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
by
CLEM BALANOFF, Deputy County Clerk
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Michael Kreloff,
Glenview, Illinois, for policy, planning and intergovernmental affairs consulting services.
Reason:

A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for these services via the Cook County website.
Michael Kreloff has met the qualifications and has experience to perform the services
requested which requires extensive experience in election law on the county, state and federal
level.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $108,000.00 (FY 2008 - $54,000.00; and FY 2009 - $54,000.00 per year).
Contract period: November 15, 2008 through November 30 January 31, 2011. (524-260 Account).
Requisition No. 85240077.
Sufficient funds are available in the County Clerk’s Election Division Fund.

 page 57
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
CONTRACTS
ITEM #61
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #297158, AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Motorola, Inc.,
Schaumburg, Illinois, for radio system maintenance for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office, Cook County
State’s Attorney, Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Adult Probation Department,
Department of Facilities Management, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, Cermak Health Services of
Cook County, and Cook County Forest Preserve District.
Reason:

Motorola, Inc. is the only vendor capable of servicing all portable and mobile radios and
ancillary equipment; including the dispatch consoles at the E911 Center in Des Plaines,
mobile data terminals, fixed equipment, and the trunked radio system infrastructure which
includes highly proprietary technology.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $4,953,842.13 ($1,651,280.71 per year). Contract period: December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2011. (211-449 Account). Requisition No. 92110001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009, 2010 and 2011 and future year funds.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with this recommendation.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #62
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Court Services Imprest Cash Fund, at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Court Services Imprest Cash Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:

 page 58
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #62 cont’d
1.
2.
3.
4.

Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert
Sean Heffernan
Kevin Connelly

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore to be signatories shall be deleted:
1.
2.

Lillian Walker
Dave Devane

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *
ITEM #63
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 24, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Sheriff’s Imprest Cash Fund, Escrow/Fee Account, Municipal Division General Fund and Municipal
Division Eviction A accounts at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Sheriff’s Imprest Cash Fund, Escrow/Fee
Account, Municipal Division General Fund and Municipal Division Eviction A Accounts; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Thomas J. Dart
Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert
Jill McArdle

 page 59
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #63 cont’d
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *
ITEM #64
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Boot Camp Imprest Cash Fund, at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Boot Camp Imprest Cash Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert
John Harrington
Lucy March
Frank Johnson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *

 page 60
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #65
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 24, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Child Support Enforcement Division Account, at Bank of America.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Bank of
America for the following purposes, be updated for the Child Support Enforcement Division Bank
Account; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.

Thomas J. Dart
Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *
ITEM #66
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 24, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Women Justice Services Imprest Cash Fund, at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.

 page 61
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #66 cont’d
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Women’s Justice Services Imprest Cash
Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Thomas J. Dart
Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert
Terrie L. McDermott
Deborah A. Ryan
Karen Moran

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
* * * * *
ITEM #67
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 23, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ZELDA MARTIN WHITTLER, Undersheriff
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
DCSI Imprest Cash Fund, at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.

 page 62
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #67 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings accounts at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Community Supervision
and Intervention (DCSI) Imprest Cash Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Alexis A. Herrera
Sojourner Colbert
David Devane
Thomas Tansey
Karen Moran

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
(SHERIFF'S) DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #68
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 22, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $8,700.00 to RLP Consulting, Carol Stream, Illinois.
Robert Perkins of RLP Consulting is a consultant to the Sheriff’s Department of Corrections and is
assisting in the migration from our existing HP 3000 based system to a new WINTEL MSSQL based
version of Correctional Management software.
Reason:

Robert Perkins was asked on several occasions to correct emergency issues with the existing
HP system, and his work exceeded the number of hours allocated on the purchase order. We
are, therefore, requesting approval for a payment only to compensate Mr. Perkins for the
additional hours that he devoted to stabilizing the existing system.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $8,700.00. (239-260 Account).

 page 63
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN'S JUSTICE SERVICES
CONTRACT
ITEM #69
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
TERRIE McDERMOTT, Executive Director, Department of Women’s Justice Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Salina & Associates, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois, to provide mental health services to female detainees in the Sheriff’s Female Furlough
Program (SFFP) and Drug Treatment Program (DTP).
Reason:

The Sheriff’s Office conducted and Request for Proposal (RFP) in which Salina & Associates,
Inc. was the only responding vendor. In that this vendor meets all the requirements set forth
in the RFP we are requesting this contract is awarded for one (1) year with two (2) one 1-year
extensions.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $229,460.00. Contract period: November 17, 2008 through November 16,
2009. (212-298 Account). Requisition No. 82120023.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year 2009 funds.

 page 64
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
ITEM #70
REFERRED TO THE LITIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 14, 2008 from
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. Rodney McKinney v. Cook County, Case No. 07-C-1485
#297159
2. Carl Smith v. Cermak, Case No. 05-C-1264
#297160
3. Bing Tie, ALS No. 08-0397
#297161
4. Antonia Diaz v. Cook County, Case No. 08-L-6051
#297162
5. Charocka Coleman, Administrator of the Estate of Arlin McClendon, Jr. v. Thomas Dart, Sheriff of
Cook County and Frank Hondras, Case No. 05-L-10857
#297163

 page 65
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of November 5, 2008

MISCELLANEOUS
PRESENTATION OF PROPOSED PROGRAM AND BUDGET
FOR THE YEAR 2009 - CTA
ITEM #71
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 15, 2008 from
CAROLE L. BROWN, Chairman, Chicago Transit Authority
in accordance with Section 34 of the Metropolitan Transit Authority Act (Ch. 111-2/3, Section 334,
Illinois Revised Statutes), the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) is required to present its proposed Budget
and Program fro 2009 to the Cook County Board prior to its submission to the Regional Transportation
Authority.
CTA would like to make its presentation at the meeting scheduled for Wednesday, November 5, 2008.

PRESENTATION OF PROPOSED PROGRAM AND BUDGET
FOR THE YEAR 2009 - METRA
ITEM #72
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated October 2, 2008 from
NOE GALLARDO, Community Affairs, Metra
this letter is to request that Metra be placed on the Cook County Board of Commissioners Wednesday,
November 5, 2008, 10:00 a.m. meeting agenda for the purpose of presenting the Fiscal Year 2009
Program and Budget.

PRESENTATION OF PROPOSED PROGRAM AND BUDGET
FOR THE YEAR 2009 - PACE
ITEM #73
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 15, 2008 from
LEONDRIA BLACKMAN, Government Affairs, Pace
this letter is to request that Pace be placed on the agenda at the Cook County Board Meeting of November
5, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. to present Pace’s Operational Plan and Capital Plan for 2009-2010.

 