Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Contract Compliance Committee
Wednesday, June 29, 2016

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time
for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes;
the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is
germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-0295
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/22/2016

16-0189
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5B SUBDIVISION II CONSTRUCTION ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 5 Minority - And Women Owned Business
Enterprises, Section 5b (O) - Subdivision II Construction Ordinance of the Forest Preserve District of

 Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Title 1 - Administrative
Chapter 8 - District Finances
Section 5 - Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises
Section 5b - Subdivision II Construction Ordinance
***
(O) Program Review and Sunset.
1. The President and the Board of Commissioners shall receive quarterly and annual reports from
the CCA detailing the District's performance under the Program.
2. The President and the Board of Commissioners will review these reports, including the Annual
Participation Goals and the County's District’s progress towards meeting those Goals and
eliminating discrimination in its contracting activities and marketplace.
3. Within five (5) years after the effective date of this ordinance, t The District will periodically
review the operation of the Program and the evidentiary basis for the Program in order to
determine whether the District has a continuing compelling interest in remedying discrimination
against MBEs and WBEs in its construction marketplace, and the permissible scope of any
narrowly tailored remedies to redress discrimination against MBEs or WBEs so that the District
will not function as a passive participant in a discriminatory marketplace.
***
4. This subdivision shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

16-0204
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5 MINORITY - AND WOMEN - OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 5 Minority - And Women - Owned Business
Enterprises, Section 5A - Subdivision I (R) - General Provisions of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County is hereby amended as Follows:
Title 1 - Administrative
Chapter 8 - District Finances
Section 5 - Minority - And Women - Owned Business Enterprises
Section 5A - Subdivision I - General Provisions
***
(R.) Review and Sunset
Page 2 of 3

 1. On or before the sunset date of this Ordinance, t The District shall periodically review new
evidence to determine whether it has a compelling interest in continuing narrowly tailored
remedies to redress discrimination against M/WBEs so that the District will not function as a
passive participant in a discriminatory marketplace.
2. This Ordinance shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

______________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Steele
Silvestri
Arroyo, Butler, Garcia, Moore, Murphy, Sims and Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

 