POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners

County Board Room, County Building

Wednesday, March 13, 2008, 11:00 A.M.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins,
Daley, Goslin, Gorman, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers, Maldonado, Moreno and Murphy (4)

(Matters referred to Committee are available from the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners)

 SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Thursday, March 13, 2008, 11:00 A.M.
****************************
CALL OF THE MEETING
ITEM #1
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Butler, Collins, Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin,
Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin - 13.

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy - 4.

Roll Call.
PRESIDENT’S APPOINTMENT
ITEM #2
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby appoint Elonzo W. Hill to the Metra Board of Directors, for a term to begin April 1, 2008 and
expire on March 31, 2013 2012.
I submit this communication for your approval.
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #3
APPROVED
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the Resolution for the Levy of Taxes
for the Fiscal Year 2008 be approved and adopted. Commissioner Daley called for a Roll Call, the vote
of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON THE MOTION TO APPROVE
Yeas:

Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele, Suffredin - 12.

Nays:

None.

Present:

None.

Absent:

Beavers, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica - 5.

The motion to approve CARRIED and the Resolution was APPROVED AND ADOPTED.
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner
Your Committee on Finance has considered and reviewed the subject of the Annual Levy of Taxes for the
Fiscal Year A.D., 2008, together with the several sums necessary to be levied to meet the needs and
requirements of the County of Cook for that period.
The Committee, therefore, requests your careful consideration and examination of the “Resolution for the
Levy of Taxes for the Fiscal Year A.D., 2008,” submitted herewith, and further recommends its adoption
and passage by the Board of Commissioners.

 Page 3
SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of March 13, 2008
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
FOR THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2008
WHEREAS, the Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, has
considered the subject of the Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D., 2008, and the several sums
necessary to be levied to meet the needs and requirements of the County of Cook for said fiscal year, and
has recommended that this Resolution for the Levy of Taxes be adopted, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, approved, passed, and adopted the
Annual Appropriation Bill of the County of Cook, for its Fiscal Year 2008, and which said Appropriation
Bill is hereinafter set forth, together with an additional marginal column therein captioned: "AMOUNTS
OF APPROPRIATIONS PAYABLE FROM THE TAX LEVY".
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that the sum of $720,483,542 which is to be collected from the
Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D. 2008 of the County of Cook for the Corporate Fund purposes
of said County, and for the Public Safety Fund purposes of said County, and for the Health Program Fund
purposes of said County, and for the payment of principal and interest on general obligation bonds of said
County, and for Cook County Employees Annuity and Benefit Fund, and for the Election Fund: said sum
being the total amount of appropriations heretofore legally made and contained in the Annual
Appropriation Bill (hereinafter set forth in the Resolution) for the Fiscal Year 2008 duly adopted by the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County, on Friday, February 29, 2008, at a meeting convened on
February 29, 2008 be and said sum of $720,483,542 is hereby levied on and upon all taxable property in
the said County of Cook for the current Fiscal Year 2008. The specific amounts herein levied for the
various purposes heretofore named are stated in this Resolution, and Tax Levy, by being listed and
itemized in the separate columns captioned: "AMOUNTS OF APPROPRIATION PAYABLE FROM
THE TAX LEVY." The tax hereby levied for said Fiscal Year 2008 for said appropriations, to be
collected from this Levy, being the aforesaid total, consists of the following specific amount levied for the
various purposes hereinafter set forth:
Corporate Purposes Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Corporate Purposes Fund
Public Safety Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Public Safety Fund
County Health Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total County Health Fund
Bond and Interest Funds
County Employees Annuity & Benefit Fund
Election Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Election Fund
Total Tax Levy

$ 12,169,835
376,387
12,546,222
176,763,502
5,466,912
182,230,414
144,388,125
4,465,612
148,853,737
212,729,169
120,124,000
42,680,000
1,320,000
$ 44,000,000
$ 720,483,542

Commissioner Daley requested that the following letter be made a part of the record.
LETTER
Transmitting a Communication, dated March 10, 2008 from
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
The County Board completed the appropriation phase of the 2008 Fiscal Year Budget,
passing its Annual Appropriation Bill on February 29, 2008. The next statutory step in
the annual budget process requires that the County Board determine the amount of
property taxes to be levied for all purposes prior to the third Monday in March. 35 ILCS
200/18-10. To that end, the County Board has scheduled a meeting for the purpose of
adopting its 2008 property tax levy on Thursday, March 13, 2008.

 Page 4
SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of March 13, 2008
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
The property tax levy provides a substantial portion of the County’s annual revenues.
Failure to timely comply with the mandatory statutory timetable noted above, places the
levy at legal risk and invites tax objections which threaten this vital source of government
funding. For these reasons, we respectfully advise that the County Board proceed to
adopt its 2008 property tax levy without delay.
*****
ITEM #4
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated March 4, 2008 from
JOSEPH M. FRATTO, County Comptroller
Transmitted herewith for your consideration is a Resolution providing for the transfer of working cash
funds for the Fiscal Year 2008.
The Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution along with this resolution will allow for the maintenance of an
estimated $233.7 million in the County’s consolidated working cash fund and the ability to utilize
working cash funds while awaiting distribution of the first and second installment of real estate tax
collections. The working cash funds will be repaid through Fiscal Year 2008 in accordance with the past
practices.
Your approval of this Resolution is recommended.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION providing for a Working Cash Fund of the County of
Cook and for transfers therefrom for the fiscal year 2008
PREAMBLES
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois provides
that "a County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the County...(is) a Home
Rule Unit" and The County of Cook, Illinois (the "County"), has a Chief Executive Officer elected by
the electors of the County and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the powers granted by said
Section 6(a) of Article VII of said Constitution of 1970, exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the County maintains the Corporate, Public Safety, Health Facilities and Election
Funds as independent, self-balancing funds for accounting purposes; and
WHEREAS, the County has previously established separate Working Cash Funds for Corporate,
Public Safety, Health Facilities and Election Fund purposes; and
WHEREAS, all taxes and other receipts in support of Corporate, Public Safety, Health Facilities
and Election Fund purposes are paid into a single account, the County's "A" account; and
WHEREAS, the County has therefore determined that it is possible to consolidate its Working
Cash Funds while maintaining the accounting integrity of the Corporate, Public Safety, Health Facilities
and Election Funds; and
WHEREAS, the County has determined it to be more efficient and to require less borrowing to
manage its cash on the basis of a consolidated Working Cash Fund; and

 Page 5
SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of March 13, 2008
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #4 cont’d
WHEREAS, it becomes necessary from time to time to borrow from a Working Cash Fund to
meet ordinary and contingent expenses of the Corporate, Public Safety, Health Facilities and Election
Funds of the County for cash flow needs in anticipation of settlement of various accounts receivable,
including property taxes; and
WHEREAS, it shall be the policy of Cook County to repay all loans to the Corporate, Public
Safety, Health Facilities and Election Funds from any Working Cash Fund from any and all available
funds prior to the end of the fiscal year during which the loan or loans were made; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill for Fiscal Year 2008 for Cook County, Section 18,
establishes a limit of $233.7 million for the Working Cash Funds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AND IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, Illinois, as follows:
Section 1. Incorporation of Preambles. The Board hereby finds that all of the recitals contained
in the preambles to this Resolution are full, true, and correct and does hereby incorporate them into this
Resolution by this reference.
Section 2. Authorization. There is hereby created a single, consolidated Working Cash Fund in
the amount of $233.7 million to be used for the purposes described above.
Section 3. Transfer of Funds by the Treasurer. The Treasurer of Cook County is hereby
directed to consolidate all balances in the County's various Working Cash Funds, and to make available
all remaining sums, not to exceed $233.7 million, for 2008 cash flow borrowing needs to be transferred
from time to time.
Section 4. Transfer of Funds by the Comptroller. The Comptroller is hereby directed to
transfer to the Treasurer from any and all available funds, the full aggregate amount borrowed there from
prior to November 30, 2008.
Section 5. Filing of the Resolution. The Board hereby directs the Clerk of the County to file a
certified copy of this Resolution with the Treasurer of the County and the Treasurer is hereby directed to
cause the transfer of moneys as provided by, and for the purpose set forth, in this Resolution.
Section 6. Severability. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Resolution shall be held to
be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.
Section 7. Repealer. All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
Section 8. Constitutional Power of the County. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to the
constitutional powers of the County as a home rule unit notwithstanding any provisions of the Illinois
Revised Statutes to the contrary.
Section 9. Effective Date. The Board finds and determines that this resolution shall be in full
force and effect for the fiscal year 2008, December 1, 2007 through November 30, 2008.
*****
ITEM #5
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated March 4, 2008 from
JOSEPH M. FRATTO, County Comptroller
Transmitted herewith for your consideration is a Resolution providing for the transfer of $34,500,000.00
from the County’s Motor Fuel Tax Fund to the County’s Public Safety Fund for the Fiscal Year 2008.
Your approval of this Resolution is recommended.

 Page 6
SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of March 13, 2008
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION providing for the transfer of funds from the
Motor Fuel Tax Fund of The County of Cook, Illinois to the Public
Safety Fund of The County of Cook, Illinois.
PREAMBLES
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois provides that a
"County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the County ... (is) a Home Rule
Unit" and The County of Cook, Illinois (the "County") has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the
electors of the County and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the powers granted by said
Section 6(a) of Article VII of said Constitution of 1970, exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the County has previously established a Motor Fuel Tax Fund of the County (the "Motor
Fuel Tax Fund"); and
WHEREAS, Article 5, Division 7, Section 5-701.10 of the Illinois Highway Code, as amended (605
ILCS 5/5-701.10 (1993)), authorizes the County to use any motor fuel tax money allotted to the County
for the purpose of paying any and all expenditures resulting from activities conducted by the circuit court
located in the County and for the further purpose of paying any and all expenditures resulting from the
activities of any County department which has a relation to highways located within the County; and
WHEREAS, moneys existing in the Motor Fuel Tax Fund may be used to pay any and all expenditures
resulting from the activities conducted by the circuit court located in the County and for the further
purpose of paying any and all expenditures resulting from the activities of any County department which
has a relation to highways located within the County by transferring such moneys, in whole or in part, to
the Public Safety Fund of the County (the "Public Safety Fund"); and
WHEREAS, moneys will be available in the Motor Fuel Tax Fund for transfer to the Public Safety Fund
during the Fiscal Year 2008; and
WHEREAS, the County has determined it to be in its best interest to transfer $34,500,000 from the
Motor Fuel Tax Fund to the Public Safety Fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AND IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of
The County of Cook, Illinois, as follows:
Section 1. Incorporation of Preambles. The Board hereby finds that all of the recitals contained in the
preambles to this Resolution are full, true, and correct and does hereby incorporate them into this
Resolution by this reference.
Section 2. Authorization. It is hereby found and determined that the Board has been authorized by law
to transfer a sum of $34,500,000 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund to the Public Safety Fund.
Section 3. Transfer of Funds. The Treasurer of the County is hereby directed to transfer from the
Motor Fuel Tax Fund a sum of $34,500,000 which amount is to be placed to the credit of the Public
Safety Fund for expenditures resulting from activities conducted by the circuit court of the County and for
highway related County department expenditures for the Fiscal Year 2008.
Section 4. Filing of the Resolution. The Board hereby directs the Clerk of the County to file a certified
copy of this Resolution with the Treasurer of the County and the Treasurer is hereby directed to cause the
transfer of moneys as provided by, and for the purpose set forth, in this Resolution.
Section 5. Severability. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Resolution shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.

 Page 7
SPECIAL POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Special Meeting of March 13, 2008
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
Section 6. Repealer. All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
Section 7. Constitutional Power of the County. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to the
constitutional powers of the County as a home rule unit notwithstanding any provisions of the Illinois
Revised Statutes to the contrary.
Section 8. Effective Date. The Board hereby finds that this Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage by the Board and approval by the President of the Board.

SECOND SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT
ITEM #6
DEFERRED
Second Semi-Annual Report of the Compliance Administrator, Julia M. Nowicki.

ADJOURNMENT
ITEM #7
APPROVED
Motion to adjourn.

 