STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 5, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board (present in the Board's Springfield office, participated by telephone-conference); Jessica
Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members. Philip M. Kazanjian and
Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD SEPTEMBER 14, 2010

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the September 14, 2010 meeting. Member
Washington moved to approve the minutes. Member Kimbrough seconded. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from September 1 through September 30, 2010. He distributed the
report to the Board and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-10-014
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Kehoe's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept
Counsel Kazanjian's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-10-007
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions
to ALJ Harvey's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's decision. After the Board
discussed the ALJ's result and agreed on certain modifications thereto, Member Coli moved to accept
the ALJ's decision, with the modifications as agreed. Member Washington seconded the motion, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and
the disbursement record. In addition, he presented a budget report regarding the agency's court reporting
expense. He also distributed and discussed an update from the Office of Management and Budget,
regarding the Governor's Administrative Order No. 4. The Board then discussed the various reports and
updates at length, and raised certain questions regarding them. Executive Director Brosnan addressed
all the questions. Thereafter, Chairman Zimmerman and Executive Director Brosnan summarized a
recent meeting they had with the Governor's staff, regarding the agency's legislative initiatives. After a
short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it
was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of November, 2010.

2

 