REPORT OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION

October 1, 2013

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

?Ladies -- -- 

Your Finance Subcommittee on Litigation of the Board of Commissioners met pursuant to notice on
Tuesday, October 1, 2013 at 1 1:00 am. in the County Building, Room 569, Chicago, Illinois.

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE:

Present: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Fritchey and Commissioners Collins,
Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer (1)

Also Present: Commissioners Garcia, Reyes and Steele; Laura Lechowicz Felicione Special
Legal Counsel to the President; Patrick Driseoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney
and Chief, Civil Actions Bureau; James Pullos Assistant State?s Attorney;
Nicholas Scouffas Assistant General Counsel for the Of?ce of the Sheriff;
Robert T. Shannon Attorney at Law, Hinshaw Culbertson LLP

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Receive and File the
Litigation Subcommittee Status Report. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to enter into Executive
Session. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to return to Regular
Session. The motion carried.

Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to enter into
Executive Session. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to return to Regular
Session. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce in the matter of FJ Kerrigan v. JSL Masonry,
Case No. 11 CH 21812. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce in the matter of William Burruss, et al. v. Sheriff,
Case No. 08 6621. The motion carried.

FINANCE SUBCOIVIMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 2

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Receive and File the
status update in the matter of Michael Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, Case No. 69 2145. The
motion carried.

COMMUNICATION NUMBER 324536

SUBSTITUTE PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
PETER SILVESTERI AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR SPECIAL ATTORNEYS AND
WW8

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV, Of?cers and Employees, Division 9, State?s Attorney, Subdivision 2, Cook
County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys Section 2-3311m of the
Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:

Subdivision 2. Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys anthher?Gentraet
Attorneys:
Section 2-331.

a) Short Title. This subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Guidelines
for Special State?s Attorneys and?Gdier?Gontraet?Attemeys:

b) Purpose. In the event that the Cook County State?s Attorney is sick, absent, unable to attend
to a case or has an interest in a case, a Special State?s Attorney can be appointed by a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3 -9008. The appointment of any Special State?s
Attorney is considered temporary and limited in scope to the instant matter before the

 

c) De?nitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

Appointed Attorney is an attorney whe?has?been appointed by a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-

9008 and who has fully complied with theN Notice Provision contained in Sec 2- 332 of
this ordinance.

 

Litigation Subcommittee or ?subcommittee? means the Finance Subcommittee on
Litigation of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.



 

OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 3

Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee or ?Chair means the chairperson of the Finance
Subcommittee on Litigation of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Case Summary means the report prepared by the Appeinted?er?Genttaet?Attomey and
submitted to the Litigation Subcommittee that updates the Litigation Subcommittee on

the progress and status of the case assigned to the Appeinted Attorney erLGentraet
-
Case Management means the regular documentation of the Appointed?eFGenttaet

Attorneys? work on an individual case, including but not limited to a Case Budget 
applicable), Case Summary, modi?cations and Quarterly Status Reports.

Case Budget means the estimate of legal fees and

expenses through the time of judgment or other completion including costs associated
with the use of third-party vendors.

Modi?cation of Approved Case Summary means the required report made within ?ve (5)
business days to the Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee of any major deviations to the
budget that would signi?cantly expand the planned activities set forth in the Case
Summary.

Quarterly Status Reports means the written reports that update the status of the case,
made in writing and submitted to the Chair of the Subcommittee on Litigation at least
four times annually.

Applicability. This Ordinance shall apply to all Attorneys+ appointed as Cook County
Special State?s Attorneys by a court of competent jurisdiction, pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3 -9008 t_o
Epresent the county or a county of?ce, of?cer, board. commission. enmloyee audlor agent.

 

e?ptowdeauepre. 

  
 

 

theaGeeleC?eun?LGede:
@All attorneys who represent a Cook County party in multiple litigation matters as an
Appointed must comply fully with the terms of this

ordinance for each separate matter of representation.

attorney may file an appearance in a lawsuit on behall: of an elected of?cial of Cook
County CAT. County Of?ce unless they are appointed as a Special State?s Attorney by a courtgf
competent jurisdiction or_ have been authorized by the Of?ceof the Cook County State?s Attorney
to ?le an appearance.

Sec. 2-332. Notice.

. Enticcs of a motion seeking a Special State?s Attorney appointment
shall be provided at__l__e_ast forty-eight [43)_hours in advance to Cook courtesy copies
isaid Noticesand Motions seeking Special State?s Attorney appointment shall also?
provided at least forty-eight M8) hours in advanceo?he motion being heardto??liic?~
the Civil Actions Bureau. the Chair of the Litigation Suhconunittce and the President oftlie
Coung Board. Within forty-eight (48) hours of appointment by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all Appointed Attorneys shall provide written notice to the Chair the President

 

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEEUN LITIGATION 
OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 4

of the County Board and the Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook County State?s
Attomey?s Office of their appointment by the a Gcourt of competent iurisdiction. The Chief
of the Civil Actions Bureau shall send a copy of this ordinance to each Appeinteti?Attomey
and advise them of the County?s request that they comply with the Cook County Guidelines
for Special State?s Attorneys eiLetheiLGenneet?A-ttorneya.

 

la) 

. 
I I

     

 

Sec. 2-333. Case Management.

a) Case Management. Each Appei?nted Attorney er?Gt-mtraet?Atterneyewho has ?led an appearance
on behalf of Cook County:

1) Shall submit a Case Budget and a Case Summary to the County Board through its Litigation
Subcommittee 'within 30 days of thei_r Appointment or as soon
thereafter as the Subcommittee meets. This information and other communications between
the ApiaeintedrAttomey erJGeatraet?Atterney and the Board or Subcommittee shall constitute
privileged and con?dential attorney-client communications. unless there is a con?ict of
interests in disciosing that information or communication between the represented pally and
the Cook County Board of Commissioners;





     

 

2)4}Shall include in the Case Summary the major activities anticipated for the successful
defense or prosecution of the case. The Case Summary shall also include estimates of
potential liability, whether the case is appropriate for settlement, and the assessment of the
probable outcome of litigation; and

report any modifications or deviations to the initial Case Summary in quarterly
reports to the Chair.


OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 5

b) Review and Approval of Case Summary and Budget. The Subcommittee shall review and approve
the Case Summary and Budget. The Appointed Attorney er?Gontraet?Att-emey is not prohibited

from initiating legal activities reasonably necessary to adequately protect the legal interests of
their client prior to the Committee?s approval of the Case Summary and Budget. Special State?s
Attorneys appointed in criminal matters shall not be required to submit a Case Summary to the

Lil i gation _Subcommittee.

Idaheeourt?d eteHniaHhat?an?expa tiem?is

     

      
 

- I 

 

?96) Estimated Case Budget. The budget shall include an estimate of legal fees and expenses
through the time of judgment or other completion and shall allocate the fees and expenses
associated with each phase. Shouldthe court determine that an expansion ot'the representation is
necessary that substantially increases the Case budget. the Attorney shall inform the Chair who
may provide the court with information on the ?nancial impact of that expansiol't on the County.
pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-9008. 

eleejection of Attorneys who have Filed an Appearance on Behalf of Cook County in Federal
or Circuit Court without Being Appointed as a Special State Attorney by a Court Wing
. At any time, the Litigation Subcommittee may reject the

representation of any attorney who has not been appointed as a Special State?s Attorney ear?hired

as?a?Gon-traet??kttemey. Upon rejection, the Litigation Subcommittee may ask the State?s
Attorney to provide representation or petition the respective court to appoint an appropriate
attorney. The Litigation Subcommittee may also reiect any Attorney From providing
representation if they have Failed to comply with the Cook County Guidelines For Special smug
Attomevs in previous representations of Cook County parties.

Sec. 2?334. Fees, Expenses, Rates and Fee Petitions

a) Fees and Expenses. Attorneys shall be paid reasonable
fees and costs based on the type and nature of the ease. Such fees and costs shall conform to the

fees and costs authorized under this section. The must

pay for all expenses in advance unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or agreed to in

writing by the Litigation Subcommittee. Reimbursement of expenses shall be requested as part of
Attorney?s fee petitions.

Expenses shall be reimbursed as follows:

1) Photocopying. Reasonable photocopying at actual cost, not to exceed 10 cents
per page.

2) Messenger Service. The use of messengers when there is a genuine need for
expedited delivery?at actual charges of a third-party vendor or, when an in-
house ?rm messenger is used, at actual cost.

3) Computerized Research. Actual costs of reasonably necessary computerized
research services.

b)

ON LITIGATION. REPORT . 

OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 6

4) Experts. The reasonable fees of quali?ed consulting and testifying experts
retained to provide opinions necessary to the defense or prosecution of the
litigation.

5) Travel. Air travel expenses must not exceed the highest fare coach rate for the
flight. MiEag? expenses shall be at the Internal Revenue Service deductible
rates Hotels car rental companies and airlines offering moderate prices and
discounted corporate rates shall be used. Be?HAppeinted?and?Ge?traet
Attorneys Shall reduce the hourly rate charged by 50 percent while an attorney
or paraprofessional is traveling, unless legal work in being performed and is

documented.

General Business Costs. Law ?rm overhead expenses including, but not limited to, rent,
electricity, supplies, secretarial and support services, computer system expenses, overtime
expenses, local telephone service and other similar expenses, shall be considered part of the
Apeointed?and?Gentreet Attorneys? hourly rate.

(0) .Miscellaneous Costs. Beth?Appeinted?and?Gentreet Attorneys shall not seek reimbursement of

fees for:

preparing a fee petition;

conducting a con?icts check;

entertainment expenses;

excessive staffing;

work resulting from Appoi-nted?er?Gentraet Attorney error;
preparing an estimated case budget.

ewewwe

Amunnted?and?Gentraet Attorneys? appearances and depositions shall, under most
circumstances, be based on the work of a single attorney.

Fee Petitions. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court, Appemted?erttemeys?aed



Gentraet Attorneys shall submit fee petitions quarterly. If the accumulated charges for a quarter
are less than $500.00, the charges shall be included 1n the next quarterly fee petition. Appei?ted
and?Gentraet Attorneys shall submit all fee petitions to the Chair in a time appropriate for referral
to and review by the Subcommittee prior to ?ling the fee petition with the court. The time spent
performing the chargeable services shall be recorded on a daily basis to the nearest 1/10 of an
hour and shall be broken down 1n detail, describing the work performed by each individual during
that time period. The fee petition shall contain the amount charged for each attorney and
paraprofessional, including the time, the hourly rate and summary total for each. The fee petition
shall itemize expenses according to categories including the following: photocopying, messenger
service, computerized research, experts and travel. 

Rate Structure. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or the Subcommittee, Appointed
Attemeysend Gem-tract Attorneys shall bill for their services on an hourly basis and in accordance
with the Fee Schedule set forth below, as approved and amended from time to time by the Board.
The Fee Schedule shall establish the maximum hourly charges payable for the type of service
provided. Attorneys may propose alternative fee structures
such as blended, ?at or contingent rate upon approval of the subcommittee.

 LITIGATION REPORT 
OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 7

Fee schedule

 

 

Partner Hourly Rate $170700 185.00
Associate Hourly Rate $140.00 155.00

 

 

 

_Paralggal/Law CErk Hourly Rate $65.00

 

Sec. 2-335. Litigation resolution

a) Alternative Dispute Resolution. If an Appointed Attorney believes that alternative dispute
resolution is appropriate to resolve a matter, that Appointed Attorney shall bring a proposal
recommending such action to the Litigation Subcommittee for its consideration and approval.

Settlement. Appoinied Attorneys shall communicate all settlement proposals to the Subcommittee
in a timely manner. Appointed Attorneys shall provide a written settlement analysis and
recommendation to the Litigation Subcommittee and shall be prepared to present that
recommendation at a meeting of the Subcommittee.

0) Permission to Try. Appoinied Attorneys shall obtain the approval of the Litigation Subcommittee
prior to taking a matter to trial. When an Appointed Attorney recommends that a civil matter
proceed to trial, that attorney shall provide a revised Case Summary and recommendation to the
Litigation Subcommittee. That attorney shall be prepared to present that recommendation at a
meeting of the Subcommittee. Prior to seeking the authority to bring a matter to trial, Attomm
must present a revised ease budget with the estimated cost of the_potential trial to the Litigation
Subcommittee for approval.

(1) Appeals. Appoinied Attorneys must notify the Chair of any ?nal and appealable ruling in civil
matters within seventy?two (72) hours of the ruling. If an appeal may result in the imposition of
accrued interest upon the County, the Appointed Attorney must obtain authorization from the
Litigation Subcommittee before pursuing the appeal However, Appointed?Attorneys shall take all
steps necessary to protect the interests and preserve the appeal rights of the parties they represent
pending a decision to appeal, including the ?ling of appropriate post?trial motions or a notice of
appeal when necessary. The decision to appeal must be approved by the Subcommittee on
Litigation.

Section 2-336 Con?icts of interest

a) Modi?cation of Guidelines. There may be circumstances in which the Cook County Guidelines
for Appointment of Special State?s Attorneys ai??OdeGon?aet?Attoineys requires
modification. The Litigation Subcommittee shall examine these situations on a case-by-case
basis and shall modify the Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys and?9m
Gininaiet?idittorneys accordingly for the course of that representation. In unusual circumstances in
which an Attorney believes that strict compliance with the
Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys a-H?d?cheF?GGW would
interfere with the exercise of their professional judgment or otherwise violate their professional
responsibilities, they shall seek appropriate guidance from the court Pending the
receipt of such guidance, they shall be relieved of the obligation to comply with the Cook County

b)

d)

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE 0N REPORT
OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 8

Guidelines for Special State?s Attorney and?Gther?Gentraet?Attemeys, but only to the extent

necessary to avoid the perceived problems that prompted the request for guidance.

Con?icts Check. Before accepting a court appointment, when applicable, or before rendering any
services, Attorneys must conduct a con?ict of interest review
and provide the Litigation Subcommittee with a written list of all actual or potential con?icts of

 

interest and matters that may present the appearance of a con?ict.

Timely notification. Attorneys must provide the Chair a
written notice of any actual or potential con?icts or the appearance of a con?ict within ?ve (5)
days of learning of the con?ict.

Waiver: Attorneys must be free of any con?ict of interest

under the rules of professional conduct unless the con?ict is waived by the Litigation
Subcommittee and the party represented by the Attorney.

 

Sec. 2?336. Penalties

If an Appointed?r?nntraet Attorney fails to comply with Sections 2-331 through 2-335, the
Litigation Subcommittee may delay or deny the payment of any accrued or future fees and
costs for the matter of representation.

An attorney who ?les an appearance without being appointed as a Special State?s Attorney
by a court loe?Stateis?Attemey shall not be paid for any time or costs accrued prior to their

 

representatimk

Effective date. This ordinance takes effect immediately upon passage.

*Referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation on 07-31~13.
*Deferred as Substituted at the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation on 09-09-13.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Approve Communication
No. 324536, An Ordinance Establishing Guidelines For Special State?s Attorneys, as Substituted.
The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to authorize invoice
payments for special counsels in Tab #1 through Tab #5 in Volume 2 which are in compliance with
the County?s Attorney-Fee Guidelines. The motion carried.

Tab 1

Tab 2

Rock Fusco Connelly, LLC Capra v. Cook County, et al.
Case No. 11 4028

Rock Fusco Connelly, LLC Sat/car 12. Cook County, at al.
Case No. 10 6682

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT 

OCTOBER 1, 2013
PAGE 9
Tab 3 Donohue Brown Mathewson Satkar, et al. v. Cook County Board of Review,
LLC et al.
Case No. 10 6682
Tab 4 Peterson, Johnson Murray, LLC Gwendolyn Bell v. Cook County

Case No. 12 5_43_2

Tab 5 Peterson, Johnson Murray, LLC James Degorski v. Cook County Sheri? at
Case No. 04 3367 al.
Tab 6 Peterson, Johnson Murray, LLC USA v. Cook County, at al.
Case No. 10 02946
Tab 7 Queny Harrow, Ltd. Hernandez v. Cook County Sherl??s Dept, et al.
Case No. 07 855
Tab 8 Special State?s Attorney Alexander Blanchard v. Berrios
Polikoff and the Business and Case No. 13 CH 14300

Professional People For
the Public Interest

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Adjourn. The motion
carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 324536 Recommended For Approval as Substituted

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION

@312, M. gm.

PETER N. SILVESTRI, CHAIRMAN

mm)

funiwn SEEM IARY

 

 



 



*An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 436, Chicago, IL 60602

