REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ZONING AND BUILDING

July 31, 2013

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

SECTION 1

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Daley, ritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and Tobolski

(15)

Commissioner Collins and Reyes (2)

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Zoning and Building, having had under consideration the matter hereinafter
mentioned, respectfully reports and recommends as follows:

324284

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 1 I4 SIGNS, ARTICLE II
BILLBOARD AND OFF-PREMISES OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS, SECTIONS
114-32 AND 114?33 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 114
Signs, Article II Billboard and Off?Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs, Sections 114-32
and 114-33 ofthe Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board Of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 114
Signs, Article II Billboard and Off-Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs, Sections 114-32
and I 14-33 Of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

Sec. 114-32. - Sign permits.

Permit requiiemem. A sign permit issued by the Bweauef?Admimstia?en
Department OfBuilding and Zoning 15 required for all new and existing billboards and off-

 

premises outdoor advertising signs as follows.

(1) New signs Applications shall be made available sign permits to the
Bureau?eMd?mi?nistratien Department of Building a_nd for its
submittal tO the Zoning and Building Committee of the County Board.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGEZ

(2) Existing nonconforming signs. The Commissioner of Building and Zoning
is authorized to cause to be removed signs which are in violation of any
applicable ordinances and regulations ofthe County.

Permit application procedures.

(1) Applications for available sign permits shall be made to the Bataan?of
Department of BUIldIng and Zoning on forms furnished by
the Buteau Department. All applications shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the County Board.

(2) Applications shall include information required to assure compliance with
regulations set forth in this article and with all other applicable ordinances
and regulations of the County.

(3) Applicants shall provide a bond, in a form acceptable to the Bnteau?ef
Adnninstratien Department of Building and Zoning, to ensure that signs
will be constructed, maintained and removed in accordance with this
article. Bonds shall permit the County to make, or cause to be made,
emergency repairs and/or removal of signs.

(4) Sign permits shall be issued by the Department
of Building and Zoning upon satisfaction of all requirements and the
approval of the County Board. Any permit may be revoked at any time by
the Department of Building and Zoning upon a
finding that a sign violates any provision of this article, or any other
applicable County ordinance or regulation, or when a permittee has made
false representations in securing a sign permit.

 

(0) Fees. In addition to the application fee required to obtain a sign permit, an
annual fee of $600.00 shall be required to maintain the permit.

Sec. 114-33. - General requirements applicable to all signs.

Signs shall not be erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from
any door or window, nor shall signs be erected so as to impair access to the roofs of
buildings.

Signs shall not be attached to trees or utility poles.

(0) Signs shall not be painted, erected or constructed on the walls or roofs of
buildings or structures.

Signs shall not use strobe lights.

Signs which are indirectly illuminated shall be illuminated by a steady,
stationary, shielded or shaded light source and shall be directed solely at the sign so that
the light intensity or brightness does not shine on adjacent properties or create traffic
hazards for motorists or pedestrians.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE3

Signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressure of 30
pounds per square foot, and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required by the
County Building and Environmental Ordinance.

Signs made of metal shall have faces or backgrounds constructed of metal
not thinner than No. 28 gauge.

(11) Signs containing glass shall use safety glass.

Signs containing letters and characters shall be legible, cleanly defined and
unfaded.

Sign parts and supports shall be painted and maintained to prevent rusting,
rotting, illegibility or other deterioration. All broken or missing parts of signs shall be
replaced.

Signs which are freestanding shall be designed and engineered by an

engineer licensed in the State of Illinois. Stamped drawings shall be submitted to the
Bureau?eMdmmistratIen Department of Building and Zoning along with permit
applications, which certify that signs comply with all structural regulations in this article
and with all other applicable ordinances and regulations ofthe County.

(I) Signs shall not contain any fluttering, undulating, swinging, rotating,
flashing or other moving parts, except:

(1) Signs that give time and temperature information; and

(2) Multiple?message signs with displays that change not more frequently than
once every ten seconds.

Signs shall display the name ofthe permit holder.

(11) Signs for which a permit has expired, which are unsafe, poorly maintained,
insecure or which have been maintained, constructed or erected in violation of the
provisions ofthis article, or with other applicable ordinances and regulations ofthe County

may be removed, or caused to be removed by the Commissioner of Building and Zoning.

(0) Signs shall not display speci?ed anatomical areas or specified sexual
activity as defined in Appendix A, Zoning.

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.

7" Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 324284. The motion carried.

324285

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE4

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER I30 WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES, SECTIONS 130?3 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni
Preckwiinkle, Cook County Board of Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 130
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Section 130-3 of the Cook County Code shall be
amended as follows:

Sec. 130-3. General Requirements.

For purposes of this chapter, the followipgugrms iwill be given the
meaning de_scribed herein:

 

?Antenna? means any exteri_or apparatus designed for telephonic, radio,
data, internet, or television communication through the sending or
o? waves, and includes related quipntent
attached to a structure [for the purposes of providing such service.

 

 

Q) ?Building? is de?ned in Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning.

Q) ?Co-location? means the shared use of._a_ structure by more than one
wireless telecommunications service provider.

 

 

 

(E) ?Service Provider" meansity corporation, eompanv. association, l'il'ln,
partnership. limited liabilitv corporation, other entity or individual or
person which provides wired or wireless teleeontntunieatinn serviees
licensed bthefederalCommunications Commission (FCC).

 

 

(1) ?Structure? is de?ned in Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning.

(L) ?Cook any structure, tower, or building

owned or Operated_ by Cogk_County or any of its agents,
departments, licensees, or agencies.

 

 

 

(Li) "Public_ut_i_l_itv structure? as used in this chapter means any plant,
equipment. or prOpertv used_or to be used for_or in connection
with a ?public utility? as de?ned in 220 ILCS 5/3?105, and
includes _electrical transmission and antenna towers, electrical
power structures, and water towers owned by municipalities,
townships. special service districts, county or we governments.

 

 

 

(Q) ?Wireless telecommunication facility? as used in this chapter shall be
given the same meaning as carrier, wireless
and receiving l'iteilitv.? which is defined in
Article l4 of Appendix A, 

'l .. .. 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 5

(1) :?Wireless telecommunications service? means a two-way voice radio-
linked communications service which provides dial interconnection to a
network. including but not limited to cellular telephone
service and personal communications service:

?Wireless telecommugicatiomwer? means any strugure used for
installation of telephone transmission equipment and personal
communications systems and includes the monopole to which an antenna
is? attached. :l?he?le' g?
ILL- utIl It-y



ser?iee-d- 
i-HelHdes?any?SH- Lletu I 



 

 

installation of a wireless antenna on an existing wireless telecommunication
facility is_a_p_ermitted_useiilalggiing districts.

Co- location of a new wireless telecommunication facility antenna on an

existing . structure other than a wireless
telecommunication facility shall not exceed 15 feet above the highest point of the existing
unless a variance is gIaIIlcd.

(6 id) A_ll nNew wireless telecommunication towers mmc?t?haa?I?QQ?IeeI?IH?hagla

 

 

 

 

Ieleeamanw?mns?sawee?Was?aml must be located at least one- -half mile away from
any existing wireless telecommunication t_ower faeIlIty?Fegachless?eflheIght unless the new
wireless telecommunication towers are located on an existing forest preserve structure,
Co_ok quity utilitht_ruc_tIILe. In_additi0n. all nNew wireless
telecommunication towers more than 100 feet in height above curb level must be designed
and intended for co-location of at least five telecommunication antennas. New?wifeless

 

 

stI-IIc-tule FIE a- 
mile?seIaa-FaHeH?Fe?a?emeah

New wireless telecommunication facilities shall not be installed on a
building less than 40 feet in height when located in a residential district unless a
variatien? is granted. Such variatien?s shall be limited to installation of microcell and
similar on buildings that are at least?ta 30 feet
in height Iii-strict.

{team New wireless telecommunication facilities shall be set back from the
nearest residential lot line a minimum distance equal to the height of the new wireless
telecommunication tower 
and?unless a variatien? is granted. This requirement shall not apply to new wireless
telecommunicationiantennas that are being co-located on an existing public utility
structure.

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE6

Gil) Lg) New wireless telecommunication towers excluding the lightning r;od shall
not exceed 120 feet height above curb level 
located in a residence or commercial
zoning district unless a is granted.

6g) New wireless telecommunication towers excluding the lighting rod- shall
not exceed 150 feet height above curb level 
when located in an industrial or public zoning
district unless a variatien? is granted.

GHQ) New wireless telecommunication facilities shall meet or exceed the
structural standards for steel antenna towers and supporting structures contained in the
current "Electronic Industries Association/Telecommunications Industries Association 222
Revision Standards?.

New wireless telecommunication facilities proposed for forest preserve
property and/or public zoning districts must shall be located on a portion of the site
improved and used for on?site maintenance or be?co-located on an existing Cook County
structure.

 

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.

Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to Defer Communication No.
324285. The motion carried.

324315

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, APPENDIX A ZONING, ARTICLE 8,
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTIONS 8.6, ARTICLE 9 PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT, SECTIONS. 9.5 THROUGH 9.8, ARTICLE 13, ADMINISTRATION
AND ENFORCEMENT, SECTIONS 13.3, 13.4, 13.6, 13.7 AND 13.8, AND ARTICLE
14 RULES AND DEFINITIONS (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Cook County Board of Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 8, General Provisions, Section 8.6, AIticle 9, Planned Unit Development,
Sections 9.5 through 9.8, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.3, 13.4,
13.6, 13.7, and I38, and Article 14, Rules and Definitions, ofthe Cook County Code shall
be amended as follows:

ARTICLE 8. GENERAL PROVISIONS

8.6. - Structure height.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 7

The following requirements qualify or supplement district regulations in this
ordinance:

8.6.1. District regulations. The height of any structure shall not exceed 125 percent of
the height of the tallest existing structure located within a one-quarter mile radius of the
property lines of the subject site. Structures located in C-2, C-7 or C-8
zoning districts shall not be used in the calculation of tallest existing structure. Property
zoned R-7, (3-2, C-7 or 08 is exempted from this provision. This provision shall
not apply ifno structure exists within a one-quarter mile radius.

8.6.2. Public buildings. A public hospital or institution, a public or parochial school
and a public utility or public service building shall not exceed a height of 60 feet, provided
the building is set back from the front, rear and side lot lines a ratio of two feet for every
ten feet of building height greater than 40 feet. This height requirement shall apply in
addition to rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.

8.6.3. Building appurtenances. A chimney, parapet wall, skylight, steeple, flag pole,
smokestack, cooling tower, elevator bulkhead, ?re tower, monument, water tower, stack,
stage tower or scenery loft, tank, ornamental tower or spire, roof garden, recreational
facility, mechanical appurtenance or penthouse containing a mechanical appurtenance may
exceed the height limits in this ordinance and shall not be included in building height.

8. 6.4. Planned unit developments. The structures in a planned unit development may
exceed the height limits established for the district in which the structures are located in
accordance with an approved planned unit development.

8.6.5. Airports.

A. Structures subject to notice under Federal Aviation Regulations shall not be
constructed until it is determined by the Federal Aviation Administration that a
structure will not be a hazard to aerial navigation. Applications for zoning
amendments, special uses, unique uses, variatiensnces or planned unit
developments which involve property located within two miles of an airport shall
be forwarded by the 
apartment of Building and Zoning to the Federal Aviation Administration for
review and comment. In addition, plans to construct a structure exceeding 160 feet
in height, regardless of location, shall be forwarded to the Federal Aviation
Administration for review and comment.

B. Data relating to an applicant's request to construct a structure within two miles of
an airport shall be made available to the Federal Aviation Administration by the

Department of Building and Zoning or Bureau of Administration Economic
Development.

ARTICLE 9. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT

9.5. - Application for preliminary plan approval.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGES

9.5.1. Notice ofopplication. An applicant shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days before ?ling an application, serve written notice; of intent to apply for a PUD by
certi?ed mail with return receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot
lines of the proposed PUD. The property owners receiving notice shall be those persons or
entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
devilop?gils feet of [he lot lines of the proposed PUD, only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250
feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within 1V2
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district serving the
PUD, the ?re chief of each local ?re protection district serving the PUD, the township
clerk and the township highway commissioner for the district serving the PUD. Notice
shall contain the address of the subject property, a brief statement of the nature of the
application, the name and address of the applicant and a statement of the approximate date
when the applicant intends to apply. If the property owner on which notice is served cannot
be found or the mailed notice is returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be
deemed satis?ed provided the applicant made a bona?de effort to determine the owner's
address.

 

 

9.5.2. Application and supporting documents.

A. Ampplications for a PUD shall be submitted to the Department of Building and
Zoninanreau?of Administration in such form and accompanied by such
information as required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant
shall ?le one original application and all supporting
documents. The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Burenn?of
AdministrationDepaitment of Building and Zoniiligsliall independently verify, that
nowhether a judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance is
pending pertaining to the subject property.

 

B. Applicants shall ftirnisnile with to?the of
Building and Zoning a sworn af?davit containing a complete list of the names and
last known addresses of the persons served with notices pursuant to Section 9.5.1..



 

 

C. Ag-ipliealions which 
applicant; The Bureau 

DTApplications shall be accompanied by the following documentation:

1. Statement describing the character of the PUD and the manner in which it has
been designed to take advantage of the flexibility of PUD regulations and the
bene?ts that will accrue to the public as a result ofthe PUD.

2. Statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD.

3. Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within the proposed
PUD, with supporting documentation, and an af?davit certifying that there are
no delinquent taxes on the whole or any part ofthe property.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

16.
17.

19.
20.

21.

22.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE9

Development schedule indicating stages in which the proposed PUD will be
built and approximate dates for beginning and completion of each construction
stage.

Proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the use,
maintenance, operation and improvement of the proposed PUD and any of its
common open space.

Statement indicating the density of uses including total number of dwelling
units per acre, number of units by type, number of buildings by type and
number of bedrooms in each building and dwelling unit type.

Statement detailing the type and amount of nonresidential uses including the
total amount of common open space and net amount (open space which is not
located in required yards or storm water management areas) of open space.
Statement identifying the type and location of service facilities and off-street
parking facilities, including total number of parking spaces and parking spaces
per sub-area.

Architectural plans for all primary buildings which reveal the style of the
development and the building design, floor area of building types and total
ground coverage of buildings.

Landscape plan prepared by a registered landscape architect depicting trees,
plant materials, grading, excavating, berming and aesthetic features.

School impact study estimating the number of additional students and the
financial burden the proposed PUD will have on local school districts.
Appraisal report prepared by an MAI appraiser demonstrating the value of the
property as zoned and the value as zoned with the proposed PUD.

Tax impact study estimating the tax revenue to be generated by the proposed
PUD and the estimated cost to various taxing bodies of providing necessary
services to the PUD.

Traffic analysis demonstrating the adequacy of the local transportation system
to handle anticipated traffic volumes generated by the proposed PUD and an
analysis of the adequacy ofthe PUD's internal vehicular circulation system.

.Economic feasibility study of the proposed PUD showing the need and

feasibility of the proposed development.

Sediment and erosion control plan.

Report indicating the subsurface conditions on the proposed PUD land,
including location and result of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock
and ground water conditions, depth to ground water and location and results of
soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.

. Schedule for phased development of the proposed PUD if the PUD is not

intended to be established within one year. Upon approval, the development

plan or schedule shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the PUD.

Preliminary lighting plan.

Survey prepared by a registered landscape architect or arborist of all trees over

six inches in diameter, as measured six inches above the established grade,

indicating location, species and quality.

Report indicating the existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,

including bicycle paths.

Site plan to scale depicting the following information:

a. Boundary lines of adjoining property within 1,000 feet of the subject
property identifying parcels by PIN number, existing land use, existing

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGEIO

zoning classification and comprehensive plan recommendation.

b. Location, width and purpose of easements.

c. Streets on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including street names, right-
of?way widths, parking areas, existing or proposed centerline elevations,
pavement types, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, culverts, paths and bike trials.

d. Utilities on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers, location and size
of water mains and location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone lines and street lights.

e. Ground elevations on the proposed PUD at one-foot contours with spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales
and at points of special significance.

f. Water courses, floodplains, floodways, wetlands, marshes, rock outcrops,
wooded areas, trees six inches or more in diameter, houses, accessory
buildings and other signi?cant features.

g. Direction and gradient of ground slope of land within 1,000 feet of the
proposed PUD including embankments or retaining walls, character and
location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other
nonresidential land uses or adverse influences, platted lands with
percentage of buildup, lot sizes and dwelling types.

h. Proposed public improvements within 1,000 feet of the proposed PUD
including highways and other major improvements planned by public
authorities for future construction on or near the tract.

i. Open space and recreational areas and facilities for public use or reserved

for the use of all property owners.

Location, purpose and height ofall buildings and structures.

Name of development, site planner, north point, scale, acreage of site and

date of preparation.

I. Additional information as may be required by Cook County.

w?r-

D. Applications shall be accompanied bv proposed findings of fact addressing each of

 

 

F.. Applicalions which fail lo comply will] this section shall be returned by the Zoning
Atlluiuisu'alor gun! the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. The Zoning Administrator may retain one copy of the application and
supporting documents.

 

9. 5. 3. 

 

submit-ted in? full pl- ioi? 

9&4 Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in order to be deemed complete.

9.5.4. Veri?cmion. The Department of Building and_Zoni_n_g shall vqify that the
application for preliminary_plan approval is complete and that all required documentation
has been submitted prior to forwarding the application.

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013


9.5.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclosures bv sworn af?davit,
filed at the time ofthe application.
A. Property.

 

 

1. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
bene?ciary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest

of each beneficiary. 
thae?ellme?applieatiun:

2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest, shall disclose the name and address of

each partner or associateApplicants property owned by a corporation, shall disclose the name, address
and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owing five percent or
more of the corporation. 


B. Applicant.

1. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address of the principals, and their interest in
the subject property. If the principals are not individuals, the identity of the
principals shall be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 2 below. Disc?lesure

fl 

2. Applicants who are a partnership or association of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five-percent

interest shall be disclosed. 
. l' . .

3. Applicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning ?ve percent or more
of the corporation. 
Wshhe: icat-ien:

 

Ad?mini?stratie? Department of Building and Zoning shall forward a?eepy?ef the complete
application and supporting documentation to the Zoning Board of Appeals which shall
thereafter set a date for public hearing. The date for public hearing shall be set to permit
sufficient time for review required in Section 9.5.7.

9.5. 7. Processing applications. Upon receipt of a complete application for preliminary
plan approval. and at least IS (luvs before scheduled hearing date. lilihe Bareaa?ef
Administration ul' linililing i-Illtl 

shall forward a copy ofthe application. including the applicant?s 
findings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 12

whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development, the
Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve, the Cook
County Department of Public Health and the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control that a complete application including the applicant_ 3 proposed find_i1_1gs__ of fact_ and
all supporting documentation has been submitted and is read_y_ for review. iH?additieH?the

 

 

reviewing department shall submit
recommendations and comments tom?Bum at least 307 days before

the scheduled hearing date.

Gaiili?Gi-mnty Each reviewing departments shall examine the application and

supporting documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:

A. Department of Planning and Development.



Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.
Landscape plan.

B. Department of Building and Zoning.



Site plan review.

Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity ofthe proposed use.
Lot size.

Subdivision regulations.

C. Department of Highways.


2.
3.
4



Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Floodway and ?oodplain capacity and storage.

Drainage and detention requirements.

Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access
control.

Subdivision regulations.

Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local ?re protection agencies, and townships.

Erosion and sediment control requirements.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE13

D. Forest Preserve District.

I. Compatibility ofthe proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.

E. Department of Public Health.

Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.

Swimming pools.

Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and safety concerns.

m-h-wa?l

F. Department of Environmental Control.

Noise and odor regulations.

Soil geology and composition.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Discharges ofeffluent and particulate into the air, land and water.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.



 
   

 
 

 

Beard ems; Harem-1a ant-I
WW 

 

 

WMIa-ewan and?plana?whm liked?and?Hselwate
The
Cook County Departmentls: recommendations and 
Administsat-ian's report shall be available to the applicant or its representative, upon
request, for review and/0r reproduction prior to the hearing date. The Bureau of

- 

 


applieant- s-liall? ieimhurse?tleelefre 
consultants?plan ID?L?l1Hl[l9i?il0H?Ul I-lie? 
Gemmissie?eis:

 

9.5. 8. Notice ()fpub/ic hearing.

A. Time and place ofa public hearing shall be published in a neWSpaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than IS days before the hearing. In addition, at
least I5 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which an application for preliminary plan approval has been filed in
such a way as to be plainly visible from the street or right-of?way passing the
frontage of the property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until
the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in
size. The sign shall have a white background and contain the word in

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 14

red capital letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black
capital letters a minimum ofthree inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: "This property is the subject of a special use hearing for a
PUD before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on (date) at (time) at
(location)."

B. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certi?ed mail; 
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing, by the Zoni_IgLBoard
of Appeals to the clerk of each municipality within 1V2 miles of the property for
which the PUD application has been 
manner; to the clerk of the township, the superintendent of each school district and
the ?re chief of the local fire protection district in which the property is located.
The applicgt shall serve written notice. bv certi?ed mail with return receipt
requested. to property owners within 250 feet of the lot ?nes PUD,
whose names appear on the Cook County tax to the date, time and
location of the public hearing. For condominium developments that are located
within 250 feet of the lot lines of the proposed PUD. onlv the condominium
association shall be served with notice. The notices shall contain the same
information as the posted notice and shall also contain the legal description of the
property, the common address of the property, the name of the applicant, the
applicant's representative and a brief description of the requested PUD. Inndditien

 

Wani+nwweeiaFnses~Fn i~lvure~ to ?iintity??-?etwe?ot?frmpenty
or
additional notices shall be published or distributed as prescribed by Zoning Board
of Appeals? rules. All required notices shall be provided at the expense of the
applicant. Applicant shall submit proof of mailing for all required notices.
Applicants shall also file a sworn af?davit with the Department _of_B_uilding and
Zoning certifmg?mpliance with the notice_re_quii:ements of this section.

 

C. Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be responsible
for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records
of written notices. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at the expense of the
applicant, is given.

9. 5. 9. Hearing. The Zoning BoaId of Appeals shall hold at?least?ene a _public hearing
for a proposed PUD in 

 

lIearing shall be conducted in accordance with Article 13 of this
ordinance and the Zoning Board of Appeals? rules. An authOIized representative of any
Cook County department that provided comments on the application andaleHne?Bnneau?ef
Administration shall testify at the healing if requested by the Zoning BoaId of Appeals.
The hearing shall take place at the Cook County Administration Building unless the
Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the Countv Building has more
adequat?acilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings. examina_tions. and other
of?cial a_cti_o_ns shall be preserved in the manner prescribed bv Zoning Board of Appeals'

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGEIS

involving the subject _property,iie_applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the
Zoning,_B_oard of Appeals than one continuance. The hearing shall be
1ranscrihed hv a court reporter nl' lht: annlicanlis choosing. Failure of the applicant to
Imwide a transcript of the hearingt?s)? within 311 days Iiilloxvilig the hearing shall void the
application. The deadline to submit a transcript may be extended by the Zoning Board of
Appeals onggfor a maximum of_30 additional_days.

 

 

9.5.10. Standards and ?ndings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.

A. Applicants for PUD approval shall satisfy the following standards:

1. PUD conforms with the planning objectives, policies and maps of the County
as specified in the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan.

2. PUD is of a type and character and contains uses that are needed in the area.

3. PUD is designed and laid out to preserve environmentally sensitive areas,
natural resources, habitat and topographic features to the fullest extent
possible.

4. PUD is designed in conformity with the provisions of the Cook County
Subdivision Manual or any successor subdivision document.

5. PUD is designed to provide horizontal spacing between buildings which takes
into consideration the purpose and objectives of this article.

6. PUD complies with the industrial performance standards enumerated in Article
6 ofthis ordinance ifthe PUD contains industrial uses.

7. PUD complies with the parking requirements enumerated in Article 11 of this
ordinance.

8. PUD provides appropriate yards, setbacks and buffers between the PUD and
adjacent zoning lots. The applicant shall specifically request, in writing, any
variatien? from the required setbacks.

9. PUD has adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities.

10. PUD has ingress and egress designed to minimize traffic congestion in public
streets.

1 1. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be detrimental to or endanger
public health, safety or general welfare.

12. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the uses already
permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
area.

13. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property.

14. PUD shall provide more open space than would be required in a standard
subdivision.

15. PUD shall be designed to connect to existing or planned pedestrian and bicycle
systems in the vicinity.

B. Appllearns-shall; within-311 {lays alter the 


arh?ll'essing each-of the ahtwestandards-.- 717 he 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE16



14H t?l?th-l-mgs?Hl?Fa 

Within?seven 
the?peopeH-loeatedr 


- - C?Reeommendatioiwantl -e?E44444ne444FroF 4 he Goolw G.- 141411431L 

 

Wlea-lmm?epart C4444li- Got-iiu-y? 


 

otF?the?Joninu?Boaui? 

  

  

reemWoo?to?be?lowded?to?Hw?L?o
1} Written ?ndings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 699__0 days after 
1e hearing and shall be
submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Rec_om_nEn_dat_im?a1?i
comments of the Cook County Department of Planning and Development. the
Coolt County Department of" Building and Zoning. the Cook Couiitv Department
of l-lighwavs. {'0on Counlv li'orest Preserve District. the Cook County 
mpaommt. the Cook_ County DeminsnL 9f. Enyitgnaiental Canto?IL
I miles ol'the subiect property antl local school and
fire protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by the Zoning
Board of Appeals in its ?ndings and recommendations. The ?ndings and
recommendations shall include a statement indicating the extent to which the
proposed PUD departs from zoning, subdivision and other regulations applicable
to the property and the reasons why a departure is or is not in the public interest.
The ?g??day period may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals once, for
ne?nme?thanagaximum of 930 additio?days if the Zoning Board of Appeals
granted an extension pursuant to this article. idle?a

111.1]

E. Recommendation for approval ofthe preliminary PUD plan shall not be made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written findings of fact that the
proposed use satisfies each of the PUD standards and is in the best interest of the
public. 

Gotnny-Boartl 4441(34-4114444i 44s ioners- a re 4144 int-try on 

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 17

F. TliZoning Board of Appeals may recommend; tilejmposition of conditions and
restrictions upon preliminary plan approval; varimeedeparture from the general
provisions, regulations and standards of this article; a11d/_o_r varimwedeparture from
any of the applicable district regulations when it deems a departure is in the public
interest. Igall cases, the Zoning Board of Appeals? recommendations to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners are advisory only.

 

9. 5. 1 I . Action by the Cook County Board of 

A. T_he Cook County Board of Commissioners may approve or deny, by motion, an

application for preliminary plan approval. 

 

AmaealsLlinngs?audt 
tea? 

 

and?ia?gra?le?cl?by- the Bt1a-1tl1-1l E1?1111-i11issi- 

B. The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the authority to+ impose conditions
and restrictions upun prelilninurv plan approval; tlepan from 
provisions,? regulations and standards of this article: and/or depart from any

 

 

 

m?HHs?cn?ele?wy the applicable district 
when it deems a departure IS in the public
interest.

C. Applications for preliminary plan approval shall be approved by a favorable vote
of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in
cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended adoption at a
proposed PUD or when a written protest against the proposed PUD has been
received in accordance witl1_Article 13.

D. Approval ofthe preliminaiy plan and satisfaction of any conditions and restrictions
imposed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be conditions
precedent to submission ofan application for PUD ordinance.

9.6. - Final Plan Approval.

9. 6. 1 Application and supporting documents. The applicant shall, within one year
from the date of preliminary plan approval, submit an application for PUD ordinance to the
Bareau?eMdmm?tratren Department of Building and Zoning The applicant shall submit
one original and?latapiea 111 [he application and the following supporting documents:

 

A. Final PUD plat, suitable for recording with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds,
which includes the following information:

I. Designation of lots and the division of all other property, including common
open areas and building sites. If property within a ?nal plat is to be
subdivided, a subdivision plat is also required.

2. Final site plans including legal description of all lots and each separate,

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 18

unsubdivided area, including common open space, within the PUD.

3. Exact location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives, parking lots,
sidewalks, drainage and utility easements, detention easements and
conservation easements, landscaping and other preposed site improvements.

4. Final architectural plans setting forth the type and style of construction and
materials to be used in proposed buildings, including the height and area of
each building.

5. Certificates, seals and signatures necessary for dedicating property and
recording the ?nal plat.

6. Tabulation of separate unsubdivided use area, land area, number of buildings,
number of dwelling units and dwelling units per acre.

7. Final landscape architectural plans and specifications.

Final lighting plans and speci?cations.

9. Signage plans.

06

Common open space documents which verify that common open space will be
permanently preserved and streets, walkways and common spaces will be
maintained and repaired in perpetuity. Common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, to a not-for-profit corporation or
entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and residents or retained
by the applicant with legally binding guarantees providing for perpetual
maintenance, operation, improvements and repairs. All property conveyed to a not?
for?pro?t corporation, or like entity, shall be subject to the right of the corporation
or entity to impose a legally enforceable lien on all property within the PUD for
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.

Final construction engineering plans, signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer, for public facilities and improvements approved by the
Cook County Highway Department. Public facilities and improvements shall be
constructed upon approval of the PUD ordinance and a construction performance
bond shall be posted to guarantee construction of required infrastructure. The
performance bond shall be payable to Cook County and be sufficient to cover the
full cost of the facilities and improvements plus 15 percent.

Detailed plans signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed professional engineer for
the construction and installation of site amenities, including buildings, lakes and
other site improvements.

Final construction schedule which shall include the projected completion date of
the entire project and completion dates of any intermediate phases of the
development.

Statement indicating current ownership ofthe property and information regarding
intent to sell all or portions of the development.

Detailed plans depicting the size and location of dedicated parkland and school
sites or the amount of any cash contribution to the local park and school district.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 19

H. Proof from the Cook County Clerk's Of?ce in the [event] that no delinquent taxes
exist on any portion of the property.

1. Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the perpetual
maintenance, operation and improvements of the PUD. These documents shall be
recorded at the same time as the ?nal PUD plat.

9.6.2. Fee. An application for PUD ordinance shall be accompanied by a fee
established by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

9.6.3. Department reviews. The Bureae?eMdmm?tratIen ZoninQLBoard of Appeals
shall forward one copy of the application for PUD ordinance, plat and supporting
documents to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the property is located, the
Cook County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Zoning Board
of Appeals, the Cook County Department of Highways, the Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Department of Public Health, the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control and the Cook County Plat Officer for certification that the PUD,
plat and supporting documents are in substantial conformance with the approved
preliminary plan and other sections of this ordinance. The departments shall have 307 days
from receipt of the application for PUD ordinance to furnish the BureawefAdmerstratIen
Zoning Board of Appeals with their Wen?comments. Upon receipt of the comments 
the departments, the Bureau of Administration Zoning Board of Appeals shall make them
available to the applicant or its representative .IilLd allow the applicant its
representative to submit a response within 15 days. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall, 
ch?ify whether the application for final plan approval and supporting
documents are in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plans and shall
provide a recommendation to approve or deny the application to the Zoning Committee of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners within 30 days after receiving the comments
from the departments. ll? ?lay
med?PW? . .. 
the?Bareau?eMdImn?tratien:

 

 

 

 

9.6.4. Preparation of ordinance. The Bareau?ef?Administratien Zoning Board of
Appeals shall, when all conditions and procedures have been satis?ed, prepare the PUD
ordinance which shall address the standards of this article and any conditions imposed on
the PUD. Ifa map amendment is recommended in connection with the PUD, the Bureau?of
Administration Zoning Board of Appeals shall include a separate section in the PUD
ordinance which shall address the map amendment standards contained in Article 13 and
any conditions to be imposed on the map amendment. The Bureau?ef?Adm?i?nistratien
ZoningLBoard of Appeals shall forward the proposed PUD ordinance to the Zoning
Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

 

9. 6. 5. Action by the Cook County Board ofCornmissioners The Cook County Board of
Commissioners may approve or deny the proposed PUD ordinance. TlIe?failu-re?etLthe
County to take IIetiI-In {It} L-iit?vS" 

per-ind he extent-led 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGEZO

favorable vote of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners shall be required when a written protest to the application for preliminary
plan was ?led pursuant to Article 

9. 6. 6. Conditions and restrictions. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may, by
ordinance, impose conditions and restrictions on a PUD to assure compliance with the
standards and requirements of this ordinance. In addition, the Cook County Board may
require evidence and guarantees to ensure that the applicant complies with the conditions
of the PUD. Failure of the applicant to comply with conditions or restrictions shall
constitute a violation of this ordinance.

9.6. 7. Recordation. The applicant, upon adoption of a PUD ordinance, shall record the
PUD plat, common open space documents, dedications, agreements, provisions or
covenants with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds. Recording the PUD plat and
supporting documents shall constitute notice of the restrictions placed upon the property
and act as a zoning control device.

9.6.8. Building permits. The Department of Building and Zoning may not issue
building permits until the PUD plat and supporting documents have been recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds. The applicant shall present proof of recording to the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning. Construction authorized by a building permit
shall be in full conformance with the recorded PUD plat. Failure of the applicant to
develop and construct the PUD according to the PUD ordinance shall constitute a violation
ofthe zoning ordinance.

9.7. - Changes in an approved PUD.

A change to an approved PUD shall be made as follows:

9. 7.1. Major and minor changes.

A. Changes to the PUD which alter the concept, intent, standards or conditions of the
PUD established by the preliminary plan, and/or the PUD ordinance, shall be
construed by the Zoning Board of Appeals as a major modification necessitating
reconsideration of the PUD. Where a major modification is sought, the applicant
shall make application to the Bureau?ef?Administration Department of Building
and Zoning for an amendment to the preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance. The
application shall be processed in accordance with the procedures established for
review and approval of the preliminary plan. The documentation required to be
submitted by the applicant shall be suf?cient to provide for review of the proposed
amendment. The Bareau?ef?Administration Department of Building and Zoning
shall be authorized to determine the sufficiency of the documentation submitted in
support of the proposed amendment and to require such additional documentation
deemed necessary to review the application for amendment. The amendment to the
preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance shall otherwise be processed as an original
application subject to all notices, reviews, hearings and approvals required by this
article.

 

1.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 21

A major change to an approved PUD is a change to the approved site plan and
supporting maps and materials that altersresults in any of the following
elements:

i An increase in density for any phase of the development or for the
entire devel0pment:;

An increase in the approved floor area ratio:;

A reduction in the approved landscape material in quantity or in size
of material;

An increase in building height;

A change in the type of dwelling unit;

1: A reduction in the amount of open space or a change in the location of
the open spaceg?

Any change in the approved site plan which results in moving a

building more than 20 feet.

2. All other changes shall be construed as minor changes and shall be reviewed

and approved by the Department of Building and
Zoning.

B. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a recommendation to the Zoning and
Building Committee of the County Board regarding whether a plan with a major
change shall be approved or denied, with ?nal approval by the Board of
Commissioners.

C. Changes to the approved phasing schedule:

1.

In the event the petitioner/developer anticipates a time delay in meeting the
completion date for any or all of the phases of the planned unit development,
the applicant may ?le a written request to the Chairman of the Committee on
Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of Commissioners at least 20
days prior to the expiration of said completion date.

The Zoning and Building Committee will review and may recommend to the
President and Board of Commissioners an extension of said completion date
for any length of time as deemed justifiable by the President and Board of
Commissioners.

Should an approved PUD fail to meet any portion of its improvement/phasing
schedule, the Bureau?eMdministratien Department of Building and Zoning
shall review the circumstances and recommend one ofthe following actions to
the Committee on Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, with ?nal approval by the Board of Commissioners:
a. That theT?he use for the entire area be continued with a revised time
schedule;
b. That theThe PUD be revoked and the property be appropriately
rezoned;g
c. That aA new public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals be
scheduled on the PUD in accordance with the procedures for
preliminary PUD approval.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE22

9.8. - Reversion and extension.

Reversion. For purposes of this section, issuance of a building permit for any
phase of development shall establish the PUD. The applicant's failure to apply for a
building permit within one year of adoption of the PUD ordinance shall, without further
action, cause the PUD ordinance to be null and void. With respect to a map amendment
approved in conjunction with a PUD ordinance, the applicant?s failure to apply for a
:NilililLOllt; year ul?adopliyn of w?iut 
action cause the the map amendment shal?lt_o be null and void and the property slmH?m
revert to its zoning classi?cation immediately prior to the PUD application.

 

 

9.8.2. Extension. The applicant may apply for an extension of the one-year application
period prescribed in Sections 9.6.1 and 9.8.1. The applicant is limited to one 12?month
extension under each section. An application for extension shall be ?led with the Bureau?of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning before the expiration of the applicable
time period and shall be accompanied by a fee established by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. The Department of Building and Zoning may
recommend, and the Cook County Board of Commissioners may approve, the application
for an extension for good cause shown. Failure to apply for an extension in the time
prescribed shall render the application null and void.

ARTICLE 13. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
13.3. - Zoning Board of Appeals.

Membership. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be composed of seven
members: ?ve voting members who shall be appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and two ex- of?cio, nonvoting members, consisting of the Chairman of the
Bu?Hel?ing?and?Zoning and Building Committee of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and the emetoArdmmIstratrve?Offieer Chief of the Bureau of Econom_ic
Development tof Cook County. Ex? of?cio members may be represented by a designee at
any hearing or meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals. As of June 1, 2013, voting
members shall receive compensation of $500.00 per of?cial meeting of the Zoning Board
of Appeals where the member participates in person or by viewing a record of proceeding
where action is required not to exceed $12,000.00, with no other fringe or pension bene?ts,
and an allowance for expenses as provided by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
in its annual appropriation Ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall report the
number of of?cial meetings it has conducted on a quarterly basis to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners. Members of the Zoning Board of Appeals serving at the time of
adoption ofthis ordinance shall serve for the remaining term of their appointments, or until
their respective successors are appointed. All new and renewed terms of of?ce for Zoning
Board of Appeals members shall be for ?ve years.

One of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be designated by the
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners as Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals, and
shall hold of?ce until a successor is appointed. The President ofthe Cook County Board of

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 23

Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
shall have the power to remove for cause any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled by appointment of the President
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners for the unexpired term of the member whose position has
become vacant.

13.3.2. Jurisdiction. The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority:

A.

Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Department of Building and Zoning under this ordinance.

Hear and make recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
applications for authorized variationsw, on variationsn_ce_s from any quantitative
requirement of this ordinance, and for all applications referred by the Department
of Building and Zoning or the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Hear applications for special uses, planned unit developments, map amendments
and unique uses as set forth in this ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
report its ?ndings and recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
map amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
text amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
amendments to the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan and
make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.

Initiate, direct and review studies of this ordinance and make recommendations to
the Zoning and Building Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Hear and decide matters as set forth in this ordinance and matters referred to it by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by ordinance, resolution
or direction provide.

13.3.3. Meetings and rules The meetings nfthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall he held
at the call of the Chairman at such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine.
Hearings conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be considered public meetings
under the Illinois Open Meetings Act and shall be held in conformance with the Illinois

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 24

Open Meetings Act. Ex-of?cio members, or their designees, may fully participate in
meetings, but shall not vote on any matters before the Zoning Board of Appeals. For
purposes of conducting a public meeting, a quorum of four members shall be present in
person at the meeting, and two of the four members present may be ex-of?cio members or
their designees. For purposes of conducting a vote at a public meeting, three voting
members must be present in person at the meeting. Any person may appear and testify at a
hearing. The Chairman or Acting Chairman may administer oaths and subpoena witnesses.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question. If any voting member is absent or fails to vote, that shall
be re?ected in the minutes. Zoning Board of Appeals voting members may not vote by
proxy. Records shall be kept of all hearings and other of?cial actions of the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Applications, exhibits and all documents ?led by applicants, as well as
transcripts of hearings if provided, meetings, testimony and deliberations, shall constitute
the record of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be the keeper of the records. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules
and procedures, not in conflict with this ordinance or with applicable State of Illinois
Statutes, and may select or appoint such of?cers as it deems necessary. A copy of every
rule, regulation, amendment, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be ?led immediately with the Department of Building and Zoning
and shall be a public record.

13. 3.4. Decisions. The decisions and ?ndings of the Zoning Board of Appeals, except
as provided in 13.3.5, shall be ?nal administrative decisions and shall be subject to review
as provided by law.

13.3.5. Appeals ?om decisions oft/1e Zoning Administrator.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from an administrative
order, requirement or determination of the Department of Building and Zoning under this
ordinance.

An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person or entity or by
any of?cer, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the Department of
Building and Zoning under this ordinance. An appeal shall be taken within 35 days after
the date of the Department of Building and Zoning's decision by ?ling with the Zoning
Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
for the appeal. Notice of appeal shall be given to all persons or entities entitled to receive
notice as provided by Section 13.7.3.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for hearing an
appeal and give notice to the aggrieved person or entity and the Department of Building
and Zoning. The hearing shall take place within 30 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals
receives notice of appeal.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a written decision on the appeal within 30
days a?er the hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward its decision to all
parties of record. The Zoning Board of Appeals may af?rm, reverse, wholly or in part, or
modify a decision of the Department of Building and Zoning. A written decision of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall contain ?ndings of fact which support its decision. If the
Zoning Board of Appeals af?rms the decision of the Department of Building and Zoning,

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGEZS

the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals is a ?nal administrative determination and
shall be subject to review as provided by law.

If the Zoning Board of Appeals reverses the decision of the Department of Building
and Zoning, the Department of Building and Zoning has the right to appeal the Zoning
Board of Appeals' decision to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The matter shall
be heard upon the record of the Zoning and Building Committee, or a subcommittee,
("Committee") of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. No additional testimony
shall be taken and no additional documents shall be ?led. The Committee shall provide
notice of its hearing of an appeal as provided in this section. The Committee may af?rm,
reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the decision of the Zoning Board oprpeals.

Ifthe Committee reverses the Zoning Board of Appeals, the decision of the Committee
shall be a ?nal administrative determination and shall be subject to review as provided by
law. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain complete records of all
actions relative to appeals.

13.3. 6. Secretary ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals.

A. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the President
ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners.

B. Duties of the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as follows:

1. Maintain records of the Zoning Board of Appeals.

2. Forward to the County Board of Commissioners ?nal ?ndings of fact and
recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals for map amendments and
special uses and such other matters under this ordinance which require
consideration or action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

3. Administer duties which may be delegated to the Secretary by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners and the Zoning Board oprpeals.

13.4. Building permits/zoning certi?cates.

Application. An application for a building permit shall be deemed an
application for a zoning certi?cate. An application shall be accompanied by the following:

A. Plat of survey, in?iriplieate. drawn to scale and showing actual dimensions of lots
and blocks, as required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The plat shall
be dated within the prior siaementh?ve year period and it shall be certi?ed by a
land surveyor licensed by the State of Illinois as a true c0py of the prOperty
according to the registered or recorded plat of subdivision.

B. Site plan signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer in the State of
Illinois, in triplicate, drawn to scale in such form as may be prescribed by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The site plan shall show the ground area,
height and bulk of the building or structure, building lines in relation to lot lines,
use to be made ofthe building, structure or land and such other information as may
be required by the Department of Building and Zoning.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 26

13. 4.2. Procedure. A copy of each plat of survey and site plan shall be attached to the
application for a building permit when it is submitted to the Department of Building and
Zoning for zoning certification. The Department of Building and Zoning shall retain the
application, attached plats and plans as public records.

13.6. Variationsnces.
13.6.1. Purpose. In order to provide a streamlined approval process for minor

modifications of selected zoning standards. the Zoning AdIIliIIistratoL is hereby given the
authority to review and approve applications for variances of ten percent or less of the

 

 

 

Zoning Board of Appeals and without a publichearing In accordance with this ordinance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, shall recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny a_ll_ other authorized variatioIISI_Ices under this
ordinance. In making a recommendation to grant a variance ,the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall make ndIngs of fact In accordance with standards prescribed in this ordinance for
and shall also ?nd that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships
which prevent the applicant from strictly following regulations of this ordinance.

 

 

 

13. 6.2. Application, hearing, and notice of hearing.

application for a variatien? shall be filed i-n?tnplieate with and shall contain
such information as required by. the Department of Building and Zoning.
Electronic submission of application and supporting _documents shall be
encouraged. yarianees will also require the suhntittal ofone
detailed. signed and sealed architectural drawipg of the proposed Sign and a
detailed Sketch and/or rendering of the sign. addition. the applicant shall file a
sworn af?davit containing a complete list of the names and last known addressg
ol?the owners of properties on lots lyingyy?ijhin 150 feet of lite property lines of the
lot for which the variance is sought with his or heuariance application. whose
names appear on the Cook County tax records. Only the name and last known
address of the condominium association shall he quuhed l'or 
developments that are_ located within ISQ feet from the subiect property. The
Zoning Administrator shall reject applications for variatieIISI_Ices which do not
comply with the provisions of this ordinance. ApplieatIoIIs?lo" . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oi the- sigII- A copyo of
each application for variance which complies w_ith the proustons of this ordinance
shall be forwarded by tThe Department of Building and Zoning shall?feIward?ene
eHIIyLIIiltiIe?appl-ieatioH?to the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose district
the property is located. 


 

 

 

i The Zoning Board oi" Appeals shall hold at?leasl?oH-e a public hearing, on each
application fo_r_a variance, except those which the Zoning Administrator intends to
grant pursuant to Section 13.6.0 of this article. An authorized representative of
any County department that provided comment on the application shall testify at
the hearing.] il requested by the I'onine i_it'l_a_rd_ ol Appeals. lhe ltC?til?IL' shall t_a_ke

 

 

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 27

place at the Cook County Administration Builcing unless the Secretary of the
that the County Building has more adequate
facilities for such hearing. A record (If and other
of?cial actions shall be preserved in the manner prescribed by Zoning Board of
Appeals' rules. However, the hearing will nqtbe transcribed by a court reporter

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in that case the cost of th_etranscription must be borne by the person requestim
If there is a iudicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance
involving the subiect property, the applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall
the Zoning Board of more than one continuance.

 

 

 

C. Notice of the time and place of a public hearing for all variance applications,
except those whichuthue Zoning Administrator intends to grant pursuant to Section
13.6.9 of this article, shall be published by the Zoning Board of Appealsat?least
once, not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, before the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in Cook County. The published notice may be
Supplemented by additional notice as required by the rules of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. In addition, written notice of public hearings, including the reference
number assigned by the and the place, (late. and time of
the hearing shall be given not less than seven days or me than 45 days before the
hearing, by the Zoning Board of Appeals 
given?to the clerk of within miles of the subicct rII'opeITv

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Gel-leeter, and to all persons whose names are listed en?mailbexes?eleerbel?ls?er

 

Wt?l? In the IItlIdavit flied by the w_i_11_1 hi_s or he:
variance application. 
sebie??peepmLye?n?otice need only be sent to the condominium association of
developments that are located within I5t} 't'eet t_ _Ie 

property. to?tlIe?ele?eef?eaeh

 

 

 
  

 

II 

- - - - - The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall maintain a record of the method of serviceranel?the?names

?The
that- notice was 

 

 

13.6.3. Standards. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that it grant or deny a variance, unless the Zoning Board of Appeals first
makes written findings of fact on each of the following standards based upon evidence
presented:

A. Physical surroundings, shape or topographical condition of the property would
result in hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if
the provisions of this ordinance were followed.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE28

Conditions which are unique to the property exist and are not applicable to other
properties within the same zoning classification.

Variatienge sought is not based exclusively upon a desire to make the property
more profitable.

Hardship or alleged dif?culty is caused by this ordinance and not by any person
presently having an interest in the property.

Variatieng will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
properties or improvements in the neighborhood.

Variationg will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
properties, substantially increase congestion in the public streets, increase the
danger of ?re, cause increased ?ooding risk to adjacent property, endanger public
safety or substantially diminish or impair property values within adjacent
neighborhoods.

13.6.4. Conditions and restrictions. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to
the Board of Commissioners such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited
by a variatien? as may be necessary to reduce or minimize the effect of the variation@
upon other prOperties in the neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of this
ordinance. Failure of the applicant to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed
shall constitute a violation ofthis ordinance.

13.6.5. Authorized varia?ensnces. A variatienn? from the regulations of this
ordinance may be granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners only in the
following instances and in accordance with standards set forth in this ordinance:

A.

B.

Permit a yard or setback less than the yard or setback required by this ordinance.

Permit the use of a lot or lots for a use which is otherwise prohibited solely
because of the insufficient area or width of the lot or lots. The Cook County Board
of Commissioners shall not grant a variationnce which results in the division of a
conforming lot or lots into?twaeemere Mnonconforming lots. The Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall not allow a lot less than 40,000 square feet to be
used for an individual septic system and water supply system, unless the Cook
County Department of Public Health has approved the systems.

Permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as a facility for two or more
uses, provided the substantial use of the facility by each user does not take place at
the same hours of the same days of the week.

Reduce required off-street parking or off-street loading facilities.

Increase the maximum distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be
located from the use served.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE29

F. Increase dimensions or square footage of signs as provided in Article 12 and
Ordinance No. 02?0?05.

G. Increase the maximum gross floor area of any use required by this ordinance.

H. Grant variationsnces for property located in a ?oodplain in accordance with the
Floodplain Ordinance for Cook County, Illinois.

1. Reduce lot size when property has been diminished in size by eminent domain or
by a conveyance in lieu of an eminent domain proceeding.

J. Grant height variationsnces for freestanding cellular tower facilities as provided in
Ordinance No. 01-0-32. No height variant?HM for a cellular radio facility which
is attached to or installed on a building shall be allowed.

K. Grant height variationsnces for fences.

13.6.6. Recommending varia?ensm. A majority vote of three of the five voting
members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny a varia?ennce. No decision of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners granting a variatien? shall be valid for more than one year,
unless a building permit is obtained and construction of the building or the use
commenced.

13.6. 7. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

A. Final action shall not be taken by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on an
application for a variatien? until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact
and recommendations have been received.

B. Variat?ieI-ISM shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all
members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning
Board of Appeals has not recommended approval of a proposed variatienm or
where there has been a written protest filed against a prOposed variatien? in
accordance with Section 13.13 ofthis ordinance.

C. Gummy Beam
{If} day-s ml" 
I-l-?teilt-l?l 
been-tended ?wen-sienisemadehy?meappliemm

D: The Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose conditions and
restrictions upon a variatien? in order to assure that the public health, safety and
welfare is adequately protected.

13.6.8. Effect of denial. An application for a variatiennce which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Zoning Board of Appeals.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 30

of t_he regulations_as t_o location of_structures or as to bulk requirements may be granted by
the Zoning Administrator without referral to the Zoning Board of Appeals and without a
public hearing provided that:

 

 

 

A. The Zoning Administrator has not granted an application for variance _of ten
percent or less of the regulations as to location of the same or similar structure or
bulk requirements submitted hy_thr; 5 years From the

date of application;

 

B. me of compliance with the notice requirements to owners of the adioining
riggertie?s accordance with the rules of the
Department of Building and Zoning;

 

 

C. No ohiection is submitted by the owners 
with the rules ofthe Department of Building and Zoning;

 

 

D. The Zoning Administrator ?nds sought eliminates an unnecessary
inconvenience to the applicant and will have no appreciable adverse -QJJ. the
safety. or general welfare of adinining properly owners or the gimeral
rm;

 

 

 

 

E. A copy of the application is forwarded to the Cook County Board Commissioner
the p?pgty is_ located with a notice of intent to grant the variance
without referral to the Zoning Board oprpeals and without a public hearing; and

 

 

 

F. No obiection is submitted by the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose
district the property is located within 14 days of the date of the notice of intent to

grant the variance.

If any of the above conditions are not met. the Zoning Administrator shall refer?the
application for variance to the Zoning Board of Appeals.

 

ln granting an application for a variance of ten percent or less of the regulations as to
location of structures or as to bulk requirements, the Zoning Administrator may 1']an
conditions and restrictions upon a variance sought under this Section in order to assure that
safety and welfare is adequately ND decision cl" the Zoning
Administrator granting a variance shall be valid for more than one year, unless a building
permit is obtained and construction ofthe building or the use commenced.

 

 

 

 

13.7. - Map amendments.

13.7.1. Authority. The districts established by this ordinance may be amended by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. No map amendment shall be made without
consideration of existing conditions, property values, trends of development and uses to
which property is devoted.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE31

13.7.2. Initiation. A map amendment may be proposed by the President or a member
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest
in the subject property. A map amendment shall be initiated as provided in this article.

13. 7. 3. Notice of application. An applicant shall, not less than 15 days nor more than
30 days before ?ling an application, serve written notice; of intent_to apply for amp
amendment by certi?ed mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within
250 feet of the lot lines of the subject 
be?l?hese?peitseus?Hmties whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. 
gmdominium are located within 250 feel of the lot line of the subiect
propertv. only the condominium association shall_be served with notice. The number of
feet occupied by public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the 250 feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet
from the subject property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in
the computation. In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each
municipality within 1V2 miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local
school district, the ?re chief of each local fire protection district, the township clerk and
township highway commissioner. When the applicant is either the President of a member
of the Cook County Board of shall served in accordance with
this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Notice shall contain the address of the
subject property, a brief statement of the nature of the application, the name and address of
the applicant and a statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply.
If the property owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is
returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the
applicant made a bona?de effort to determine the owner's address.

 

 

 

 

13.7.4. Application.

A. AuApplications for a map amendment shall be submitted to the Department of
Building and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as
required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall ?le one
application and all supporting documents. 11E
applicant sh_all include a written statement and evidence establishing that the
proposed map amendment will conform to the standards set forth in this article.
The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Department of Building and Zoning
shall independently verify, that?aewhether ajudicial proceeding for a violation of
any Cook County ordinance is pending pertaining to the subject property.

 

B. Applicants shall furnish?te?ile with the Department of Building and Zoning a
sworn af?davit containing a complete list of Ulnames and last known addresses
of the persons teJocLserved with notice pursuant to 13.73.. Ami-lieiwrtEH?HlHH?also

 

   

with the 
Hoan?l?oh?ap?als?when 

D.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 32

113p shall be accompanied by p_IoposeIl lindinps ot the! adclicssina each of

 

 

the standards In Section 13.7.9. (A).

 

E_.Applications which fail to comply with this Section shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to the applicant,_and the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. The Zoning Administrator mysha?l?l retain one copy of the application
and supporting documents.

 

13. 7.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the followingdisclosures by sworn af?davit,
tiled at the ti?eiftheapp?gation.

 

A. Property.

1.

Applicants of property held in a land trust, shall disclose the identity of each
bene?ciary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest
of each bene?ciary. 


Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each
partner or associate shall be listed. 
Med-61% evl-i-Ine?llthe ?appl ie at inn -.-

Applicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,
address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five
percent or more of the corporation shall be disclosed. Diselesure?shaH?be?a
eetLI-l Ie app-I icat inn.

B. Applicant.

Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship shall be disclosed and the name and address of the principals and
their interest in the subject property. If the principals are not individuals, the
identity of the principals shall be disclosed as set forth. Diselesa?re?shall?be?a
statement- under- 

Applicants who are either the President 01 a member of the Cook County
Board Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the property or
any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of the interest.

Applicants who are a partnerships or associations of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a tive- percent
interest 
application;

Applicants who are a corporation shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning ?ve percent or more

of the corporation. 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 33

l-iHIen-lit-l-Ie-appI-iemien:

fa" ?e emf.? Seem? Sim.? be [9.5 the

copy? of l?lItHIpp-lieatien?at-Iel?sup 
13. 7. 6. Processing applications.

Upon receipt ol'a complete application for map ame?tnenl. and at least 15 days
before a scheduled hearing date, tIhe of Building
and Zoning shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant?s proposed
?ndings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in
whose district the property is located, and shall noti? the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development, the
Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control that a complete application, includinI.I the applicant?s proposed
?ndings onl- l?tIcL _a_n_tl all supporting; documentation has been and is ready for
Each reviewing department shall
submit recommendations and comments 
at least threes?even ndays before the scheduled hearing date 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:

A. Department of Planning and Development.

Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.



B. DepaItment of Building and Zoning.

Site plan review.

Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
Lot size.

Subdivision regulations.

aww?

C. Department of Highways.

1. Wetland mitigation and compensation.
2. Floodway and floodplain capacity and storage.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE34

Lu

Drainage detention requirements.

4. Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access
control.

5. Subdivision regulations.

6. Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.

7. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies and townships.

8. Erosion and sediment control requirements.

D. Forest Preserve Districts.

1. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.

E. Department of Public Health.

Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.

Swimming pools.

Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and safety concerns.



F. Department of Environmental Control.

Noise and odor regulations.

Soil geology and composition.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Discharges of ef?uent and particulate into the air, land and water.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department ofNatural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

wewwe

The Cook County departments: recommendations and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.

13.7.7. Notice of public hearing.

A. Time and place ofa public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property proposed to be rezoned in such a way as to be plainly visible from the
roadway or right-of?way passing the frontage ofthe property. Notice posted on the

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 35

property shall be maintained until the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is
at least three feet by four feet in size. The sign shall have a white background and
contain the word in red capital letters at least six inches high. The
remaining lettering shall be in black capital letters a minimum of three inches in
height. Notice shall contain at least the following language: "This property is the
subject ofa rezoning hearing before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on
(date) at (time) at (location)."

Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail; 
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing, by the Zoning Board
of Appeals to the clerk of each municipality within 1% miles of the property
proposed to be te?the clerk
of the township In which the property is located the superintendent of each school
district and the ?re chief of the local fire protection district in which the property is
located. applicant shall serve written notice, by certi?ed mail; with return
receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot line of the subject
property, whose names appear on the Cook County tax records, as to the date, time
and location of the public hearing. For condominium developments that are located
within 250 feel of the lot line of the_subject the condominium
association shall be served with notice. The notices shall contain the same
information as the posted notice and shall also contain the legal description of the
property, the common address of the property, the name of the applicant, the
applicant's representative and a brief description of the requested map amendment.



 

 


Supplemental or additional notices may be published or distributed as prescribed
by the Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. All required notices shall be provided at the
expense of the applicant. Applicant shall submit proof of mailing for all required
niices. Applicants shall also furnish a sworn af?davit to the Zoning Board of
Appeals certifying compliance with the notice requirements of this_ordinance.

Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
the adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be
responsible for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and
maintaining records of written notices. The SecretaIy of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at
the expense of the applicant, is given.

Copies all ?lHH?bIe?seweel? 
ten days- Hll?l the application IH- 

 

IlicIItiIIn is- 
shall he sewed li ke 
When the applicant Is the President or a
member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, notice shall be served in
accordance_with this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals, not less than 15
days nor more than 30 days before a scheduled public hearing. Notice and service

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE36

requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements of this
article.

13.7.8. Hearing.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at?least?ene a _public hearing on
each application for a map amendment 
leeateel; authorized representative of any County department that provided
comment on the application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. Ihgl?arjpg shall take place at the Cook County Administration
Building unless the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the
County Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. Provided1 that i_f__the
(.mwner of any property affected by amendment submits a
written regyest to the Zoning Board of Appeals within l4 days of referral bv the
Cuttlt??unty Board Committee on Building and Zoning. such
hearing shall be held in the township or road district [he terms of such
proposed amendment, as provided by State law. A record of proceedings1
examinations, and other of?cial actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. Ifthere is ajudicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the Zoning Board of Appeals grant,
amore than one continuance. The hearing shall be transcribed by a court reporter of
the applicant's choosing. Failure of the applieant_ to provide a transcript of t_he
hearing(_sj_ within 3_0 days following the hearing shall void the application. The
d_eadline to submit a transcriiLmay be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals
once. for a maximum of 30 additional days.

 

 

 

 

 

3. 7. 9. Standards and ?ndings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.

A. Evidence submitted shall be reviewed by the Zoning Board of Appeals to
determine whether the proposed use benefits public health, safety and welfare with
respect to the following standards:

l. Uses of surrounding property.

2. Zoning classification of surrounding property.

3. Suitability of the subject property for the use permitted under the existing
zoning classification.

4. Trend of development in the area.

5. Length oftime the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context
of land development in the surrounding area.

6. Extent to which property values are diminished by particular zoning
restrictions.

7. Need in the community for the proposed use.

8. Consistency with the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies
Plan.

 

meets? Ilie?sltn-Iel?r?tl l-t-i?l?llHl??l?l?hI-lg

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 37

wseek-
good 6&11158' rs-I-rownral-IHUATIy
. Board

 

 

 

Cook


Geek?Gamay;- [dealt-h 
[y loeal


. F?tac wand

 

 

Written ?ndings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 90 days after the close ofa

public hearing on a proposedm nap and
shall be to the Cook County Board of

Commissioners. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development, llie_g?ogIk County 
Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of Highways. the Cook
@unty Forest Ereserve District. the Cook County Health Department, the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control and municililitieiwithin 1% miles
of the subiect property and local school and ?re protection districts sham
considered and addressed in writing by the Zoning Board of Appeals in its ?ndings
and recommendations. The 90-day period may be extended by the Zoning Board
of Appeals once for a maximum of 30 additional days if the Zoning Board of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appeals granted an extension pursuant to this article. hailure (Wit?the?pplieant?HI

 

I he ie-H t-ioII;

QRecommendation for the adoption of a proposed map amendment shall not be
made by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written ?ndings of fact that
the proposed use satis?es each of the standards and is in the best interest of the
public. In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners are advisory only.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE38

13. 7.10. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

A. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed map amendment by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals' ?ndings of fact and
recommendations have been received.

B. Map amendments shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all
members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning
Board of Appeals has not recommended adoption of a prOposed map amendment
or where there has been a written protest ?led against a proposed map amendment
in accordance with this article.

(I. Analleallons?lor??map shell?be?cleemed?demeckII the {t ooh?Granny

[Wm-weewng?Hm

     

 

y?tlIe?maplietIHl?oelaH?Geek
Germ-Ly iss irmel- sn

9: Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the ?ndings and recommendations ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals.

E: D_.Map amendments granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall
be included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.

13. 7.11. E?ect of denial. An application for a map amendment which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

13.7.12. Text amendments. The Cook County Board of Commissioner's home rule
authority to amend the text ofthis ordinance shall not be limited by this article.

13.8. - Special uses.

Purpose. The development and execution of this ordinance is based upon the
division of Cook County into zoning districts. In addition to permitted uses, there are
special uses which may be necessary because of the unusual characteristics or services
special uses provide to the public. Special uses require case-by-case consideration to
determine public need, appropriate location, impact on adjacent, existing or future uses and
compatibility to the planned development of the community. Special uses fall into two
categories.

A. Uses publicly operated or traditionally associated with a public interest.
B. Uses generally consistent with permitted uses which give rise to unique problems

or benefits by virtue of their impact on neighboring property, public facilities or
Cook County as a whole.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE39

13.8.2. Initiation. A special use may be proposed by the President or a member of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest in the
subject property. A special use shall be initiated as provided in this article.

13.8.3. Notice of application. Applicants shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days before ?ling an application, serve written notice of intent to apply for a special use;
by certi?ed mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within 250 feet of
the lot lines of the subject property. The property owners receiving notice shall be those
persons or entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
developments that are located within 250 feet of the lot lin__e_9f_ the subject only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys, other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250 feet
requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within 11/2
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district, the fire chief
of each local fire protection district, the township clerk and township highway
commissioner. When the applicant is eithepthe President ofa member of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners- Iigrtipc shall be served in accordance with this section. by the.
Zoning Board of Appeals. Notice shall contain the address of the subject property, a brief
statement of the nature of the application, the name and address of the applicant and a
statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply. If the property
owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is returned, the
notice requirements of this provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the applicant
made a bonaflde effort to determine the owner's address.

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.8. 4. Application.

A. Ampplications for a special use shall be submitted to the Department of Building
and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as required by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall file one original and?1%
and all supporting documents. The applicant shall include
a written statement and evidence establishing that the proposed special use will
conform to the standards set forth in this article. The applicant shall attest, and the
Department of Building and Zoning shall independently there
is neg judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance pending
pertaining to the subject property.

B. Applicants shall provide a development plan or schedule for phased development
of the special use if the special use is not intended to be established within one
year. Upon approval, the development plan or schedule for the phased
development shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the special use
permit.

C. Applicants shall furnishile with?to the Department of Building and Zoning a sworn
affidavit containing a complete list of tllnames and last known addresses of the
persons served with notice pursuant to 13.83.. 

   

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE40

D. 
BeMAppe?s- the?Presidem?eI?a?Inembei 
yeti?noI?Iess? 


E: Applications shall be accompanied by proposed ?nc?ngs of fact addressing each of
the standards in 13.?9 (A).

E. Applications shall be accompanied by a her: as established?y the Cook C?ounW
Board of Commissiopers in order to be deemed 

F. Applications which leiI ID with this peptinn shall be returned by 
A_dministrator to the applicant, and the accompanying fee will be reimbursed. The
Zoning Administrator may retain one copy of the application and supporting
documents.

13. 8. 5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclos_u_r_es by sworn af?davit,
Eden the time ofthe application.

 

A. Property.

1. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
beneficiary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest
of each bene?ciary. 
Iimethe-appl?ieatien:

2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each

partner or associateApplicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,
address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning three?ve

percent or more of the corporation. 

B. A pp] icam?.

1.

Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address of the principals, and their interest
in the subject property, shall be disclosed. If the principals are not
individuals, the identity of the principals shall be disclosed as set forth

below. DIS?WWI?Weth?L?Ied?ap?w?me?ef
Applicants who are either the President or a member of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the
property or any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of

the interest. 
Applicants who are partnerships or associations of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage
of ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a ?ve

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE41

percent interest. 
timeaalil-hen-ppl ic-at-ion:

4. Applicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or

more of the corporation. 


    

   

g?deeuments
13.8. 6. Processing applications.

l_l_pu t rcc_eipt for special use. and at test IS drivs before a
scheduled hearing date, tQChe Mg?Beard?oMppealsDepartment of Building and Zoning
shall forward a copy of the complete application for special use, including the applicant?s
proposed findings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County
Commissioner in whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development, 
Zoning; the Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve
District, the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department
of Environmental Control that a complete application, including the applicant?s proposed
findings oi" Fact and all suppoiting documentation has been submitted and is reads,r for



.. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

shall submit recommendations and comments at least 7? clays before

the scheduled hearing date.

 

Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:

A. Department of Planning and Development.

1. Economic impact.

Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.

?11ng

B. Department of Building and Zoning.
l. Site plan review.
2 Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the prOposed use.
3. Lot size.
4 Subdivision regulations.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE42

C. Department oinghways.

.

2.
3.
4



8.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Floodway and ?oodplain capacity and storage.

Drainage detention requirements.

Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress and egress and access
control.

Subdivision regulations.

Drainage, utilities and road easements and dedications.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies and townships.

Erosion and sediment control requirements.

D. Forest Preserve District.

1.
2.
3.

Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.

E. Department of Public Health.

wewwe

Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.

Swimming pools.

Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and Safety concerns.

F. Department of Environmental Control.



Noise and odor regulations.

Soil geology and composition.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Discharges of effluent and particulate into the air, land and water.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

The County department's recommendations and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.

13.8. 7. Notice of public hearing.

A. Time and place of a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which a special use application has been filed in such a way as to be
plainly visible from the roadway or right-of?way passing the frontage of the
property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until the date of
hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in size. The

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 43

sign shall have a white background and contain the word in red capital
letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black capital
letters a minimum of three inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: ?This property is the subject of a special use hearing before
the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals 011 (date) at (time) at (location)."

Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certi?ed mail; w_itl_1
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing by the Zoning Board of
Appeals to the Clerk of each municipality within 11/2 miles of the property for
which the special use application has been 
samemamaer, to the clerk of the township in which the pr0perty is located and to
the superintendent of each school district and the fire chief of the local fire
protection district in which the property is located. An applicant shall serve written
notice, by certi?ed mail; with return receipt requested, to property owners within
250 feet of the lot line of the subject property, whose names appear on the Cook
County tax records, as to the date, time and location of the public hearing. 
condominium developments that are located within 250 feet of the lot line of the
subiect pr0perty, only the condominium as_sociation shall be served with noti?,

 

 

 

The notices shall contain the same information as the posted notice and shall also
contain the legal description of the property, the common address of the property,
the name of the applicant, the applicant?s representative and a brief description of
the requested special use. 

 

awne Fa? cage 
or additional notices shall be published or
distributed as prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. All required notices
shall be provided at the expense of the applicant. Applicant Shall submit proof of
mailing for all required notices. Applicant shall also file a sworn affidavit with the
Department of Building and Zoning certifying c11111_p iance with the notice
requirements of this ordinance.

 

Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be responsible
for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records
of written notices. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at the expense ofthe
applicant, is given.

 

When the applicant is the President or a member of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners HipiE??HLHe?applieairmnotice shall be served in accordance with
[his section. by the Zoning Board ul?Appeals, 11m less than l5 days nor 111011: than
301 days he'l'i'u'e a scheduled public 

iea-nl- is

 

 

 

 

 

 

?iI-1teresI?in- ?1l1e s~11l1jeet preperty-z a
+11 her

persons 1-w- en-Iitiea? and service
requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements of this

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 44

article.

13.8.8. Hearing.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at?least?ene a _public hearing? on each
application Ifor a special An
authorized representative of any county department that provided comment on the
application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The hearing. shall lake II agent.111929.91: 
unless the Secretarv (If the Zoning Board of Appeals determines llIa-It Ihe (?ountv
Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings,
examinations, and other official actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals? rules. If there is ajudicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the Zoning Board of Appeals grant,
more than one?a continuance. The hearing shall be transcribed by a court reporter
othe applicant?s choosing. Failure of the applicant to provide a transcript of the
hearing(s) within 30 days following the hearing shall void the application. The
deadline to submit a transcript may be extended_l_3y the_Z_oning,Board of_Appeals_
for a maxi_mum of 30 additional davs.

 

 

13.8.9. Standards and ?ndings offact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.

A. Special uses shall not be recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it

LI.

makes written findings of fact consistent with the following standards:

1. Establishment, maintenance or Operation of the special use will not be
detrimental to or endanger public health, safety or general welfare.

2. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not be
injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity
for the uses already permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood.

3. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for
permitted uses.

4. Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary facilities have
been or are being provided.

5. Adequate measures have been, or will be, taken to provide ingress and egress
designed to minimize traf?c congestion in public streets.

6. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use shall in all other
respects conform to all Cook County ordinances, unless otherwise authorized
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners pursuant to the recommendation
of the Zoning Board of Appeals.

Applieants?shaH?Imlami- epies?ean rI?IpuIsetl- ?i5I 
ne -I- IH-L 
[he Di ?Inc ill?alas:
t-l ings?t?Il?faeL?l?l-I e?L?HHi-ng?BI?Imd?el

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 45

 

- ,hall?iae?eenwlereel?aiitl 


 

Written ?ndings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 90 days after the close of a
public hearing on a proposed special use and shall the Cook
County Board of Commissioners. Recommendations and comments of the Cook
County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Department
of Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of Highways. the Cook

 

 

("ounty?est Preserve District. the Cook County l'lcalth Department1 the (70313
County Department ot'_l3_mr_i_rgnLIental Control. and municipalities within IV: miles
of the subiect property and local school and fire protection districts shall be
considered and addressed In writing by the Zoning Board of Appeals In its ?nding

and recommendations 
The 90- day

period may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals for a maximum of 30
additional days ifthe Zoning Board of Appeals granted an extension pursuant to
this article.

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation for the adoption ofa proposed special use shall not be made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written ?ndings of fact that the
proposed use satisfies each of the standards and is in the best interest ofthe public.
In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
are advisory only.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE46

13.8.10. Conditions and guarantees. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend,
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose, conditions and restrictions
upon a special use to assure compliance with standards and requirements ofthis ordinance.
The Cook County Board of Commissioners may require evidence and guarantees to ensure
that the applicant complies with the conditions and restrictions of the special use. Failure
of the applicant to comply with such conditions or restrictions shall constitute a violation
of this ordinance.

13. 8. 11. Action by the Cook County Board ofCommissioners.

A. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed special use by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals' ?ndings of fact and
recommendations have been received.

B. Special uses shall be approved by a favorable vote of three?quarters of all members
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of
Appeals has not recommended adoption of a proposed special use or where there
has been a written protest ?led against a proposed special use in accordance with
this article.

    

 

9-. Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the ?ndings and recommendations of the Zoning Board oprpeals.

E7 D_.Special uses granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be
included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.

13.8.12. Planned unit developments. A planned unit development shall conform to the
requirements in Article 9.

13.8.13. E?ect ofdenial. Applications for special uses which have been denied wholly
or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of the denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

13.8.14. Revocation. A special use which has been approved but not established on a
zoning lot within one year or as otherwise provided by the special use permit shall be null
and void. A special use is established on the date of issuance of a building permit. The
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have authority to extend the time limitation contained
in a special use permit. Ifa special use is revoked by operation ofthis provision, and ifthe
special use was granted in conjunction with a map amendment, the map amendment shall
be revoked concurrently with revocation ofthe special use. Upon revocation, zoning ofthe
subject propelty shall revert to the prior zoning classification unless otherwise authorized
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

ARTICLE 14. RULES AND DEFINITIONS

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 47

An amendment to the_z.uning map which modiligs a mninL?.
designation.

 

Telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and receiving facility.

A ?telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and receiving
facility? is a facility which consists of a combination of improvements and equipment,
including but not limited to towers, antennas, wires, electrical cabinets, and foundations,
that is operated pursuant to applicable federal licenses and includes antenna devices by
which signals are transmitted and/or received.

 

Text Amendment. A change in the development standards in one or more zoning districts.

 

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.

Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 324315. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Accept the Substitute
Ordinance Amendment for Communication No. 324315. The motion carried, and Communication
No. 324315 was SUBSTITUTED, as follows:

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNICATION NO 324315
Sponsored by TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County
Commissioner

AMENDING ZONING ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 8, General Provisions, Section 8.6, Article 9, Planned Unit Development,
Sections 9.5 through 9.8, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.3, 13.4,

13.6, 13.7, and 13.8, and Article 14, Rules and Definitions, ofthe Cook County Code shall
be amended as follows:

ARTICLE 8. GENERAL PROVISIONS
8.6. Structure height.

The following requirements qualify or supplement district regulations in this
ordinance:

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 48

8. 6. 1 . District regulations. The height of any structure shall not exceed 125 percent of
the height of the tallest existing structure located within a one-quarter mile radius of the
property lines ofthe subject site. Structures located in R-7, R-8, C-7 or (3?8
zoning districts shall not be used in the calculation oftallest existing structure. Property
zoned R-8, C-2, C-7 or C-8 is exempted from this provision. This provision shall
not apply ifno structure exists within a one-quarter mile radius.

8.6.2. Public buildings. A public hospital or institution, a public or parochial school
and a public utility or public service building shall not exceed a height of 60 feet, provided
the building is set back from the front, rear and side lot lines a ratio of two feet for every
ten feet of building height greater than 40 feet. This height requirement shall apply in
addition to rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.

8.6.3. Building appurtenances. A chimney, parapet wall, skylight, steeple, flag pole,
smokestack, cooling tower, elevator bulkhead, ?re tower, monument, water tower, stack,
stage tower or scenery lo?, tank, ornamental tower or spire, roof garden, recreational
facility, mechanical appurtenance or penthouse containing a mechanical appurtenance may
exceed the height limits in this ordinance and shall not be included in building height.

8.6.4. Planned unit developments. The structures in a planned unit development may
exceed the height limits established for the district in which the structures are located in
accordance with an approved planned unit development.

8. 6.5. Airports.

A. Structures subject to notice under Federal Aviation Regulations shall not be
constructed until it is determined by the Federal Aviation Administration that a
structure will not be a hazard to aerial navigation. Applications for zoning
amendments, special uses, unique uses, variationsw or planned unit
developments which involve property located within two miles of an airport shall
be forwarded by the 
Department of Building and Zoningto the Federal Aviation Administration for
review and comment. In addition, plans to construct a structure exceeding 160 feet
in height, regardless oflocation, shall be forwarded to the Federal Aviation
Administration for review and comment.

B. Data relating to an applicant's request to construct a structure within two miles of
an airport shall be made available to the Federal Aviation Administration by the
Department of Building and Zoning or Bureau ofAdministIatien Economic

Development.

ARTICLE 9. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
9.5. - Application for preliminary plan approval.

Notice An applicant shall, not less than I5 days nor more than 30
days before filing an application, serve written notice; of intent to apply for a PUD by
certi?ed mail with return receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot
lines ofthe proposed PUD. The property owners receiving notice shall be those persons or

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE49

entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
d_evelopme11ts that are located within 250 feet of the lot lines of the proposed PUD, only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250
feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within 1%
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district serving the
PUD, the fire chief of each local ?re protection district serving the PUD, the township
clerk and the township highway commissioner for the district serving the PUD. Notice
shall contain the address of the subject property, a brief statement of the nature of the
application, the name and address of the applicant and a statement of the approximate date
when the applicant intends to apply. If the property owner on which notice is served cannot
be found or the mailed notice is returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be
deemed satis?ed provided the applicant made a bonaflde effort to determine the owner?s
address.

9. 5.2. Application and supporting documents.

A. A11 applications? for a PUD shall be submitted to the Department of Bu1ld1ng and
ZoningButeauef Admmisttatien 1n such form and accompanied by such
information as required by the Department ofBuilding and Zoning. The applicant
shall ?le one original and one electronic copy 1?5?eepies?ofthe application and all
supporting documents. The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Bateau?ef
AdmmisttatienDepartment of Bu1ld1ng and Zoning shall independently verify, that
nowhether ajud101al proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance lS
pending pertaining to the subject property.

 

B. Applicants shall fumishile with te?the BweaueMdeattonDepartment of
Building and Zoning a sworn af?davit containing a complete list oft?he names and
last known addresses of the persons served with notices purSL_1ant? to Section 9.5.1..
751-19194" 

this tH-dinanee?

 

   
 

C. 'i 

D.?Applications shall be accompanied by the following documentation:

23. Statement describing the character ofthe PUD and the manner in which it has
been designed to take advantage ofthe flexibility of PUD regulations and the
bene?ts that will accrue to the public as a result of the PUD.

24. Statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD.

25. Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within the proposed
PUD, with supporting documentation, and an affidavit certifying that there are
no delinquent taxes on the whole or any part ofthe property.

26. Development schedule indicating stages in which the proposed PUD will be
built and approximate dates for beginning and completion of each construction
stage.

27. Proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the use,

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.
39.

40.


42.

43.

44.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 50

maintenance, operation and improvement of the proposed PUD and any of its
common open space.

Statement indicating the density of uses including total number of dwelling
units per acre, number of units by type, number of buildings by type and
number of bedrooms in each building and dwelling unit type.

Statement detailing the type and amount of nonresidential uses including the
total amount of common open space and net amount (open space which is not
located in required yards or storm water management areas) of open space.
Statement identifying the type and location of service facilities and off?street
parking facilities, including total number of parking spaces and parking spaces
per sub-area.

Architectural plans for all primary buildings which reveal the style of the
development and the building design, floor area of building types and total
ground coverage of buildings.

Landscape plan prepared by a registered landscape architect depicting trees,
plant materials, grading, excavating, berming and aesthetic features.

School impact study estimating the number of additional students and the
financial burden the proposed PUD will have on local school districts.
Appraisal report prepared by an MAI appraiser demonstrating the value of the
property as zoned and the value as zoned with the proposed PUD.

Tax impact study estimating the tax revenue to be generated by the proposed
PUD and the estimated cost to various taxing bodies of providing necessary
services to the PUD.

Traffic analysis demonstrating the adequacy of the local transportation system
to handle anticipated traf?c volumes generated by the proposed PUD and an
analysis ofthe adequacy ofthe internal vehicular circulation system.
Economic feasibility study of the proposed PUD showing the need and
feasibility of the proposed development.

Sediment and erosion control plan.

Report indicating the subsurface conditions on the proposed PUD land,
including location and result of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock
and ground water conditions, depth to ground water and location and results of
soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
Schedule for phased development of the proposed PUD if the PUD is not
intended to be established within one year. Upon approval, the development
plan or schedule shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the PUD.
Preliminary lighting plan.

Survey prepared by a registered landscape architect or arborist of all trees over
six inches in diameter, as measured six inches above the established grade,
indicating location, species and quality.

Report indicating the existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,

including bicycle paths.

Site plan to scale depicting the following information:

m. Boundary lines of adjoining property within 1,000 feet ofthe subject
property identifying parcels by PIN number, existing land use, existing
zoning classification and comprehensive plan recommendation.

n. Location, width and purpose of easements.

o. Streets on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including street names, right-

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 51

of?way widths, parking areas, existing or proposed centerline elevations,
pavement types, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, culverts, paths and bike trials.

p. Utilities on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers, location and size
of water mains and location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone lines and street lights.

q. Ground elevations on the proposed PUD at one-foot contours with spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales
and at points of special signi?cance.

r. Water courses, ?oodplains, ?oodways, wetlands, marshes, rock outcrops,
wooded areas, trees six inches or more in diameter, houses, accessory
buildings and other significant features.

3. Direction and gradient of ground slope ofland within 1,000 feet ofthe
proposed PUD including embankments or retaining walls, character and
location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other
nonresidential land uses or adverse in?uences, platted lands with
percentage of buildup, lot sizes and dwelling types.

t. Proposed public improvements within 1,000 feet ofthe proposed PUD
including highways and other major improvements planned by public
authorities for future construction on or near the tract.

u. Open space and recreational areas and facilities for public use or reserved

for the use of all property owners.

Location, purpose and height of all buildings and structures.

w. Name of development, site planner, north point, scale, acreage of site and
date of preparation.

x. Additional information as may be required by Cook County.



D?lmlieatirrns shall be aeetmjpanied by inpused ?ndings olifaet addressing eaeh of
the Standards in Section 9.5.10. (A).

 

E. Applics?ions yvhich fail to comply w_ith_ thissectionasball be retu_r_ned_by_the_Zoning
Administrator to applicant, and the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. 'I'he Zoning Administrator may retain one copy ol'tlie and

supporting documents.

9. 5. 3. 

 

947+ Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in order to be deemed complete.

9.5. J. ir'w'ifi'r'urr'rm. The l_}eparlment til" Building and Zoning shall verify that
the application lin' preliminary plan approval is eunlplete and that all required
tlneumentaliun liz??eey sulmiilted prin?njirwartliEL: the 
Zoning Board of Appeals, County Commissioner in whose district the property is
located, and reviewing departn?ts.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 52

9.5.5. Disclosure. following disclosures by sworn af?davil.
filed at the time ofthe application.

C. Property.
4. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
beneficiary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest

of each bene?ciary. 


5. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest, shall disclose the name and address of

each partner or associate. 
. l' . .

6. Applicants property owned by a corporation, shall disclose the name, address
and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owing ?ve percent or
more of the corporation. 
the?time?e-F the-"a I-ieairiml:

D. Applicant.

4. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address of the principals, and their interest in
the subject property. Ifthe principals are not individuals, the identity ofthe
principals shall be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 2 below. Disc?lesure

5. Applicants who are a partnership or association of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a 1" ve percent

interest shall be disclosed. 


6. Applicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or more

ofthe corporation. 
. l' . 

5.6. Striiyg hem Jury. 
sinners. A n- eau- cl

{?eumiity?HeIH?el?e-i
Hi-i?hac-le? to? the Btu'eaH- ele??ar
The BweaaeMdmm?rstratie? Departl ment of Bu1ld1ngand Zo_ni1_1g
shall forward a?eepy?efthe complete application and supporting documentation to
the Zoning Board of Appeals which shall thereafter set a date for public hearing.
The date For public hearing shall be set to permit sufficient time for review
required in Section 9.5.7.

9. 5. 7. Processing applications. Upon receipt of a complete application for
preliminarv plan approvaL and at least_1_5_days before a scheduled heating date

 

tT?he Department of Building and 

 

shall forward a copy ofthe application,

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 53

the app_licant?s proposed findings of fact and all supporting
documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the property is
located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development, the Cook
County Department of Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Forest
Preserve, the Cook County Department ofPublic Health and the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control that a complete application includingthe
applicant 5 proposed Ilnrlings lacl and all suppmting documentation has been
submitted and Is ready for review. 
availability theapplieat-ian and supper llnutlotumm?s?Iai
Ire

eh i-er- al?t It" was 

reviewing department shall
submit recommendations and comments tethe?Bareae?e??dministratien at least
301 days before the scheduled hearing date.

 

 

Each?Gem Each reviewing departments shall examine the application and
supporting documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:

Department of Planning and Development.

Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.
Landscape plan.



Department of Building and Zoning.

Site plan review.
2. Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
3. Lot size.
4 Subdivision regulations.

Department of Transpo?ation and Highways.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

2 Floodway and ?oodplain capacity and storage.

3. Drainage and detention requirements.

4 Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access

control.

Subdivision regulations.

Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.

7. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois

OLA

8.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGES4

Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies, and townships.
Erosion and sediment control requirements.

D. Forest Preserve District.

I.
2.
3.

Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.

E. Department of Public Health.



Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.

Swimming pools.

Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and safety concerns.

F. Department of Environmental Control.



Noise and odor regulations.

Soil geology and composition.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Discharges of effluent and particulate into the air, land and water.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

 

Brian! nilanppaais 

I .
The
Cook County Department's: recommendations and cmnmentsrasewellas?IeEHreaaef
Administration's- reptirl- shall be available to the applicant or its representative, upon
request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the hearing date. qiheEureauef


 

l- th?R-?rr?a- ll?t'ees?a HtI?eests?as see ?i?-ted? wi llI?e x-pe 

 

9. 5. 8. Notice of public hearing.

D. Time and place ofa public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least IS days before the hearing, notice ofthe hearing shall be posted on the
property for which an application for preliminary plan approval has been ?led in
such a way as to be plainly visible from the street or right-of-way passing the
frontage of the property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 55

the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in
size. The sign shall have a white background and contain the word in
red capital letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black
capital letters a minimum of three inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: ?This property is the subject ofa special use hearing for a
PUD before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on (date) at (time) at
(location)."

B. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail; 
return receipt requested at least 15 days before the hearing, by the applicant to the
clerk of each municipality within 1V2 miles ofthe property for which the PUD
application has been to the
clerk of the township, the superintendent of each school district, the township
highway commissioner, and the fire chief of the local fire protection district in
which the property is located. The applicant shall also serve written notice by
certilicd In_11il with 111

the lot lines ofthe proposed PUD, whose names appear on the Cook County tax

records. as to the date, time and location ofthe public hearing. For condominium
developments that are feet ofthe lot lines of the PUD,
only the condominium association shall be served with notice. The notices shall
contain the same information as the posted notice and shall also contain the legal
description of the property, the common address of the property, the name of the
applicant, the applicant' representative and a brief description of the requested

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Gigani-zatien hem
HetilyeeHHc?ee p1911e1ty+1wnei 5?111ga1112et1111k110wewhell net invalidate- the
'"iEIililiH'li ?ha? ha Ialliail?il??i 
pr- ese-r- 1 bed by 
shall submit proof of ma1 1ng

for all requiied notices.

F. MApplicants shall be responsible for the preparation of both posted and mailed
notices and shall be solely responsible for adequacy and accuracy of the
information. The applicant shall also be responsible for placing and maintaining
posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records of written notices. The
Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be responsible for assuring that
notice by newspaper is given.
Ripplelnenlal 111' additional notices shall be published 111' distributed as prescribed
by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. Applicants Shall also file a sworn affidavit with
.l 111' 11111111111111 1* l? 1 1  i112;retiniettinseeittibill s. 1:911) theijptise
requirements ofthis section. All required notices shall be provided at the expe?e
ofthe applicant.

9.5.9. Hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at?leasteene a_public hearing

for a proposed the 

 

WTIIC hea1ing shall be conducted 1n maccordahce with Article 13 of
this ordinance and the Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. An authorized representative of
any Cook County department that provided comments on the application a11d1ler?t-l1e
Bereau?eMdmi?nistratien shall testify at the hearing If requested by the Zoning Board

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE56

of Appeals. The hearine shall take place at the Cook County Administration Building
unless the_SE?retary of the Zoning_Board of Appeals (Earnings tha_ttl_1e Coun_ty
Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings,
examinations. and other official actions shall be preserved in the manner prescribed bv
ginning Board rules. Il?there is a_judicia  proceeding for a violation ol'any
(3(ka County ordinance involving the subiect propeity, the applicant shall not be
entitled to seek. and the Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant, more than one
continuance. Unl_ess_the Zoning Board of Appeals pmides otherwiseJhehea?ng shal_l_
be reporter. The court reporter shall be oftlte applieantis
choosing. Failure ofthc applicant to provide a transcript ofthe hearingts} within 3t]
clavs following the hearing shall void the application. The deadline to submit a
transcriptnmay be extended by the Zoning Board ol'Appeals once, for a maximum of

30 additional days.

 

 

 

 

9.5.10. Standards and ?ndings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
A. Applicants for PUD approval shall satisfy the following standards:

16. PUD conforms with the planning objectives, policies and maps ofthe County
as specified in the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan.

17. PUD is of a type and character and contains uses that are needed in the area.

18. PUD is designed and laid out to preserve environmentally sensitive areas,
natural resources, habitat and topographic features to the fullest extent
possible.

19. PUD is designed in COnformity with the provisions of the Cook County
Subdivision Manual or any successor subdivision document.

20. PUD is designed to provide horizontal spacing between buildings which takes
into consideration the purpose and objectives of this article.

21. PUD complies with the industrial performance standards enumerated in Article
6 ofthis ordinance ifthe PUD contains industrial uses.

22. PUD complies with the parking requirements enumerated in Article 1 ofthis
ordinance.

23. PUD provides appropriate yards, setbacks and buffers between the PUD and
adjacent zoning lots. The applicant shall speci?cally request, in writing, any
variatien? from the required setbacks.

24. PUD has adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities.

25. PUD has ingress and egress designed to minimize traf?c congestion in public
streets.

26. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be detrimental to or endanger
public health, safety or general welfare.

27. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the uses already
permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
area.

28. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property.

29. PUD shall provide more open space than would be required in a standard
subdivision.

30. PUD shall be designed to connect to existing or planned pedestrian and bicycle

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 57

systems in the vicinity.

(J. 4448835- at?tI-II 
1568 444444444346 




whose 4656464


- "4446464416
4ealt-lI 






~14e4?54nm?54444?4?4?4me?34-4


g?BoaI 

 

 

 

 

 

Written ?ndings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 60 days after 4446
hearing and shall be submitted
to the Cook County Board of CommISSIoners Recommendations and comments_of

 

 

the Cook County Department of Planning and Development. the Cook County
@partment of Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of
Transportation and Highways. Cook County Forest PresgyeeDistricti the Cook
County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control municipalities located_ within 4 miles of the subiect property and local
school and ?re protection districts shall be considered and addressed In writing by
the Zoning Board of Appeals In its ?ndings and recommendations. The findings
and recommendations shall include a statement indicating the extent to which the
proposed PUD departs from zoning, subdivision and other regulations applicable
to the property and the reasons why a departure is or is not in the public interest.
The 60?day period may be extended by the Zoning Board oprpeals once, for I46
maximum of930 additional days ifthe Zoning Board of Appeals
granted an extension pursuant to this aIticle. 
. $24 444' 44 . '44

8644446844646

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE58

Recommendation for approval ofthe preliminary PUD plan shall not be made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written ?ndings of fact that the
proposed use satis?es each of the PUD standards and is in the best interest of the

public. 

Gamay- Baa-rd. II 

TliZoning Board of Appeals may recommend; th_eimposition of conditions and
restrictions upon preliminary plan approval; varianeedeparture from the general
provisions, regulations and standards ofthis article; and?Lr varianeedeparture from
any ofthe applicable district regulations when it deems a departure is in the public
interest. In all cases. the Zoning Board oI?ADpeuls? to the 
County Board of Commissioners are advisory only.

9. 5. 1 1. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

E.

TliCook County Board of Commissioners may approve or deny, by motion, an
application for preliminary plan approval. Failure?ef?tThe Cook County Board of
Commissioners tesl_Iall take action within 60 days .Of receiving the Zoning Board of
Appeals? ?ndings and recommendations . 

tar?pial ??le vplaII?appuwal fi?lIIH?vll?elajJ?Ia 

 

   

The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the authority toe impose conditions
and restLictions upon preliminary plan approval; depart from the general
provisions regulations and standards ol?llIis article antlfor depart from 

 

Wis?amele?vapy the applicable district regulatioiIsz?and- 
resti?ieHHI??upon- ll} application when it deems a departure Is in the public
interest.

Applications for preliminary plan approval shall be approved by a favorable vote
of three?quarters of all members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in
cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended adOption at a
proposed PUD or when a written protest against the proposed PUD has been
received in accordance with Article 13.

Approval ofthe preliminary plan and satisfaction of any conditions and restrictions
imposed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be conditions
precedent to submission of an application for PUD ordinance.

. Final Plan Approval.

9. 6. 1. Application and suppor ling documents. The applicant shall within one
year from the date of pIeliminary plan approval, submit an application for PUD
ordinance to the Bureau?ef?Adm-inistration Department ofBuildinu and Zoning.
The applicant shall submit one original rHItl?l??eopies?al?I-he application and the
following supporting documents:

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 59

A. Final PUD plat, suitable for recording with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds,
which includes the following information:

1. Designation of lots and the division of all other property, including common
open areas and building sites. If property within a ?nal plat is to be
subdivided, a subdivision plat is also required.

2. Final site plans including legal description of all lots and each separate,
unsubdivided area, including common open space, within the PUD.

3. Exact location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives, parking lots,
sidewalks, drainage and utility easements, detention easements and
conservation easements, landscaping and other proposed site improvements.

4. Final architectural plans setting forth the type and style of construction and
materials to be used in proposed buildings, including the height and area of
each building.

5. Certi?cates, seals and signatures necessary for dedicating property and
recording the ?nal plat.

6. Tabulation of separate unsubdivided use area, land area, number of buildings,
number of dwelling units and dwelling units per acre.

7. Final landscape architectural plans and speci?cations.

Final lighting plans and specifications.
9. Signage plans.



J. Common open space documents which verify that common open space will be
permanently preserved and streets, walkways and common spaces will be
maintained and repaired in perpetuity. Common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, to a not-for-pro?t corporation or
entity established for the purpose of bene?ting the owners and residents or retained
by the applicant with legally binding guarantees providing for perpetual
maintenance, operation, improvements and repairs. All property conveyed to a not?
for-pro?t corporation, or like entity, shall be subject to the right of the corporation
or entity to impose a legally enforceable lien on all property within the PUD for
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.

K. Final construction engineering plans, signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer, for public facilities and improvements approved by the
Cook County Highway Department. Public facilities and improvements shall be
constructed upon approval of the PUD ordinance and a construction performance
bond shall be posted to guarantee construction of required infrastructure. The
performance bond shall be payable to Cook County and be suf?cient to cover the
full cost of the facilities and improvements plus 15 percent.

L. Detailed plans signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed professional engineer for
the construction and installation of site amenities, including buildings, lakes and
other site improvements.

M. Final construction schedule which shall include the projected completion date of
the entire project and completion dates of any intermediate phases of the
development.

N. Statement indicating current ownership ofthe property and information regarding
intent to sell all or portions ofthe development.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE60

0. Detailed plans depicting the size and location of dedicated parkland and school
sites or the amount of any cash contribution to the local park and school district.

P. Proof from the Cook County Clerk's Office in the [event] that no delinquent taxes
exist on any portion ofthe property.

Q. Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the perpetual
maintenance, operation and improvements of the PUD. These documents shall be
recorded at the same time as the final PUD plat.

9.6.2. Fee. An application for PUD ordinance shall be accompanied by a fee
established by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

9. 6.3. Department reviews. The BareaH?eMdmmIstrat-ren Zoning Board of
Appeals shall forward one copy of the application for PUD ordinance, plat and
supporting documents to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the
property is located, the Cook County Department of Planning and Development,
the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals, the Cook County Department of
Transportation and Highways, the Forest Preserve District, the Cook County
Department of Public Health, the Cook County Department of Environmental
COntrol and the Cook County Plat Officer for ceni?cation that the PUD, plat and
supporting documents are in substantial conformance with the approved
preliminary plan and other sections ofthis ordinance The departments shall have
391 days from receipt of the application for PUD ordinance to furnish the Bareae
ef?Administratien Zoning Board of Appeals with their written?comments. Upon
receipt of the comments from the departments the Bureau of Administratien
Zoning Board of Appeals shall make them available to the applicant or its
r_e_presentative upon request, and allow the applicant or its representative to submit
within 15 days. The Zoning Board of Wan?19W

 

 

 

 

certify whether the application for final plan approval and supporting documents
are in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plans and shall
provide a recommendation to approve or deny the application to the Zoning
Committee ofthe Cook County BoaId of CommISSIoners within 30 days after

receiving the comments fiom the departments. Theammepmm

 

 

9. 6. 4. Preparation of ordinance. The Bareau?ef?Administratien ZgningBoard
oprpeals shall, when all conditions and procedures have been satisfied, prepare
the PUD ordinance which shall address the standards of this article and any
conditions imposed on the PUD. Ifa map amendment is recommended in
connection with the PUD, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall include a separate section in the PUD ordinance which shall address the map
amendment standards contained in Article 13 and any conditions to be imposed on
the map amendment. The BareaH?eMd-min?tratiea ZonLng Board oprpeals shall
forward the proposed PUD ordinance to the Zoning Committee ofthe Cook
County Board of Commissioners.

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 61

9. 6.5. Action by the Cook County Board ofCommissioners. The Cook County
Board of Commissioners may approve or deny the proposed PUD ordinance. The
failuree?the?Cook County Board tesl__Iall take action within 60 days of receiving
the proposed ordinance from the Bureau?eMd?mi-nistratien Zoning Board of

Asppeal 
II hide by the applicant on a? 
A favorable vote of three? -quarters
of all members ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be required
when a written protest to the application for preliminary plan was filed pursuant to
Article 13.

9.6.6. Conditions and restrictions. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may, by
ordinance, impose conditions and restrictions on a PUD to assure compliance with the
standards and requirements of this ordinance. In addition, the Cook County Board may
require evidence and guarantees to ensure that the applicant complies with the conditions
of the PUD. Failure ofthe applicant to comply with conditions or restrictions shall
constitute a violation ofthis ordinance.

9.6. 7. Recordation. The applicant, upon adoption of a PUD ordinance, shall record the
PUD plat, common open space documents, dedications, agreements, provisions or
covenants with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds. Recording the PUD plat and
supporting documents shall constitute notice ofthe restrictions placed upon the property
and act as a zoning control device.

9.6.8. Buildingpermits. The Department of Building and Zoning may not issue
building permits until the PUD plat and supporting documents have been recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds. The applicant shall present proof of recording to the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning. Construction authorized by a building permit
shall be in full conformance with the recorded PUD plat. Failure ofthe applicant to
develop and construct the PUD according to the PUD ordinance shall constitute a violation
of the zoning ordinance.

9.7. - Changes in an approved PUD.

A change to an approved PUD shall be made as follows:

9. 7.1. Mcy'or and minor Changes.

A. Changes to the PUD which alter the concept, intent, standards or conditions ofthe
PUD established by the preliminary plan, and/or the PUD ordinance, shall be
construed by the Zoning Board oprpeals as a major modification necessitating
reconsideration ofthe PUD. Where a major modification is sought, the applicant
shall make application to the Bureaa?eMelm?mrst?ratien Department of Building
and Zoning for an amendment to the preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance. The
application shall be processed in accordance with the procedures established for
review and approval ofthe preliminary plan. The documentation required to be
submitted by the applicant shall be sufficient to provide for review of the pIoposed
amendment. The Bureaa?e?Aelm?i?nistratien _D_e_part_I_n_en_t__ of and Zoning

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 62

shall be authorized to determine the suf?ciency ofthe documentation submitted in
support of the proposed amendment and to require such additional documentation
deemed necessary to review the application for amendment. The amendment to the
preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance shall otherwise be processed as an original
application subject to all notices, reviews, hearings and approvals required by this
article.

1. A major change to an approved PUD is a change to the approved site plan and
supporting maps and materials that altersresults in any ofthe following
elements:

An increase in density for any phase of the development or for the

entire development;

An increase in the approved floor area ratio:;

A reduction in the approved landscape material in quantity or in size

of material;

An increase in building height;

A change in the type of dwelling unit;

A reduction in the amount of open space or a change in the location of

the open spaceg?

Any change in the approved site plan which results in moving a

building more than 20 feet.

2. All other changes shall be construed as minor changes and shall be reviewed
and approved by the BareaH?etlAdmi-Histratien Department of Building and

Zoning.



l?

 

B. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a recommendation to the Zoning and
Building Committee ofthe County Board regarding whether a plan with a major
change shall be approved or denied, with final approval by the Board of
Commissioners.

C. Changes to the approved phasing schedule:

1. 1n the event the petitioner/developer anticipates a time delay in meeting the
completion date for any or all of the phases of the planned unit development,
the applicant may file a written request to the Chairman of the Committee on
Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of Commissioners at least 20
days prior to the expiration of said completion date.

2. The Zoning and Building Committee will review and may recommend to the
President and Board of Commissioners an extension of said completion date
for any length oftime as deemed justi?able by the President and Board of
Commissioners.

3. Should an approved PUD fail to meet any portion of its improvement/phasing
schedule, the BureauetlAdmantratien Department of Building and Zoning
shall review the circumstances and recommend one ofthe following actions to
the Committee on Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, with final approval by the Board of Commissioners:

a. That theCFhe use for the entire area be continued with a revised time
schedule;
b. ThatLteThe PUD be revoked and the property be appropriately

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 63

rezoned; 

c. That aA new public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals be
scheduled on the PUD in accordance with the procedures for
preliminary PUD approval.

9.8. - Reversion and extension.

9. 8. I. Reversion. For purposes of this section, issuance ofa building permit for any
phase of development shall establish the PUD. The applicant's failure to apply for a
building permit within one year of adoption ofthe PUD ordinance shall, without further
action, cause the PUD ordinance to be null and void. With respect to a map amendment
approved in conjunction with a PUD ordinance, the applicant?s failure to apply for a
building permit within one year of adoption ofthe PUD ordinance shall, without further
action cause the the map amendment snaIiLo be null and void and the property snail?Q
revert to its zoning classification immediately prior to the PUD application.

 

 

9.8.2. Extension. The applicant may apply for an extension of the one-year
application period prescribed in Sections and 9.8.1. The applicant is limited
to one 12?month extension under each section. An application for extension shall
be filed with the Btireau?otLAdm+mstratien Department of Building and Zoning
before the expiration of the applicable time period and shall be accompanied by a
fee established by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The Bureau?of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning may recommend and the
Cook County Board of Commissioners may approve, the application for an
extension for good cause shown. Failure to apply for an extension in the time
prescribed shall render the application null and void.

ARTICLE 13. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
13.3. - Zoning Board oprpeals.

13.3.1. Membership. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be composed of
seven members: five voting members who shall be appointed by the President of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent ofthe
Cook County BoaId of Commissioners and two ex- -of?cio, nonvoting members,
consisting ofthe Chairman ofthe Building and?Zoning and Building Committee of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Ghief?Administratwe?Ot?eer
Chief of the of Economic Development of Cook County. Ex?of?cio
members may be represented by a designee at any hearing or meeting of the
Zoning Board of Appeals. As ofJune l, 2013, voting members shall receive
compensation of $500.00 per official meeting ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals
where the member participates in person or by viewing a record of proceeding
where action is required not to exceed 55] 2,000.00, with no other fringe or pension
benefits, and an allowance for expenses as provided by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in its annual appropriation Ordinance. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall report of official meetings it has conducted on a
quarterly basis to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Members ofthe
Zoning Board of Appeals serving at the time of adoption ofthis ordinance shall
serve for the remaining term of their appointments, or until their respective

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE64

successors are appointed. All new and renewed terms of of?ce for Zoning Board
of Appeals members shall be for ?ve years.

One ofthe members ofthe Zoning Board oprpeals shall be designated
by the President ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and
consent of the Cook County Board of Commissioners as Chairman of the Zoning
Board oprpeals, and shall hold of?ce until a successor is appointed. The
President ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and
consent ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners shall have the power to
remove for cause any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. Vacancies 0n the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be ?lled by appointment ofthe President ofthe
Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners for the unexpired term of the member whose
position has become vacant.

13.3.2. Jurisdiction. The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority:

J.

Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Department of Building and Zoning under this ordinance.

Hear and make recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
applications for authorized variationsm, on from any quantitative
requirement of this ordinance, and for all applications referred by the Department
of Building and Zoning or the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Hear applications for special uses, planned unit developments, map amendments
and unique uses as set forth in this ordinance. The Zoning Board oprpeals shall
report its ?ndings and recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
map amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
text amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.

Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
amendments to the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan and
make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.

Initiate, direct and review studies of this ordinance and make recommendations to
the Zoning and Building Committee ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Hear and decide matters as set f0 th in this ordinance and matters referred to it by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 65

R. Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by ordinance, resolution
or direction provide.

13.3.3. Meetings and rules. The meetings ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held
at the call ofthe Chairman at such times as the Zoning Board oprpeals may determine.
Hearings conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be considered public meetings
under the Illinois Open Meetings Act and shall be held in conformance with the Illinois
Open Meetings Act. Ex-of?cio members, or their designees, may fully participate in
meetings, but shall not vote on any matters before the Zoning Board of Appeals. For
purposes of conducting a public meeting, a quorum of four members shall be present in
person at the meeting, and two of the four members present may be ex-officio members or
their designees. For purposes of conducting a vote at a public meeting, three voting
members must be present in person at the meeting. Any person may appear and testify at a
hearing. The Chairman or Acting Chairman may administer oaths and subpoena witnesses.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question. If any voting member is absent or fails to vote, that shall
be reflected in the minutes. Zoning Board of Appeals voting members may not vote by
proxy. Records shall be kept of all hearings and other official actions of the Zoning Board
oprpeals. Applications, exhibits and all documents filed by applicants, as well as
transcripts of hearings if provided, meetings, testimony and deliberations, shall constitute
the record of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be the keeper of the records. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules
and procedures, not in conflict with this ordinance or with applicable State 
Statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary. A copy of every
rule, regulation, amendment, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be filed immediately with the Department of Building and Zoning
and shall be a public record.

13.3.4. Decisions. The decisions and ?ndings ofthe Zoning Board oprpeals, except
as provided in 13.3.5, shall be ?nal administrative decisions and shall be subject to review
as provided by law.

13.3.5. Appeals from decisions ofthe Zoning Administrator.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from an administrative
order, requirement or determination of the Department of Building and Zoning under this
ordinance.

An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person or entity or by
any officer, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the Department of
Building and Zoning under this ordinance. An appeal shall be taken within 35 days after
the date ofthe Department of Building and Zoning's decision by filing with the Zoning
Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
for the appeal. Notice of appeal shall be given to all persons or entities entitled to receive
notice as provided by Section 13.7.3.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for hearing an
appeal and give notice to the aggrieved person or entity and the Department of Building
and Zoning The hearing shall take place within 30 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals
receives notice of appeal.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a written decision on the appeal within 30
days after the hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward its decision to all

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 66

parties of record. The Zoning Board of Appeals may af?rm, reverse, wholly or in part, or
modify a decision of the Department of Building and Zoning. A written decision of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall contain ?ndings of fact which support its decision. lfthe
Zoning Board of Appeals af?rms the decision ofthe Department of Building and Zoning,
the decision ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals is a ?nal administrative determination and
shall be subject to review as provided by law.

Ifthe Zoning Board of Appeals reverses the decision of the Department of Building
and Zoning, the Department of Building and Zoning has the right to appeal the Zoning
Board of Appeals' decision to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The matter shall
be heard upon the record of the Zoning and Building Committee, or a subcommittee,
(?Committee") of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. No additional testimony
shall be taken and no additional documents shall be ?led. The Committee shall provide
notice of its hearing of an appeal as provided in this section. The Committee may af?rm,
reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the decision ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals.

If the Committee reverses the Zoning Board of Appeals, the decision ofthe Committee
shall be a ?nal administrative determination and shall be subject to review as provided by
law. The Secretary ofthe Zoning Board oprpeals shall maintain complete records of all
actions relative to appeals.

13.3. 6. Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
C. The Secretary ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the President
ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners.

D. Duties of the Secretary ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as follows:

4. Maintain records of the Zoning Board of Appeals.

5. Forward to the County Board of Commissioners final ?ndings of fact and
recommendations ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals for map amendments and
special uses and such other matters under this ordinance which require
consideration or action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

6. Administer duties which may be delegated to the Secretary by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners and the Zoning Board oprpeals.

13.4. - Building permits/zoning certi?cates.

Application. An application for a building permit shall be deemed an
application for a zoning certi?cate. An application shall be accompanied by the following:
C. Plat of survey, drawn to scale and showing actual dimensions oflots
and blocks, as required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The plat shall
be dated within the prior sieHaaonth?ve year period and it shall be certi?ed by a
land surveyor licensed by the State of Illinois as a true copy of the property
according to the registered or recorded plat of subdivision.

D. Site plan signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer in the State of
Illinois, in triplicate, drawn to scale in such form as may be prescribed by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The site plan shall show the ground area,
height and bulk ofthe building or structure, building lines in relation to lot lines,
use to be made ofthe building, structure or land and such other information as may
be required by the Department of Building and Zoning.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE67

13.4.2. Procedure. A copy of each plat of survey and Site plan shall be attached to the
application for a building permit when it is submitted to the Department of Building and
Zoning for zoning certi?cation. The Department of Building and Zoning shall retain the
application, attached plats and plans as public records.

13.6. Variat?iensw.

13.6.1. Purpose. In order to provide a streamlined approval process for minor
modifications of selected zoning standards, the Zoning Administrator is hereby given the
authority to _review and approve applications for variances often percent or less of the
regulations as to location of structures or as t_o bulk requirements without referral to the
Zoning Board Appeals and without a public hearing in accordance with this Ii?li?ng,
The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, shall recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny wth? authorized variatiensnc_es under this
ordinance. In making a recommendation to grant a variance, the Zoning Board oprpeals
shall make ?ndings of fact in accordance with standards prescribed in this ordinance for
variationsnges, and shall also fInd that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships
which prevent the applicant from strictly following regulations ofthis ordinance.

 

 

13. 6.2. Applicationm and notice of hearing.

AI, Notice ni'oppiit'utinn. Applicants shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30 dayaI
h_efore tiling an application- serve written notice of intent to apply for It variance
by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners of adioining
lots, whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
developments that are located on only the condominium association
shall be served with notice.

 

 

B. Application. An application for a variatiennce shall be ?led withL?d
shall contain such information as required by, the Department of Building and
Zoning. Electronic submission of application and supporting documents shall be
encouraged. Applications for sign miances will also require the submittal of one
detailed signed and sealed architectural drawing ofthe proposed sign a_nd a
render ol the sign. Applicants; shall itlc with the
@pat?ent oIl and Zoning II sonn allIIlavit containing II complete list of
the names and last known addresses of the persons served with notice pursuant to
13.6.2 (A). addition, the applicant shall fIle a sworn affidavit containing a
complete list of the names and last known addresses ofthe owners of properties on
lots lying within 150 feet ofthe property lines ofthe lot for which the variance is
sought with his or her variance application. whose on the Cook
County tax records. Only the name and last known address ofthe condominium
association shall be required for condominium developments that are located
within 150 feet from the subiect property. The Zoning Administrator shall reject
applications for variationsm which do not comply with the provisions of this
ord i nan ce. A Ine
detailed, signed and sealed {ll'tl?n?tr'lI?Ig?I?ri the- pIrIpI-Iaed- 
mm A copy of each application for
vatiance which complies with ptoyisions this ordinance shall he 
by_tThe Department of Building and Zoning 

 

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE68

the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose district the property
is located. 
EIILt-l-Iegepartu-Ient Bt-Ii-ldinganrl?Zan-i Hg:

C. Notice ofHearing. Notice ofthe time and place ofa public hearing for all variance
applications. except those which the Zoning Administrator intends to grant
pursuant to S_eption 13.6.9 qf this article: shall be published by_tlIe Zoning Board
of Appealsat?least once, not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, before the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook County. The published
notice may be supplemented by additional notice as required by the rules ofthe
Zoning Board oprpeals. In addition, written notice ofpublic hearings, including
the reference number assigned by the Zoning Board of Appeals. and the place.
date, and time of the hearing shall be given not less than seven days or more than
45 days before the lIearinngy the Zoning Board oprpeals shall?beas?fellewsz?Am
Mewsl?ral?l?be?gweII?to the clerk of each municipality within 1% miles ofthe
subiect property 
Gamay?"law, and to all persons whose names are listed .W

 

 

   

Is wag-tn the sworn aff dav1t fled by the applicant with
his or her variance application. 
feekol need only be sent to the condominium
association of condominium developments that are located within 150 feet from
the subject proper_ty.- te-tlIe?elerleef

e?y?B?Nat?tees?slIsHM?lae?h-I
911mg- Beard?II}
Appeals?displaee?late?aad 
save-II 

- 9 - - 
Board of Appeals shall maintain a record 01.0. the method of Iservice?aIIel?thessames
antl? last lenamI?aeltlresses?ai?HI' mihe

I eq Fed?

 

 

 

 

 

D. Hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at?least?ene a public hearing on
each application for a variance. except those whic_h the Zoning Administrator
intends to grant pursuant to Section 13.6.9_ oftlIis article. 
Igpresentatiye?oi'any _L_'punty department that provided {In tho application
at the hearing il'reuuested by the Zoning Board of Appeals. the
hearing shall take place at the Cook CmInty_Administration Building unl_ess the
Secretary of the determines tltat the County Building has
Ingre adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings. examinations.

Board of Appeals' rules. Hoyvever1 the hearing will not be transcribed py?w

reporter unless requested by the Zoning Board of Appeals or another interested

amt in that case the cast 

requesting it. lfthere is a iudicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County

ordinance involving the subiect property. the applicant shall not be entitled to seek:
and the Zoning Board_0f Appeals shall not gran?p more t_ha11 gne continuance.

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE69

13.6. 3. Standards. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that it grant or deny a variance, unless the Zoning Board of Appeals first
makes written findings of fact on each of the following standards based upon evidence
presented:

G.

Physical surroundings, shape or topographical condition of the property would
result in hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if
the provisions of this ordinance were followed.

Conditions which are unique to the property exist and are not applicable to other
properties within the same zoning classification.

Variatieng sought is not based exclusively upon a desire to make the property
more pro?table.

Hardship or alleged difficulty is caused by this ordinance and not by any person
presently having an interest in the property.

Variatieng will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
properties or improvements in the neighborhood.

Variatieng will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
properties, substantially increase congestion in the public streets, increase the
danger of fire, cause increased ?ooding risk to adjacent property, endanger public
safety or substantially diminish or impair property values within adjacent
neighborhoods.

13.6.4. Conditions and restrictions: The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to
the Board of Commissioners such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited
by a variatieng as may be necessary to reduce or minimize the effect ofthe variatieng
upon other properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of this
ordinance. Failure ofthe applicant to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed
shall constitute a violation of this ordinance.

13.6.5. Authorized variationsnces. A variatien? from the regulations of this
ordinance may be granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners only in the
following instances and in accordance with standards set forth in this ordinance:

L.

Permit a yard or setback less than the yard or setback required by this ordinance.

M. Permit the use ofa lot or lots for a use which is otherwise prohibited solely

because ofthe insufficient area or width ofthe lot or lots. The Cook County Board
of Commissioners shall not grant a variatien? which results in the division of a
conforming lot or lots intotweaw?mere anonconforming lots. The Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall not allow a lot less than 40,000 square feet to be
used for an individual septic system and water supply system, unless the Cook
County Department of Public Health has approved the systems.

Permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as a facility for two or more
uses, provided the substantial use ofthe facility by each user does not take place at
the same hours of the same days ofthe week.

V.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 70

Reduce required off-street parking or off?street loading facilities.

Increase the maximum distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be
located from the use served.

Increase dimensions or square footage of signs as provided in Article 12 and
Ordinance No. 02-0-05.

Increase the maximum gross ?oor area of any use required by this ordinance.

Grant variat?iensnces for property located in a floodplain in accordance with the
Floodplain Ordinance for Cook County, Illinois.

Reduce lot size when property has been diminished in size by eminent domain or
by a conveyance in lieu of an eminent domain proceeding.

Grant height variationsnces for freestanding cellular tower facilities as provided in
Ordinance No. 01-0-32. No height variatiengt? for a cellular radio facility which

is attached to or installed on a building shall be allowed.

Grant height variationsnces for fences.

All other requests for variances shall be denied.

13. 6. 6. Recommending varia?ensnces. A majority vote of three of the five voting

members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny a variatienw. No decision of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners granting a variatien? shall be valid for more than one year,
unless a building permit is obtained and construction ofthe building or the use
commenced.

13.6. 7. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

E.

Final action shall not be taken by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on an application for a variatienngg until the Zoning Board
of Appeals' findings of fact and recommendations have been received.

Variationsw shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of
all members ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where
the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended approval of a
proposed variatien? or where there has been a written protest filed
against a proposed variatiengc? in accordance with Section 13.13 ofthis
ordinance.

Cook County

Board of Commissioners has-net?ail taken final action within 60 days of

 

H.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 71

the?applicantT

The Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose conditions and
restrictions upon a variatien? in order to assure that the public health,
safety and welfare is adequately protected.

13.6. 8. E?ect ofdenial. An application for a variatiea? which has been
denied wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be
resubmitted for a period of one year from the date ofthe denial, except on grounds
ofnew evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.

lid. 9. KlJurinisrrmira ElLifti?'??t'l'HKr. An application: for a variance often percent or less
ofthe regulations as lo location ol?struelures or as to bulk requirements mav be granted by
the ZoninU_AdI11inistl'ator withoulreferral to the Zoping?gard of?ppeals and without a

 

 

public hearing provided that:

 

G.

The Zoning Administrator has not granted an application for variance often
[Ereeiit or_less ol?tlle_regulation?as to location ofthe_same or similar structure or
bulk requirements submitted by the same applicant in the past 5 treats from the

date of application;

 

 

Proof of compliance with the notice requirements to owners of the adioining
the applicant= i?ccordance with 
Department of Building and_ Z_oning;

 

No. aliicctiga is submitted battle ewnurs etithe 

with the rules ofthe Department of Building and Zoning;

 

Th_e Zoning Administrator finds that the eliminates an unnecesgry
inconvenience to the applicant and will have no appreciable adverse impact on the
health. sal?elv. or general welfare ot'adioining property owners or the general
public;

 

A copy ofthe application is forwarded to the Cook County Board Commissioner
in whose diptrict th_?_mp?_l?ty is locatedg with a notice of intent to grapt the variance

without referral to the_Zoning Board of Appeals and without?a public lieariitg?d

 

No objection is submitted by the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose
district the property is located within 14 days ofthe date ofthe notice ofintent t9

grant the variance.

lfanv of the above conditions are not met, the Zoning?tdministrator shall refer the
application for variance to the Zoning Board of Appeals.

ll] gi?jr_I_r_i__l_ipg_z_i_u app?galiou variance often peruenl or less ol?lhe regulalipit_s__;_i_s__tp
location of Mturespr as to bulk requirements the Zoning Administrator may impose
conditions and restrictions upon a variance sought under this Section in order to assure that
the militia-t salsa and welfare is advantage Zaailta
Administrator granting a variance shall be valid for more than one vear. unless a building

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 72

permit is obtained and the use con?t?ncetl.
13.7. - Map amendments.

13.7.1. Authority. The districts established by this ordinance may be amended by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. No map amendment shall be made without
consideration of existing conditions, property values, trends of development and uses to
which property is devoted.

13.7.2. Initiation. A map amendment may be proposed by the President or a member
ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest
in the subject property. A map amendment shall be initiated as provided in this article.

13.7.3. Notice of application. An applicant shall, not less than 15 days nor more than
30 days before ?ling an application, serve written notice; of intent to apply for a map
amendment by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within

250 feet ofthe lot lines of the subject 
be?tlaiese?persens?eieentities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. ?g

condominium delelopments that are located within 250 feet of the lot line of the subject
property, only the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of
feet occupied by public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the 250 feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet
from the subject property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in
the computation. addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each
municipality within 1% miles ofthe subject property, the superintendent of each local
school district, the fire chief of each local fire protection district, the township clerk and
township highway commissioner. When the applicant is either the President ofa member
ofthe Cook County Board of Connoissioncrs,_I_Io_li,oe shallhe served in acco?gnce with

 

this section, by the Zoning Board oprpeals. Notice shall contain the address of the
subject property, a brief statement of the nature ofthe application, the name and address of
the applicant and a statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply.
Ifthe property owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is
returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the
applicant made a bona?de effort to determine the owner's address.

 

13. 7.4. Application.

A. A?Applications for a map amendment shall be submitted to the Department of
Building and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as
required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall file one
original and one electronic copy?l??eepies ofthe application and all supporting
documents. The applicant shall include a written statement and evidence
establishing that the proposed map amendment will conform_tothe standards set
forth in this article. The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Department of
Building and Zoning shall independently verify, thatnowhether ajudicial
proceeding for a violation ofany Cook County ordinance is pending pertaining to
the subject property.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 73

E. Applicants shall furnislHaile with the Department of Building and Zoning a
sworn af?davit containing a complete list of th_enames and last known addresses

of the persons te?be?served with notice pursuant to 13.73.. Amalieantfsa?shaI-l?al-sa

   



 

iahaaring:

 

G. Applications shall be accompanied by proposed findings of fact addressinggeachuqf
the standards in Section 13.7.9. (A),

 

E_.Applications which fail to comply with this Section shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to the applicant, and the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. The Zoning Administrator iiLayshall retain one copy ofthe application
and supporting documents.

13.7.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the followingdisclosures by sworn
af?davit, ?led at the time ofthe application.
13. Property.
4. Applicants of property held in a land trust, shall disclose the identity of each
bene?ciary of the trust including the name, address and percentage ofinterest

of each bene?ciary. 
W?ieemim;

5. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association oftwo or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each

partner or associate shall be listedApplicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,

address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning ?ve
percent or more ofthe corporation shall be disclosed. Biselesare?shal?l?be?a

B. Applicant.

Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship shall be disclosed and name and address ofthe principals and
their interest in the subject property. lfthe principals are not individuals, the
identity ofthe principals shall be disclosed as set forth. Disc?lesareeshalebea

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE74

2. Applicants who are either the President or a member of the Cook County
Board Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the property or
any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of the interest.
13'! I?l Fl
pr?l?IeHIl-Ien:

3. Applicants who are a partnerships or associations oftwo or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five-percent

interest 
appI?Ieat?ien?

4. Applicants who are a corporation shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or more

of the corporationProcessing applicarions.

Upon receipt off! applienlion for map I least I 5 days
before a scheduled hearing date, t5l3he of Building
and Zoning shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant?s proposed
?ndings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in
whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development, the
Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Forest
Preserve District, the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control that a complete application, including the
appliyant?s proposed ?ndings of fact and all supporting documentation_has been submitted
and is ready for Each reviewing
department shall submit recommendations and comments [fir-{I19 Seer etaryof?Ihe 
Beard?eHlI?Ia-peII-Ie?rat least Ihreeseven days before the scheduled hearing date. l?-?dd?l-t?l-GH;
DI 

su (Inc-Inna 

WHWIIp?ekrk?and 
property:

 

 

 

 

Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:

A. Department of Planning and Development

Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.



ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 75

B. Department of Building and Zoning.
I. Site plan review.
2. Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
3. Lot size.
4. Subdivision regulations.

C. Department of Transportation and Highways.

1 Wetland mitigation and compensation.

2 Floodway and ?oodplain capacity and storage.

3. Drainage detention requirements.

4 Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access

control.

Subdivision regulations.

Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.

7. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department ofTransportation, Illinois
Department ofNatural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local ?re protection agencies and townships.

8. Erosion and sediment control requirements.

OLA

D. Forest Preserve Districts.

1. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.

E. Department ofPublic Health.
1 Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
2. Subdivision regulations.
3. Swimming pools.
4 Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
5 Health and safety concerns.

F. Department of Environmental Control.

Noise and odor regulations.

Soil geology and composition.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.

Discharges of ef?uent and particulate into the air, land and water.

Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department ofNatural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

gnawin?

The Cook County departments? recommendations and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE76

13.7.7. Notice ofpublz'c hearing.

E. Time and place ofa public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property proposed to be rezoned in such a way as to be plainly visible from the
roadway or right-of?way passing the frontage of the property. Notice posted on the
property shall be maintained until the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is
at least three feet by four feet in size. The sign shall have a white background and
contain the word in red capital letters at least six inches high. The
remaining lettering shall be in black capital letters a minimum of three inches in
height. Notice shall contain at least the following language: "This property is the
subject ofa rezoning hearing before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on
(date) at (time) at (location)."

F. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certi?ed mail; 
return receipt requested at least 15 days before the hearing, by the applicant to the
clerk of each municipality within l'/2 miles ofthe property proposed to be rezoned?
te?the clerk ofthe township In which
the property is located the superintendent of each school district, the township
highway commissioner, and the re chief of the local re protection district In
which the property is located. applicant shall Elli serve written notice, by
certi?ed mail; with return receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of
the lot line of the subject property, whose names appear on the Cook County tax
records as to the date, time and location of the public hearing. For condominium
developments that are located within 250 feet ofthe lot line ofthe subiect

 

 

 

 

property, only the condominium association shall be served with notice. The
notices shall contain the same information as the posted notice and shall also
contain the legal description of the property, the common address of the property,
the name ofthe applicant, the applicant' 5 representative and a brief description of

the requested map amendment. 

 

Applicant sliall

submit proof of mailing for all requiIed notices.

G. MApplicants shall be responsible for the preparation of both posted and mailed
notices and shall be solely responsible for the adequacy and accuracy of the
information. The applicant shall also be responsible for placing and maintaining
posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records of written notices. The
Secretary ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall be responsible for assuring that
notice by neWSpaper is given.
Supplemental or additional notices shall be published or distributed asprescribed
by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. Applicants shall also file a sworn affidavit w_ith_
the Department of Building and Zoning certifying compliance with the notice

I?quIireuIenIs olitliis section. All required notices shall he_?provitlcd the expense

ofthe applicant.

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
Jun 31,2013
PAGE77

H. be served?in person or by the
owner- 5 record 


 

 

When the applicant Is the President or a
member ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners, notice shall be served 
accordance with this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals, not less than 15
dayspogmgre than 30 d_avs before a scheduled public hearing. Notice and service
requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements ofthis
article.

 

 

13.7.8. Hearing.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold aI?Ieast?ene a _public hearing on
each application for a map amendment Ia?t-IIe?Iewn
a_An authorized representative of any County department that provided
comment on the application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. T_he hearing shall take mace at the Cook County Administration
BuildinLl unless the Ficusretaryr oi" the Zoning Board ot?Appeals determines that the
has more adequate facilities for such hearing. Provided. that il?the
owner (Il'any Ingrid)! affected by such [imposed map amendment submits a
written request to the Zoning Board of Appeals within 14 days of referral by the
Board of Commissioners, Committee on Building and Zoning, such
hearing shall be held in the towns_hip or road district affected by the terms ofsuch
proposed amendment, as provided by State law. A record of proceedings,
examinations, and other of?cial actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board oprpeals? rules. lftlIere is ajudicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, HoILSha-l-lm the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall not grant, amore than one continuaIIce._U_I_Iless the Zoning Board of Appeals
provides otherwise. the hearing shall he transcribed by a court reporter. The court
Eport?er slIalLlIe ofthe applicant?s choosing. I?ailure ol" the applicant to provid I 
transcript ofthe days the heari1;g_sha_l_l_ void the
application. The deadline to submit a transcript mav be extended bv the Zoning
Board of Appealsonge, for a maximum of 30 additional days.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. 7. 9. Standards and ?ndings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning
Board oprpeals.

F. Evidence submitted shall be reviewed by the Zoning Board of Appeals to
determine whether the proposed use bene?ts public health, safety and welfare with
respect to the following standards:

9. Uses of surrounding property.

10. Zoning classification of surrounding property.

1 l. Suitability ofthe subject property for the use permitted under the existing
zoning classi?cation.

12. Trend of development in the area.

13. Length oftime the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context
ofland development in the surrounding area.

14. Extent to which property values are diminished by particular zoning

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE78

restrictions.

15. Need in the community for the proposed use.

16. Consistency with the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies
Plan.

 

Hg?l??I-BW?l-lleL?l-B??iu?l?d 

   
 

"gen ii?qrfl a quil t-ur' 


shalJrr 



 

 

iIIa- 

l-Il??-?l?r?i-?ll?IE?F-l 

ll-iIave?Z?IG- days 44nd I Ingsetlfaet

 



(- eel-e 

I on 


 

   
 

ppealII?sha I-l #1 mil -l~i:l IIHI ml

Written findings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within days after the close of

a public hearing on a proposed nap 
a_nd shall be to the Cook County

Board of CommISSIoners. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Department of
Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of Transportation and
Highways,_the Cook_Cou1_Ity_ Forest Preserve District2 the Cook County Health
lall Cam ml and
within IV: ol?lhc subiect property local school and fire
protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by the Zonigg
Board of Appeals in its findings and recommendations. The period may
be extended by t_he ZoningBoard of Appeals once1 for a maximum of 30
additional days ifthe Zoning Board of Appeals granted an extension pursuant to

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 79

this article. llai-lH-i'e-UHhe Applicant to 
clays-4N low-i 11 

QRecommendation for the adoption ofa proposed map amendment shall not be
made by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written ?ndings offact that
the proposed use satis?es each of the standards and is in the best interest of the
public. In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners are advisory only.

13.7.10. Action by the Cook County Board ofCommissioners.

F. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed map amendment by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact and
recommendations have been received.

G. Map amendments shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all
members ofthe Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning
Board of Appeals has not recommended adoption ofa proposed map amendment
or where there has been a written protest filed against a proposed map amendment
in accordance with this article.

H. Cook County

Board of Commissioners has?nets_hall taken final action within 60 days of
receiving the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and recommendations. MG-
bee?fneleel?H?a?Fe - . 

   
 

Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the findings and recommendations ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals.

Map amendments granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be
included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.

13. Effect ofdenial. An application for a map amendment which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date ofthe denial except on grounds ofnew evidence or

proof ofchanged conditions found to be valid by the GeoleGeunty?Beard?ef
Gemrs?enersZoning Board of Appeals

13.7 12 Text amendments. The Cook County Boaid of Comm15510ners home rule
authority to amend the text of this ordinance shall not be limited by this article.

13.8. - Special uses.

Purpose. The development and execution ofthis ordinance is based upon the
division of Cook County into zoning districts. In addition to permitted uses, there are
special uses which may be necessary because ofthe unusual characteristics or services
special uses provide to the public. Special uses require case?by-case consideration to
determine public need, appropriate location, impact on adjacent, existing or future uses and

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 80

compatibility to the planned development ofthe community. Special uses fall into two
categories.

C. Uses publicly operated or traditionally associated with a public interest.

D. Uses generally consistent with permitted uses which give rise to unique problems
or benefits by virtue oftheir impact on neighboring property, public facilities or
Cook County as a whole.

13.8.2. Initiation. A special use may be proposed by the President or a member ofthe
Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest in the
subject property. A special use shall be initiated as provided in this article.

13.8.3. Notice ofapplication. Applicants shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days before filing an application, serve written notice of intent to applv for a special use:
by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within 250 feet of
the lot lines ofthe subject property. The property owners receiving notice shall be those
persons or entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
that are located within 251] Ibet ofthe lot line ol'lhe stlbiect property. only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys, other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250 feet
requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within l?/2
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district, the fire chief
of each local ?re protection district, the township clerk and township highway
commissioner. When the applicant is either lhe President uI?aJ member ofthe Cook County
Board ot?CoInmissiuners, notice shall be served in accordance the
Zoning Board oprpeals. Notice shall contain the address ofthe subject property, a brief
statement ofthe nature ofthe application, the name and address of the applicant and a
statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply. If the property
owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is returned, the
notice requirements ofthis provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the applicant
made a bonafide effort to determine the owner?s address.

 

 

13.8.4. Application.

F. Alapplications for a special use shall be submitted to the Department of Building
and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as required by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall file one original and 
electronic copyl?ieepies ofthe application and all supporting documents. The
applicant shall include a written statement and evidence establishing that the
proposed special use will conform to the standards set forth in this article. The
applicant shall attest, and the Department of Building and Zoning shall
independently verify?hatwhether there is neajudicial proceeding for a violation of
any Cook County ordinance pending peitaining to the subject property.

G. Applicants shall provide a deveIOpment plan or schedule for phased development
ofthe special use ifthe special use is not intended to be established within one

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013


year. Upon approval, the development plan or schedule for the phased
development shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the special use
permit.

H. Applicants shall furnishile with?to the Department of Building and Zoning a sworn
af?davit containing a complete list oft_he names and last known addresses of the
persons served with notice pursuant to 13. 8. 3. F-he- applieant-Hl-Htl-l also-lirrltish- -a

memrgammawm 
WHit?Hi?-H-Bl??-m?fm??t?-?i?WW

3l'l' ills 
Board?615A ppea-ls? 
Goal-eGEH-Hsly?Boardno? mi 55; i iee?s hal l?laersewedu I-Iot?Iess-rt-l-Ian?l?

aw imm?seaw?~ . - smartest? . - mesmem

Applications shall be accompanied by proposed ?ndings olii'aet addressing each of
the standards in 13.8.9 (A).

 

 

E. Applications shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in order to be deemed complete.

 

Appligaiions which Fail to comply with this section shall he returned by the Zoning
Administrator and the lice will be reimbursed. lite
Zoning Administrator may retain one copy of the application and smgporting
documents.

13.8.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclosures by sworn
af?davit, filed at the time ofthe application.

A. Property.

1. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
bene?ciary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest

of each benef Clary 
Hose?ei?l?l-Ie?dpplieat?ion:

2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association oftwo or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each

partner or associateApplicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,
address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning three?ve

percent or more ofthe corporation. 

C. Applicant.
5. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address ofthe principals, and their interest
in the subject property, shall be disclosed. lfthe principals are not

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 82

individuals, the identity of the principals shall be disclosed as set forth
below. 
l-I-Ie-apptiea-tiI-"IH:

6. Applicants who are either the President or a member ofthe Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the
property or any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of
the interest. 
olltl-Ie?applieirtion:

7. Applicants who are partnerships or associations of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage
of ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five

percent interestApplicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning ?ve percent or

more of the corporation. 

{Jr?App! lest-ions i-eh- 


 

13.8. 6. Processing applications.

Upon .I'egeiptuglf a complete application for special use. and :It lent 15 davs before a
scheduled hearing date, tCPhe of Building and Zoning
shall forward a copy ofthe complete application for special use, including the appjcant?s
?ndings of fact and all supporting documentation to the Cook County
Commissioner In whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development 
Zoning; the Cook County Department of TransportatIon and Highways the Cook County
Forest Preserve District, the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control that a complete application, including the
applicant?s prrumscd of fuel and all supporting ducumenlntinn has been sulynill?ed

and Is ready for 

depam?WL?meHd?ammaent?olhe See-I el?ar of the Zoning

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

1r El pl- A nietil~rs 1alH1Hw 

Iihe internship hell-may

erumrrissioner- t?hemwuship e?let- lc?aHd?Hmltieipali-H
property Each reviewing department shall submit recommendations and comments_ at lea_st

7 days before the scheduled hearing date.

 

Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:
G. Department of Planning and Development.
6. Economic impact.
7. Community need.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 83

8. Trend of development.
9. Demographics.
10. Property values.

H. Department of Building and Zoning.
5. Site plan review.
6. Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity ofthe proposed use.
7. Lot size.
8. Subdivision regulations.

1. Department of Transportation and Highways.

9. Wetland mitigation and compensation.

10. Floodway and ?oodplain capacity and storage.

11. Drainage detention requirements.

12. Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress and egress and access
control.

13. Subdivision regulations.

14. Drainage, utilities and road easements and dedications.

15. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department ofTransportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local ?re protection agencies and townships.

16. Erosion and sediment control requirements.

J. Forest Preserve District.
4. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
5. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
6. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.
K. Department of Public Health.
6. Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
7. Subdivision regulations.
8. Swimming pools.
9. Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
10. Health and Safety concerns.

L. Department of Environmental Control.

6. Noise and odor regulations.

7. Soil geology and composition.

8. Wetland mitigation and compensation.

9. Discharges of ef?uent and particulate into the air, land and water.

10. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, 
Department ofNatural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

The County department's and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE84

3. 8. 7. Norice of public hearing.

E. Time and place ofa public hearing shall be published in a new5paper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which a special use application has been ?led in such a way as to be
plainly visible from the roadway or right-of?way passing the frontage ofthe
property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until the date of
hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in size. The
sign shall have a white background and contain the word in red capital
letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black capital
letters a minimum of three inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: "This property is the subject ofa special use hearing before
the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on (date) at (time) at (location)."

F. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail; 
return receipt requested at least 15 days before the hearing by the applicant to the
Clerk of each municipality within miles ofthe property for which the special
use application has been to the
clerk of the township in which the property is located and to the superintendent of
each school district, the township high_wav commissioner, and the fire chief of the
local fire protection district in which the property is located. An applicant shall
serve written notice, by certified mail; with return receipt requested, to
property owners within 250 feet of the lot line of the subject property, whose
names appear on the Cook County. tax recgi'dspas to the date, time and location of
the public hearing. For condominium developments that are located within 250
feet ofthe lot line nfllic subicct property. onlyr 1111: shall
be served with notice. The notices shall contain the same information as the posted

 

 

notice and shall also contain the legal description of the property, the common
address of the property, the name of the applicant, the applicants representative
and a brief description of the requested special use. LB?adda?eB?Betree?eflal-l

 

notic?e?hall he pal-'1 
1- 1-1 le? A ll 1111.111 

G. MApplicants shall be responsible for the preparation of both posted and mailed
notices and shall be solely responsible for adequacy and accuracy ofthe
information. The applicant shall also be responsible for placing and maintaining
posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records of written notices. The
Secretary ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals shall be responsible for assuring that
notice by newspaper publication.?Bt?the expense is given.
Supplemental or additional notices shall be published 01' distributed as prescribed
by Zoning Board oprpeals' rules. Applicants shall also file a sworn affidavit with
the Department of Building and Zoning certifving compliance with the notice
requirenienls oi'this section. All shall be provided Bl tln; 

of the applicant.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE85

H. When the applicant is the President or a member ofthe Cook County Board of

Commissioners Gepies?efan?appliea?tiennotice shall be served in accordance with

this section. by the ZrmingBoard of Appeals. not less than 15 days nor more than
giavs before a scheduled public 

 

 

 

and service
requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements ofthis
article.

13.8.8. Hearing.

The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at?least?eae a_public hearing on each
application for a special usean?HaHeW?in?MaieiHheprepe?y isl-leeated. An
authorized representative of any county department that provided comment on the
application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The hearing: shall take (fnok ('nunlv Administration Building
unless the Secretarv of the Zoning Boardpt' that Ilte Countv
Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings,
examinations, and other official actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. If there is ajudicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, Her?shall?d the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall not grant, more than one?a continuance. Unless the Zoning Board of Appeals
prOVides otherwise, t3l?"he hearing shall be transcribed by a court reporter. The court
reporter Shall be ofthe applica?t's chposing, Failure ofthe applicant to provide a
lranscript_oLthe liearingt's} within 3t] days following the hearing shall Epidulli?
application. The deadline to Submit a transcript may be extended bv the Zoning
B_oard of Appeals once, for a maximum of 30 additional days.

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.8.9. Standards and ?ndings of fact and recommendation ofthe Zoning Board of
Appeals.
F. Special uses shall not be recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it
makes written findings of fact consistent with the following standards:

7. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not be
detrimental to or endanger public health, safety or general welfare.

8. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not be
injurious to the use and enjoyment ofother property in the immediate vicinity
for the uses already permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood.

9. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for
permitted uses.

10. Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary facilities have
been or are being provided.

Adequate measures have been, or will be, taken to provide ingress and egress
designed to minimize traffic congestion in public streets.

12. Establishment, maintenance or operation ofthe special use shall in all other
respects conform to all Cook County ordinances, unless otherwise authorized

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE86

by the Cook County Board of Commissioners pursuant to the recommendation
of the Zoning Board of Appeals.

 




Baed?eMppealstIHaQ?davs?at?I l-Il ieslIeaI 
day


. . 
waIIl?Ihe 
wlII-Ise- 
et- 


ll 


wrilIen?FquIesI?IH

  
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 





. 

+95me . 
BeaukoMppeathmehememHIled



 

 

 

Written ?ndings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within Q99 days after the close of
a public hearing on a proposed special use and shall be slbmittedito t_he Cook
County Board of Commissioners. Rec?ommendations and comments ofthe Cook
County Department of Plannmg Development. the Cook County Department
and Zoning. llIe Cook County and
l-lighways the Cook County l"uresl Preserve District llIe llt?illill
[_)cpailmenl (10!th DepaItnIenl LII Envimlnnenl?l and
municipalities within l'/2 miles ofthe subiect property and local school and fire
Ilis'tI Icls' shall be considered and addressed writing IlIe Zoning
Board of its ?ndings and 

 

 

 

The 6099- day period may be extended by the Zoning Board 0iC
Appeals for a maximum of 30 additional days ifthe Zoning Board of Appeals
granted an extension pursuant to this article.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE87

J. Recommendation for the adoption ofa proposed special use shall not be made by
the Zoning Board oprpeals unless it makes written findings of fact that the
proposed use satisfies each ofthe standards and is in the best interest of the public.
In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
are advisory only.

13.8.10. Conditions and guarantees. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend,
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose, conditions and restrictions
upon a special use to assure compliance with standards and requirements ofthis ordinance.
The Cook County Board of Commissioners may require evidence and guarantees to ensure
that the applicant complies with the conditions and restrictions ofthe special use. Failure
ofthe applicant to comply with such conditions or restrictions shall constitute a violation
ofthis ordinance.

13.8.11. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

F. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed special use by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals? findings of fact and
recommendations have been received.

G. Special uses shall be approved by a favorable vote of three?quarters of all members
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of
Appeals has not recommended adoption of a proposed special use or where there
has been a written protest filed against a proposed special use in accordance with
this article.

H. Cook County Board

of Commissioners has?netshall taken final action within 60 days of receiving the
Zoning Board oprpeals' findings and recommendations. {Ill? (lay- ind-- 

lIe?eJHeI Id ed? ii?raa- eqtlest?loe'a 
antl- I-s- gramed- 

 

Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the findings and recommendations ofthe Zoning Board of Appeals.

J. Special uses granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be
included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.

13.8.12. Planned unit developments. A planned unit development shall conform to the
requirements in Article 9.

13.8.13. Effect ofdenial. Applications for special uses which have been denied wholly
or in part by the Cook County Board ofComnIissioners shall not be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date ofthe denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the 
GemisgenersZoning Board of Appeals

 

13.8.14. Revocation. A special use which has been approved but not established on a
zoning lot within one year or as otherwise provided by the special use permit shall be null
and void. A Special use is established on the date of issuance ofa building permit. The

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE88

Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have authority to extend the time limitation contained
in a special use permit. Ifa special use is revoked by operation ofthis provision, and ifthe
special use was granted in conjunction with a map amendment, the map amendment shall
be revoked concurrently with revocation of the special use. Upon revocation, zoning ofthe
subject property shall revert to the prior zoning classification unless otherwise authorized
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

ARTICLE 14. RULES AND DEFINITIONS
14.2. De?nitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meaning[s] set forth [in this
section], except where otherwise speci?cally indicated. Words and terms not defined shall

have the meaning indicated by common dictionary definition:

Abut or abutting. The word "abut" or ?abutting" means having a common property line

or district line.
Accessory building or use. An "accessory building or use" is one which:

A. Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; and

B. Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or principal
use served; and

C. Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the
principal building or principal use served; and

D. Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or principal use
served, with the single exception of accessory off?street parking facilities
which are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the

building or use served.

Adjacent. The word ?adjacent" means lying near or in the immediate vicinity.

?g?oiningloLAn ?adjoining lot? is one which has part or all ofa lot line in common
with the subject property.

 

Adulr booth. The term "adult booth" means a small enclosed or partitioned area which

A. Designed or used for the viewing ofmaterial distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" by one or more persons; and is

B. Accessible to any person, regardless of whether a fee is charged for access.
The term "adult booth" includes, but is not limited to a peep show booth or
other booth used to view material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to ?specified sexual

activities" or "specified anatomical areas".

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE89

Adult entertainment cabaret. A public or private establishment which features topless

dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or other entertainers who:

A. Display or simulate the display of, "speci?ed anatomical areas";

B. Perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of a patron or person; or

C. Engage in, or engage in simulation of, ?specified sexual activities."

Adult motion picture theater. A theater used for presenting material for observation by
patrons or persons which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to ?specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical

areas."

Adult store. An establishment having adult material as a substantial or signi?cant
portion ofits stock in trade available for sale, rental, display, viewing or reproduction.

Adult material shall mean any ofthe following, whether new or used:

A. Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed material, digitally-stored
materials, films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction,
description or relation to "specified anatomical areas" or the performance or

simulation of "speci?ed sexual activities"; or

B. Instruments, novelties, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities? or that depicts, describes or

resembles ?specified anatomical areas."

Advertising device. An "advertising device" is any advertising sign, billboard or poster
panel which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not
exclusively related to the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
Advertising device does not include advertising signs, billboards or poster panels which
direct attention to the business on the premises or to a brand name ofa product or
commodity with which the business is speci?cally identified and which is sold on the

premises.

Agriculture. The word "agriculture" describes land used for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, honiculture, ?oriculture, viticulture,
animal and poultry husbandry, truck farming, growing of nursery stock, raising of fruit and
berries, beekeeping and the retail sale of products grown or raised on the premises through
one growing season. Agriculture also includes necessary accessory uses for packing,

treating, or storing the produce. The operation of any such accessory uses however, shall

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE90

be secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities. [The term] "agriculture" shall not
include the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals or operating

for the disposal of garbage, sewerage, rubbish or offal. Also, excluded from agriculture are
mechanized industrial animal farms commercially operated greenhouses, commercial milk
farms and commercial dog kennels. The minimum land area (farm) necessary to constitute

an agricultural use is five acres.

Agricultural building or structure. An "agricultural building or structure" is a building
or structure existing or erected on land used principally for agricultural purposes, with the

exception of dwelling units.

Airport. An "airport" is any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for
the landing and taking off of aircraft. An airport includes any appurtenant areas which are
used, or intended for use, for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of?way,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars and other

necessary buildings and open spaces.

Alley. An "alley" is a public right?of-way which normally affords a secondary means
of access to abutting property. Frontage on an alley shall not be construed as satisfying the

requirements related to frontage on a dedicated street.

Alteration. An "alteration" shall mean an chan in size sha 6 character occu anc
7 3 3

or use ofa building or structure.

Animal hospital. An "animal hospital" is a structure where animals or pets are given
medical or surgical treatment. Use as a kennel, or for other boarding purposes, shall be
limited to short-term and fully enclosed boarding and shall only be incidental to such

hospital use. Also a "veterinary clinic."

Apartment. An "apartment" is one or more rooms with a private bath and kitchen
facilities comprising an independent, self?contained dwelling unit in a building containing

three or more dwelling units.

Apartment hotel. An "apartment hotel" is a hotel in which at least 90 percent ofthe

hotel accommodations are occupied by permanent guests.

Area ofspecial?ood hazard. Any base flood area subject to flooding from a river,
creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or ponding and shown on
a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A0, Al-30, AE,
A99, AH, VO, V30ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE91

Automobile salvage yard. (See de?nition ofJurikyard.)

Automobile service station. An "automobile service station" is any building or

premises used for:

A. Retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels and lubricants; or
B. Servicing and mechanical repair of automobiles including, nonproduction line
car washing and sale and installation oflubricants, tires, batteries and similar
vehicle accessories.
Awning. An ?awning? is a roof like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the

wall ofa building and overhangs the public way.

Base?ood. The term ?base flood? means a flood having a one percent probability of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the lOO-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location is
determined by the Flood Prevention Ordinance of Cook County, Illinois.

Base?ood elevation. A ?base flood elevation," also known as a ?regulatory flood
elevation", is that surface elevation of the water level at the highest ?ood of record, except
in areas where the elevation ofthe lOO-year ?ood is depicted. In such cases, the base ?ood
elevation is the elevation of the IOU-year flood. The base flood elevation is generally the
highest elevation of the base flood and usually marks the line between the land designated
in the ?oodplain as the floodway fringe and the flood table land. The base flood elevation,
the floodway and the ?oodway fringe shall be described by the maps, profiles, elevation
data and other sources ofinformation which are listed and on file in the Department of

Building and Zoning.

Basement. A "basement" is that portion ofa building having more than one?half of its

height below lot grade.

Berm. A ?berm? is an earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site,

screen undesirable views, reduce noise or ful?ll other such purposes.

Block. A "block? is a tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights?of-way, bulkhead lines or shorelines of

waterways, or boundary lines of Cook County.

Board ofCon'm'zissioners. The "Board of Commissioners" means the Cook County

Board ofCommissioners.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 92

Book and stationary store. An establishment dealing in books, printed material and

stationary supplies which is not an adult store.

Borrow pit. A "borrow pit" is any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel or
other material is removed by below the grade of surrounding land for any purpose other

than that necessary and incidental to site grading or building construction.

Buffer. A "buffer" is an area ofland, including landscaping, fences and building
setbacks, that is located between land uses of different character and a buffer is intended to

mitigate negative impacts a more intense use has upon a residential or vacant parcel.

Buffer yard. A ?buffer yard? is a yard containing materials used to provide sight and
sound screening from adjoining properties and rights?of?way. The required height and
width ofthe buffer yard and materials used in its construction vary according to use.

Building. A "building? is any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind, and which is permanently
af?xed to the land. A fence is not a building.

Building, completely enclosed A "completely enclosed building? is a building
separated on all sides from the adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other
structures, by a permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by

windows and normal entrances or exit doors.

Building, detached A "detached building? is a building surrounded by an open space

on the same lot.

Building height. A ?building height" for a principal building is the vertical distance
measured from the curb level, or its equivalent opposite the center ofthe front ofthe
principal building, to the:

A. Highest point ofthe underside of the ceiling beams ofa flat roof;

B. Deck line ofa mansard roof; or

C. Mean level ofthe underside of the rafters between the eaves and the ridge ofa
gable, hip, shed, gambrel, or any other pitched roof.

Where no curb level has been established, the height ofa principal building shall be
measured from the mean elevation of the existing lot grade at the front of the principal
building.

A "building height" for an accessory building is the vertical distance of an accessory
structure measured from the average elevation of the existing grade surrounding the

accessory structure to the highest point of the accessory structure.

Building, principal. A ?principal building" is a nonaccessory building in which a

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 93

principal use ofthe lot, on which it is located, is conducted.

Building, residential. A "residential building? is a building which is arranged,
designed, used or intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families or

lodgers and which includes, but is not limited to, the following types:

Single-family detached dwellings.
Two?family dwellings.
Multiple?family dwellings.

$70.00?

Single- or two-family attached dwellings in a row developed initially under

single ownership or control.

Bulk. The term "bulk" means, the standards and controls that establish the size and
setbacks of buildings and structures including, but not limited to, the following:

A. Size and height of buildings.

B. Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines, streets or to other
buildings.

C. Gross ?oor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area ratio).

D. Open spaces allocated to buildings.

E. Amount oflot area provided per dwelling unit.

Car washes. A building or portion of a building containing facilities for washing motor
vehicles using automatic production-line methods, other mechanical devices, or providing
space, water, and equipment for hand washing of autos, by either the customer or the
operator of the facility.

Carport. A "carport" is an open-sided roofed automobile shelter, usually formed by

extension ofthe roof from the side ofa building.
Cemetery, pet. A "pet cemetery" is a burial ground for domestic animals,

Character. The "character" ofa structure or area is the special physical characteristics

that set it apart from its surroundings and contribute to its individuality.

Club. A "club" is a nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members paying
annual dues and who own, hire, or lease land or buildings or a portion thereof. The use of
such premises are restricted to members and their guests. The affairs and management of
such private club are conducted by a board ofdirectors, executive committee or similar
body chosen by the members at their annual meeting. It is permissible to serve food and
meals on such premises, provided adequate dining room Space and kitchen facilities are
available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests be allowed provided
it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective ofthe

organization and is in compliance with applicable Federal, State and Cook County statutes

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE94

and ordinances.

Clustering (ofresidences). A "clustering" is a grouping of residential structures around
couIts, cul-de-sacs or short streets (more closely than in conventional residential plans)
in order to preserve natural site amenities and open space, provided there is no increase in
the number of lots permitted in a conventional subdivision or increase in the overall

density of development.
Columbarium. A "columbarium" is a vault with niches for cinerary urns.

Common area. A "common area" is land within a development, not individually
owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended for the common use or
enjoyment ofthe residents ofthe development. May include complementary structures and

improvements.

Common Open space. A "common open space" is land/or water unoccupied by
structures, buildings, streets, rights-of?way and automobile parking lots and designed and
intended for the use or enjoyment of residents of a planned unit development. Common
open space may contain walks, patios and structures for recreational use. Area used for
individual open space not available to all residents ofa planned unit development, such as

private courtyards, shall not be included as common open space.

Compatible use. A "compatible use" is a property, use or service which is capable of
direct association with certain other uses because it is complimentary, congruous or
otherwise nondetrimental.

Compensatory storage. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent volume of
storage within the special flood hazard areas used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when arti?cial ?ll or structures are placed within the ?oodplain. The
uncompensated loss of natural ?oodplain storage can increase off-site ?oodwater

elevations and flows.

Conforming building or structure. A "conforming building or structure" is any

building or structure which:

A. Complies with all the regulations ofthis ordinance or of any amendments
governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building or structure is

located; or, is

B. Designed or intended for a conforming use.

Consistency compliance, conformance with the comprehensive plan. All development

plans shall be consistent with the intent, purpose, policies and maps contained in the Cook

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 95

County Land Use and Policies Plan.

Contiguous. The word "contiguous" means in contact, adjoining or touching another

object or item, as distinguished from being adjacent.

Cultural center. A "cultural center? is a structure used to provide services to the public

such as, but not limited to, museums, art galleries and libraries.

Curb level. The "curb level" for any building is the level ofthe established curb in
front of the building measured at the center ofthe front. Where no curb elevation has been
established, the mean elevation ofthe finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building

shall be considered the "curb level."

Day care center. A ?day care center" is any licensed facility operated for the purpose
of providing care, protection and supervision to individuals during only part ofa 24-hour
day. This term includes nursery schools, preschools and other similar uses, but excludes
public and private educational facilities or any facility offering care to individuals for a full

24?hour period.

Density, gross. The "gross density" is the numerical value obtained by dividing the
total number of dwelling units in a development by the gross area of the tract of land (in
acres) within a development. This would include all nonresidential land uses and private
streets of the development as well as rights-of?way of dedicated streets. The result is the
number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.

Density, net. "Net density" is the numerical value obtained by dividing the total
number of dwelling units in a development by the area of the actual tract of land (in acres)
upon which the dwelling units are proposed to be located and including private streets,
common open space and associated recreational facilities within the area. The result is the
number of dwelling units per net residential acre of land. Net density calculations exclude

right-of?way of publicly dedicated streets.
Detention. A "detention? is the temporary on-site restraining of storm water.

Development. All manmade changes to improved or unimproved real estate including,
but not limited to, construction, of buildings or other structures, substantial improvements
to buildings or other structures, placement of mobile homes, mining, dredging, filling,

grading, paving and excavation or drilling operations.

Development right. A "development right" is the difference between the density which
is allowed under existing zoning and that which actually exists on any given parcel of land.
A development right is expressed in suitable units such as dwelling units per acre or square
feet of building area. In residential districts the development right is the total number of

residential units allowed minus any existing units. In commercial or industrial districts the

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 96

development right is total floor area allowed in square feet minus any existing floor area.
For inter-district development right transfer residential to commercial), floor area shall

be used for calculation purposes.

District. A "district" is a portion of the territory of Cook County within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply under the

provisions of this ordinance.

Drip line. A "drip line" is an imaginary vertical line that extends from the outermost

branches of a tree's canopy to the ground.

Drive?in establishment. A "drive-in establishment" is one which provides or is
designed to provide, either wholly or in part, for parking of patrons' automobiles from
which the occupants may receive services, obtain goods or be entertained.

Driveway. A "driveway" is a pathway for motor vehicles from a street to a structure

used for service purposes or for access to the structure only.

Dwelling. A "dwelling" is a building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively
for residential occupancy, including single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including mobile homes, hotels or motels.

Dwelling, detached. A "detached dwelling? is one which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.

Dwelling, converted. A "converted dwelling" is any building which was originally
designed for one type of residential use but which has been altered or changed to another

type of residential use.

Dwelling, nmltiple-family. A "multiple-family dwelling" is a building, or portion
thereof, containing three or more dwelling units originally constructed for multiple-family

use.

Dwelling, single-family. A "single?family dwelling" is a building containing only one

dwelling unit and occupied by only one family.

Dwelling, two-family. A ?two-family dwelling" is a building containing only two
dwelling units, designed for two families to live independently of each other, and occupied

by not more than two families.

Dwelling unit. A ?dwelling unit" consists of one or more rooms which are arranged,

designed or used as living quarters for only one family. individual bathrooms and complete

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE97

kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall be included in each ?dwelling unit."

Earth sheltered home. A dwelling unit structure as defined in the Cook County
Building Ordinance.

Easement. An ?easement" is a grant by a property owner for the use of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons for speci?c purposes as ingress and egress, the

construction of utilities, drainage ways and roadways.

Educational institutions. An "educational institution" is a public, parochial, private or
charitable, or nonprofit school, junior college, or university, other than trade or business
schools, including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters,
dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants, and other incidental facilities for students,

teachers, and employees.

E?iciency unit. An "efficiency unit? is a dwelling unit consisting of one principal room
exclusive of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly offthe principal

room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed 125 square feet in area.

Eleem'os nar institution. An ?eleemos nar institution"isabuildin or rou of


buildings devoted to and supported by charity.

Environmentally sensitive. An ?environmentally sensitive? area is a parcel which
exhibits one or more of the following characteristics:

A. Portions ofthe parcel lie within those areas identified as environmentally
sensitive on a map approve by the Board of Commissioners in its
Comprehensive Land Use Plan adopted April 6, 1999, and amended
September 22, 1999, and by this ordinance.

B. Portions ofthe parcel lie within thejurisdictional wetlands under the
jurisdiction ofthe US. Army Corps of Engineers.

C. Portions of the parcel lie within the regulatory floodplain or ?oodway or flood
fringe as designated on the maps adopted by Cook County.

D. Thirty-three percent or more ofthe site contains mature hardwood vegetation.

E. Thirty-three percent or more ofthe site has topographic relief in excess often
percent.

Establishment, business. A "business establish ment? is a place of business carrying on
operations, the ownership and management of which are separate and distinct from those
of any other place of business located on the same zoning lot. Direct access to each
"business establishment" shall be separate and distinct from direct access to any other

business establishment and in no case shall there be access to one such establishment from

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE98

within another such establishment.

Extended care facility. An ?extended care facility" is a long-term facility or a distinct
part ofa facility licensed or approved as a nursing home, home for the aged or a

governmental medical institution.

Fallout shelter. A "fallout shelter? is an accessory building and use designed for the

protection of life from radioactive fallout.

Family. A "family" consists of one or more persons each related to the other by blood,
marriage or adoption (including foster children), together with such relatives of the
respective spouses who are living with the family in a single dwelling and maintaining a
common household. A family may also be composed of not to exceed three persons not so
related, provided that such unrelated persons live in a single dwelling and maintain a
common household and a single housekeeping unit. A family includes any domestic
servants and not more than one gratuitous guest residing with family. Servants or guest
shall be included, not in addition to, the unrelated persons provided in this definition.

Farm. A "farm" is land being used for agriculture purposes.

Fence. A ?fence" is a structure which is a barrier and is used as a boundary, screen,
separation, means of privacy, protection or confinement and is constructed of wood,
plastic, metal, wire mesh, masonry or other similar material.

Fence, natural. A "natural fence? is a fence made of natural growth, such as trees,
deciduous shrubs and evergreens.

Fence, open. An "open fence" is a fence, including gates, which has for each one foot
wide segment extending over the entire length and height ofthe fence, 60 percent of the

surface area in open spaces which afford a direct view through the fence.

Fence, solid. A ?solid fence" is a fence, including gates, which conceals from the view

of adjoining properties, streets or alleys the activities conducted behind the fence.

Filtration plant. A "filtration plant" includes the mechanical process that removes
particulate matter by separating water from solid material, usually by passing it through

sand.

Flood. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual and rapid

accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 99

Floodfrequency. A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during which a
?ood ofa stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.

Floodfringe. That portion ofthe ?oodplain outside ofthe delineated ?oodway.

Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). A map prepared by EMA that depicts the Special
Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones

and floodplains and may or may not depict ?oodways.

Flood insurance study (F15). An examination and evaluation and
hydraulic data sponsored by the Federal Insurance Administration to determine base flood
?ows, elevations, areas and ?oodways. This FIS also determines ?ows, elevations and

areas of ?ood having lesser and greater frequencies of occurrence.

Flood ofrecord. An actual historical ?ood event for which suf?cient records are
available to establish its extent. No uniform probability of occurrence is associated with
?oods of record. However, the probability of occurrence may be determined for the event

at specific locations.

Flood A ?ood magnitude with a one percent statistical chance of being
equaled or exceeded during any year. A flood this large would be reached once during a
IOU?year period, on the average. However, the occurrence of such an event does not

diminish the chance of its re?occurring again at any time.

Floodpro?le. A "?ood profile? is a graphical representation ofthe elevations ofthe
water surface of the 100 year ?ood along the watercourses of unincorporated Cook

County.

Flood protection elevation. The elevation of the base ?ood or lOO-year frequency

?ood plus two foot of freeboard at any given location in the SFHA.

Flood return period. A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during which a

?ood ofa stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.

Flood table land. The term "?ood table land? is the continuous land area adjacent to
the ?oodplain, having an elevation no greater than two feet nor_less than one foot above

the base ?ood elevation.

Floodplain. That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base ?ood or the [00?year frequency ?ood elevation.
Floodplains may also include detached Special Flood Hazard Areas, ponding areas, etc.
The ?oodplain is also known as the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 100

A. Floodplains are those lands within thejurisdiction of Cook County that are
subject to inundation by the base ?ood or lOO-year frequency ?ood. The
of Cook County are generally identified on the countywide Flood
Insurance Rate Map for Cook County number 170316 prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated November 6, 2000.

B. SFHA's of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of a City or Village, or that may be annexed into a
City or Village, are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map prepared for Cook County by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development).

Ioadproo?ng. The term ??oodproofmg? means any combination of structural and
nonstructural additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
?ood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,

structures and their contents.

Floodway. A "?oodway" is the channel of watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining ?oodplains which are required to carry and discharge the 100-year flood with no

significant increase in the base ?ood elevation.

loodway encroachment lines. The lateral boundaries of the floodway which separate
it from the floodway fringes.

Floodway?inge. A ??oodway fringe" is that portion ofthe floodplain which is
immediately adjacent to the floodway. Although this area is prone to flooding, it is not
used to transport flood water flows. The highest elevation of the floodway fringe is
coterminous to the highest elevation of the floodplain.

Floor area O?or determining area ratio). The "?oor area? of a building is the sum of
the gross horizontal areas of the several floors ofthe building measured from the exterior
faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings. The
floor area ofa building shall include basement ?oor area when more than one-half of the
basement height is above the established curb level or above the finished lot grade level
where curb level has not been established, elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor, floor
space used for mechanical equipment (except equipment, open or enclosed, located on the
roof), penthouses, attic space having headroom of seven feet, six inches or more, interior
balconies and mezzanines, enclosed porches, and floor area devoted to accessory uses.
However, any space devoted to off street parking or loading shall not be included in ??oor
area?. The ?floor area" of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials, including but not
limited to, grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks shall be determined on the basis of

height in feet; ten feet in height shall equal one ?oor.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 101

Floor area ratio (FAR). The "?oor area ratio" is the floor area ofthe building or
buildings on the zoning lot divided by the area of such zoning lot or, in the case of planned
unit developments, by the gross site area exclusive of dedicated streets. The ?oor area ratio
requirements shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for the building or
buildings (total floor area of both principal and accessory buildings) in direct ratio to the
gross area of the zoning lot.

Freeboard. The term ?freeboard" means an increment of elevation added to the base
flood elevation to provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future
watershed development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable

effects such as those caused by ice or debrisjams.

Frontage. The "frontage" is all the property fronting on one side of a street between
the two nearest intersecting streets, measured along the line of the street or, if dead ended,
then all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end

of the street.

Frontage, zoning lot. The "frontage ofa zoning lot" is all the property of such zoning

lot fronting on a street, and measured between side lot lines.

Grade. The "grade? is the average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent

to the exterior walls of the building or structure.

Grading. The term ?grading" means a reshaping of natural land contours, using natural
land materials such as soil, gravel, sand or black dirt, for the purpose ofeliminating
erosion or sedimentation problems, creating or improving surface drainage, providing for
the natural aesthetic contouring of property or to accommodate a building plan by making
minor changes in land elevation.

Group home. A "group home" is a facility located in a residential district which is
occupied on a permanent basis by a group of not more than six unrelated persons with
disabilities in a family?like environment. Group home facilities are allowed only when

licensed by the appropriate state and/or local agency.

Guesthouse. A guesthouse" is a detached accessory building located on the same
zoning lot as the principal building and containing living quarters for temporary guests.

Guesthouse quarters shall not be rented.

Guests, permanent. A "permanent guest" is a person who occupies, or has the right to
occupy, a hotel or apartment hotel accommodation as a domicile and place of permanent

residence.

Heliport. A "heliport" is an area ofland, water and/or a structure or building which is
used or intended for use for the landing and taking off ofhelicopters, and any appurtenant
areas which are used or intended for use for heliport buildings or other heliport facilities or

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
Jun 31,2013
PAGE 102

rights?of-way, including all necessary pads, helicopter storage and tie-down areas, hangars,

and other necessary buildings and open spaces.

Home occupation. A "home occupation? is an occupation or profession, practiced by a
member ofthe family residing on the premises, and which occupation is clearly incidental

and secondary to the residential use of the dwelling provided that:

A. No more than 15 percent of the total floor area of any one story is used to store
commodity intended for sale or use elsewhere;

B. No more than one person is either employed, or serves as an independent
contractor other than members of the family residing on the premises;

C. No mechanical or electrical equipment is used, except such as is permissible
for purely domestic or household purposes;

D. No accessory building is used for such home occupation purposes; and

E. No more than 25 percent of the total floor area of any one story is used for

home occupation purposes.

The residence of a professional person may be used by that professional for
consultation, emergency treatment of performance of religious rites.

Home rule. "Home rule" is the principle under which certain local governments
including Cook County are broadly authorized by Illinois law to enact laws, rules and

regulations relating to their own property, affairs and government.

Hospital. A "hospital" is an institution providing primary health services and medical
or surgical care to primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury,
deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including, as an integral
part ofthe institution, related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, training
facilities, medical offices and staff residences. The term hospital as used in this ordinance
does not apply to institutions operating primarily for treatment of mental illness and
alcohol addiction or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients. The term

hospital shall not include intermediate, extended, or long term care facility.

Hotel. A "hotel" is an establishment which is open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a boarding house, lodginghouse, or apartment hotel, and is commonly
known as a hotel in the community in which it is located. Hotels provide customary
services such as maid service, furnishing and laundering of linen, telephone and secretarial

0r desk services, use and upkeep of furniture, and bellboy service.

Hydrostatic pressure. The upward pressure exerted on floor slabs or an entire structure
by standing water or groundwater which tends to float a structure or crack the floor. It is
based on the difference in elevation between the surface level ofthe water and the structure

on which it is acting. Hydrostatic pressure may also be horizontal, imposing forces on

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 103

walls causing them to crack or fail.

Incompatible use. An ?incompatible use" is a use or service which is incapable of
direct association with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous or

discordant.

Industrial animal farm. An ?industrial animal farm? is a mechanized farm operation,
con?ned to a limited amount of space, to raise animals or poultry under controlled

conditions of food, water and exercise.

Inorganic material. An ?inorganic material" is one made from substances composed of
matter other than plant, animal or certain chemical compounds or carbon, such as metals

and glass.

Integrated center. An "integrated center" is a grouping of compatible uses on a single

zoning lot, such uses being in single ownership or under unified control.

Intermediate care facility. An "intermediate care facility" is a facility that routinely
provides, personal care, including dressing, eating and health related care and services to
individuals who require such assistance but who do not require the degree of care and
treatment that a hospital or skilled nursing facility provides.

Junk car. An automobile, truck or other motor vehicle which has been damaged to
such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own power and will require major
repairs before being made usable, or a vehicle which does not comply with State or Cook

County statutes or ordinances.

Junk yard. A "junk yard? is an open area wherejunk, waste, scrap, discarded or
salvaged materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled, including but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires,
and bottles. Ajunk yard includes automobile wrecking or salvage yards, house wrecking
yards, used lumber yards and places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and
structural steel materials and equipment. Ajunk yard does not include uses established

entirely within enclosed buildings.

Kennel, commercial. A ?commercial kennel" is any premises or portion thereof on
which more than three dogs, cats or other domestic animals over six months of age are
kept, boarded, bred, or cared for, in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of

sale.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 104

Lake. A "lake" is any natural or manmade body of water surrounded by land.

Land?ll, solid waste. A "solid waste land?ll" is the depositing of strictly inorganic
nonputrescible materials and earth on a site that is below the normal elevation of adjacent
lands for the purpose of bringing the site up to the average grade of adjacent parcels. This
operation may be run as a business or may be noncommercial in nature. This type of
land?ll does not include normal grading of land prior to development.

Land?ll, dump. A "dump land?ll" is the uncontrolled depositing of refuse on a site
without adequate control of the operation.

Land?ll, sanitary. A "sanitary land?ll" is a site for waste disposal of nonhazardous and
nonmedical farm, residential, commercial or industrial waste, using sanitary land ?lling

techniques.

Limited access highway. A ?limited access highway" is a traf?c way, including
expressways and toll roads for through traf?c, in respect to which owners or occupants of
abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access, except at such
points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authorityjurisdiction over

such traf?c way.

Live entertainment. The term "live entertainment" means any musical act (including
karaoke), theatrical act (including stand-up comedy), play, revue, scene, dance act or song
and dance act, or any combination thereof, performed by one or more persons, whether or
not they are compensated for the performance. Live entertainment applies to privately
owned premises that are open to the public, whether or not admission is charged.

Lodge. A "lodge" is a hall or meeting place ofa local branch or the members
composing such a branch ofa fraternal order, or society, such as the Masons, Knights of
Columbus, Moose, American Legion and other similar organizations. It is permissible to
serve food and meals on such premises, provided adequate dining room space and kitchen
facilities are available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests is be
allowed provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common
objective by the organization, and is in compliance with applicable Federal, State and

Cook County statutes and ordinances.

Lodging room. A "lodging room? is a room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but
without cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of rooms
without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be

counted as one lodging room for the purpose of this comprehensive amendment.

Lodging/rouse. A "Iodginghouse? is a building originally designed for or used as a

single?family dwelling, all or a portion ofwhich contains lodging rooms which

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE105

accommodate persons who are not members of the operator's family. Lodging or meals, or

both, are provided for compensation on a weekly or basis.

Long-term carefacilily. A "long?term care facility" is an institution or a distinct part of
an institution that is licensed or approved to provide health care under medical supervision

for twenty-four or more consecutive hours to two or more patients.

Lot. A ?lot" is a zoning lot, except as the context shall indicate a lot of record, in which

case a "lot? is a lot of record.

Lot area, grass. The gross lot area? is the area of a horizontal plane bounded by the

front, side and rear lot lines.

Lot, buildable area. The "buildable area" ofa zoning lot is the space remaining on a
zoning lot after the minimum open space requirements ofthis ordinance have been

complied.

Lot, corner. A "corner lot" is a lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior

angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.

Lot coverage. The "lot coverage? ofa lot is area ofa lot occupied by the principal and

accessory buildings.

Lot depth. The "lot depth" is the mean horizontal distance between the front lot line

and the rear lot line ofa lot, measured within the lot boundaries.

Lot?ontage. The ?lot frontage" is that boundary ofa lot along a public or private

street.
Lot, interior. An "interior lot" is a lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.

Lot line. A "lot line" is a property boundary line of lot. When a lot extends to an

abutting street or alley, the lot line shall be the closest street or alley line.

line, front. The "front lot line" shall be that boundary ofa lot which is along an
existing or dedicated public lot which is along an existing or dedicated public street or,
where no public street exists, is along a public way; where such public way is not a
dedicated street the right-of?way of such public way shall be deemed to be 66 feet, unless
otherwise provided. On a corner lot the lot line having the shortest length abutting a street

line shall be the front lot line.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 106

Lot line, rear. The "rear lot line? shall be that boundary ofa lot which is most distant

from, and is, or is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line.

Lot line, side. The "side lot line" shall be any boundary ofa lot which is not a front lot

line or a rear lot line.

Lot ofrecord. A "lot of record" is a lot which is a part ofa Subdivision or a parcel of
land the plat of which has been recorded in the Of?ce ofthe Recorder of Deeds of Cook
County or registered in the Office of the Registrar of Titles of Cook County prior to the

effective date of this zoning ordinance.

Lot, reversed corner. A "reversed corner lot" is a corner lot the street side lot line of

which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line ofthe first lot to its rear.

Lot, through. A "through lot" is a lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two more
or less parallel public streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot both street

lines shall be deemed front lot lines.

Lot width. The ?lot width" is the mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of
a lot, measured within the lot boundary.

Lot, zoning. A "zoning lot" is a single tract ofa land located within a single block,
which is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon
as a unit, under single ownership or control. A "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a
lot of record.

Map Amendment. An amendment to the zoning map which modifies a property?s

zoning designation.

Marquee or canopy. A "marquee or canopy" is a roof like structure of a permanent
nature which projects from the wall ofa building and overhangs the public way.

Massage. The performance of manipulative exercises upon the human body of another
by rubbing, kneading, stroking or tapping with the hand or hands, or with any mechanical

or bathing device.
Massage parlor. A place, establishment or facility where a massage is made available.

Massage school. A place, establishment or facility which provides instructions in the

theory, method and practice of massage.

Mezzanine. A "mezzanine" is an intermediate or fractional stor between the floor and


ceiling ofa main story used for a purpose accessory to the principal use. A mezzanine is

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 107

usuallyjust above the ground or main ?oor and extends over only part ofthe main ?oor.
Micron. A "micron" is a unit of length equal to 1/l,000 part of .00] millimeter.

Mobile home. See definition set forth in Mobile Home Park Ordinance of Cook County
[Chapter 1 10, Article 11 of the Code].

Mobile home park. See definition set forth in Mobile Home Park Ordinance of Cook
County [Chapter_@, Article 11 of the Code].

Moderate burning material. A "moderate burning material" is a material which in itself

does not support combustion and which is consumed slowly as it burns.

Motel. A "motel" is an establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached
living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot. Motels are designed for use by transient motor vehicle tourists, and provide for
parking space adjacent to a sleeping room. A motel furnishes customary hotel services
such as maid service and laundering oflinen, telephone and secretarial or desk service, and
the use and upkeep of furniture. In a motel less than 20 percent ofthe living and sleeping
accommodations are occupied or designed for occupancy by persons other than transient

motor vehicle tourists.

Motor ?eight terminal. A ?motor freight terminal" is a building or area in which
freight brought by motor truck is assembled and/0r stored for routing in intrastate and

interstate shipment by motor truck.

Motor vehicle. A "motor vehicle" is any passenger vehicle, recreational

vehicle, truck, truck-trailer or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.

Nameplate. A "nameplate? is a sign indicating the name and address ofa building, the
name of an occupant ofa building and/or the practice ofa permitted occupation in a

building.

Noncoriformmg building or structure. A nonconforming building or structure? is any
building or structure or portion thereof lawfully existing at the time of adoption ofthis

ordinance, or any subsequent amendment, which:

A. Does not comply with all of the regulations ofthis ordinance, or of any
subsequent amendment, for the zoning district in which such building or
structure is located; or

B. Is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.

Noneori ormin lot. A nonconformin lot" is a lot of record which when recorded
. 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 108

met the minimum lot area and other dimension requirements ofthe zoning ordinance of
Cook County, but through subsequent amendments to such ordinances or other acts ofa
public body, has become a lot ofrecord in conflict with the minimum lot area and/or other
dimension requirements of Cook County.

Nonconforming use. A nonconforming use" is any use ofland, buildings or structures
lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this ordinance, or any subsequent amendment,
which use does not comply with the permitted uses in the zoning district in which such use

is located.

Nonputrescible material. A "nonputrescible material" is a material or substance not

subject to decomposition or decay.

Octave band. An "octave band" is a means of dividing the range of sound frequencies

into octaves in order to classify sound according to pitch.

Octave band ?lter. An "octave band filter" is an electrical frequency analyzer designed
according to standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in

conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave intervals.

Odorous matter. An "odorous matter" is any matter that yields an odor which is

offensive in any way.

Ordinance(s). Any reference to ?ordinance(s)? shall be construed as meaning any
applicable Cook County ordinance. Reference to "this ordinance" shall be construed as

meaning the Cook County Zoning Ordinance of 2001.

Organic material. An "organic material" is a material or substance composed of
chemical compounds of carbon in combination with other chemical elements (often
hydrogen) and generally manufactured in the life processes of plants and animals. Organic
substances include paper, wood, food and plastic as well as the waste products ofthese and

similar materials.

Particulate matter. A "particulate matter" is material, other than water, which is
suspended in or discharged into the atmOSphere in a ?nely divided form as a liquid or gold.

Performance standard. A "performance standard is a criterion established to control
noise, odor, smoke, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards or glare
or heat generated by, or inherent in, uses ofland or buildings. The more frequently used

performance criteria include:

A. Active to intense burning is the rate of combustion described by materials that
burn with a high degree of activity and are consumed rapidly. Examples

include sawdust, powdered magnesium and pyrozylin.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE109

B. Closed cup?ash point is the lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid,
under prescribed conditions, will give offa flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily.

C. Decibel is a unit which describes the sound pressure level or intensity of

sound. A sound level meter is calibrated in decibels.

Planned unit development (PUD). A "planned unit development" is a tract of land
which is developed as a unit under single ownership or unified control, which includes one
or more principal buildings or uses, and is processed under the planned unit development

provisions ofthis ordinance.

Planned unit development plat. A "planned unit development plat? is a drawing or map
made to measurable scale upon which is presented a description and definition of the way
in which the design requirements ofthe planned unit development are to be met. A plat is

intended for recording with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds.

Private water supply. A ?private water supply? is any facility which furnishes water
for general domestic purposes which serves less than ten separate lots or premises.

Property lines. ?Property lines? are the lines bounding a zoning lot, as de?ned herein.

Public way. A "public way" is any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public
thoroughfare.

Pumping station. A "pumping station" is a station at which sewage, storm water or

water is pumped to a higher level.

Railroad right-of-way. A ?railroad right-of-way" is a strip of land with tracks and
auxiliary facilities for track operation, but not including freight depots or stations, loading

platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops, or railroad car yards.

Recording (ofa document). A ?recording" shall mean to officially record a document
in the Office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds or when it was applicable, to have
registered a document (in Torrens) with the Cook County Registrar of Titles.

club. A "recreational club" is a nonpro?t association of persons who are
bona fide members paying annual dues and who own, hire, or leases land or buildings or a
portion thereof. The use of such premises are restricted primarily to the principal use,
which is a generally recognized sport or recreational activity. The premises shall be
restricted to members and their guests. The affairs and management of such recreational
club are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by
the members at their annual meeting. It is permissible to serve food and meals on such
premises, provided adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The

sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests is allowed provided it is secondary

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 110

and incidental to the promotion of some recognized sport or recreational activity and is in

compliance with applicable Federal, State, and Cook County statutes and ordinances.

Reservoir. The term "reservoir" is commonly applied to waters held in storage in either
arti?cial or natural basins and impoundments primarily for a source of water for power,

municipal, industrial domestic or flood control uses.

Reservoir parking. A "reservoir parking" facility provides off-street parking spaces for
automobiles awaiting entrance to a particular establishment.

Retention. A "retention" is the permanent on?site maintenance of storm water.

Ringelmann Chart. The "Ringelmann ChaIt? is one which is described in the U.S.
Bureau of Mines Information Circular 6888, on which are illustrated graduated shades of
grey for use in estimating the light-obscuring capacity of smoke.

Ringelmann Number. The "Ringelmann Number? is the number appearing on the
Ringelmann Chart ascribed by the observer to the density of the smoke emission. Where
the density of light obstructing capacity of the smoke as observed falls between two
consecutive Ringelmann Numbers, the lower Ringelmann Number shall be considered the
density ofthe smoke observed.

Risk premium rate zones. A "?ood hazard area" is designated according to the degree
of flooding an area would experience during a base flood. The symbols used to designate

these zones are as follows:

A. "A?-Areas of 00-year ?ood; base ?ood elevation and flood hazard factors not
determined.

B. "AO"-Areas of lOO-year shallow ?ooding where depths are between one and
three feet; average depths of inundations are shown, but no ?ood hazard
factors are determined.

C. ?AH"-Areas of 00-year shallow ?ooding where depths are between one and
three feet; base ?ood elevations are shown, but no ?ood hazard factors are
determined.

D. ?Al "?Areas of I 00?year ?ood; base ?ood.

E. "A30?-elevations and ?ood hazard factors determined.

F. ?B?-Areas between limits of the lOO-year ?ood and SOD-year ?ood; or certain
areas subject to ]00-year ?ooding with average depths less than one foot or
where the contributing drainage area is less than one square mile; or areas
protected by levees from the base ?ood (medium shading).

G. ?C?-Areas of minimal ?ooding (no shading).

Riverine. A ?riverine" relates to, is formed by or resembles a river (including

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 111

tributaries), stream, creek or brook.

Roadside stand A "roadside stand" is a structure erected for the display and sale of
agricultural products. Agricultural products are generally grown on site or on other
premises owned or used by the operator of the roadside stand. There are two distinct types

of roadside stand operations:

A. Accessory roadside stand An "accessory roadside? stand is located on the
same premises as a farm which is in conformance with this ordinance. All
products or produce not grown on land owned by the operator of the roadside
stand must be certified by the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals as being
ofa purely agricultural nature. An accessory roadside stand may be no more
than one story in height nor may it contain more than 500 square feet of retail

floor area.

B. A commercial roadside stand. A "commercial roadside" stand is located apart
from a functioning farm, and it generally sells products which are grown off
the premises. It must be located in a commercial zoning district and comply
with all site and structure provisions of the applicable zoning district. A
commercial roadside stand may sell up to ?ve products not of an agricultural
nature if so authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals.

Sanitary land?ll. See Land?ll, sanitary.

Sanitary land?lling. A ?sanitary land filling" is an engineered method of waste
disposal where the waste is spread in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical
volume and covered with earth and/or sod at the end of each working day, or more

frequently, as conditions warrant.

Setback. A "setback" is the minimum horizontal distance between the building or

structure and any _lot line.

Sewage treatment plant. A "sewage treatment plant" includes any method,
construction, device or appliance appurtenant thereto, used for the purpose of treating,
neutralizing, stabilizing, disinfecting or disposing of sewage, industrial waste or other
wastes, or for the recovery of by-products from such sewage, industrial wastes or other

wastes.

Sign. A "sign" is a name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or placed directly or indirectly upon or adjacent to burldings, structures or
zoning lots and which directs attention to objects, products, places, activities, persons,

institutions, organizations or businesses. However, signs shall not include any display of

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 112

official court or public office notices nor_shall signs include flags, emblems or insignias of
nations, political units, schools or religious groups. Signs as de?ned here do not include

signs located completely within an enclosed building.

Sign, advertising. An "advertising sign" is a sign which directs attention to businesses,

commodities, services or entertainment.

Sign, billboard. A "billboard sign" is a sign that directs attention to a business, person,
activity, commodity, product, good, service, or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at

a location other than the premises on which the sign is located.

Sign, identi?cation. An ?identification sign" is a sign which states the name of the
residents, businesses, developments or establishments, and/or the address of the buildings
or developments, and/or the occupation of the residents or tenants, but which do not

contain any advertising.

Sign, illuminated. An "illuminated sign" is a Sign with a source ofillumination that is a

fundamental part ofthe sign.

Sign, indirectly illuminated An "indirectly illuminated sign" is a sign with a source of
illumination which is accessory to the sign and where such source ofillumination is

intended to indirectly illuminate such sign.

Sign, multiple message. A ?multiple message sign" means a billboard or off-premises
outdoor advertising sign that displays a series of message changes, regardless of the
technology used. A multiple message sign provides for a fixed message of at least ten
seconds in length with a transition time between message changes ofthree seconds or less-
Multiple message signs contain a default design that will freeze the message in one

position ifa malfunction occurs.

Sign, novelty. A "novelty sign? is a banner, ?ag, pennant, object, streamer or other
attention-getting device or display including, but not limited to, inflated objects which are

attached to buildings or property.

Sign, offpremises. An "off-premises sign" means any sign that relates to a business,
person, activity, good, product, service or facility which is unrelated to the principal use on

a zoning lot.

Sign, on-premises. An "on?premises sign" means any sign that relates to a business,
person, activity, good, product, service or facility which is related to the principal use on a

zoning lot.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 113

Sign, portable. A ?portable sign" means any sign that is not permanently attached to

the ground, structure or building and which is designed to be transported.

Sign, signface area. The" sign face area ofa sign" shall be the entire area within a

single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits ofthe sign.

Sign, temporary. A "temporary sign" means any sign which contains information
which is not of a permanent character, or the physical features of such sign, such as its
structure, is not ofa permanent character, or both. Such signs include, but are not limited
to, political signs, garage sale signs, real estate signs, and for rent signs, but do not include
novelty signs.

Sign, tra?ic. A "traffic sign" means a sign which directs or guides a person to a facility
intended to serve the public, including entrances, exits, restrooms, public telephones,
walkways, parking areas and similar facilities. Traffic signs shall not identify an
establishment or other goods and services available at an establishment and shall not

contain advertising messages.

Similar use. A "similar use? is a property, use or service possessing physical and/or

activity characteristics which resemble certain other uses.

Slow burning or incombustible materials. "Slow burning" or "incombustible? material
identi?es materials which do not in themselves constitute an active fuel for the spread of
combustion. A material which will not ignite, nor actively support combustion during an
exposure for five minutes at a temperature of 1200 degrees Fahrenheit, shall be designated

?incombustible?.

Smoke unit. A "smoke unit" is the number obtained when the smoke density in
Ringelmann number is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute during
the period of observation, each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during
which it was observed. The various products are then added together to give the total

number of smoke units observed during the entire observation period.

Sound level. A "sound level" of an Operation or use is the intensity of sound, measured

in decibels, produced by such operation or use.

Sound level, meter. A "sound level meter? is an instrument designed to measure sound
pressure levels and constructed in accordance with the requirements for General Purpose
Sound Level Meters published in the American National Standards Institute Standard No.

81.4-1971 or its latest revision.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 114

Soundpressure level. A "sound pressure Ievel'I is the intensity ofa sound, measured in

decibels.
Speci?ed anatomical areas. A "specified anatomical area? is de?ned as:

A. Anatomical areas if less than completely and opaquely covered by a bathing
suit, blouse, shirt, dress, pants, leotard or other wearing apparel or fabric.

1. Any portion ofthe genitals or pubic region.

Any portion of the buttocks.

3. Female breast(s) below a horizontal line across the breast at a point
immediately above the top of the areola, including the entire lower
portion ofthe female breast, but shall not include any portion ofthe
cleavage of the female breast.

B. Genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.

C. Paint, latex or other nonfabric coverings shall not satisfy the requirement of

coverage, irrespective of whether the coverage is complete or opaque.

Specified sexual activity. A "specified sexual activity" is de?ned as:

A. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
B. Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
C. Fondling or other erotic touching ofhuman genitals, pubic regions, buttocks or
female breasts.
Stable, private. A "private stable" is a detached accessory building for the keeping of

horses owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.

Stables arid/0r riding academies, commercial. A "stable and/or riding academy
noncommercial? is the grounds and buildings where horses are bred, raised, boarded or

kept for remuneration, hire or sale.

Stables and/0r riding academies, noncommercial. A "stable and/or riding academy
noncommercial" is the grounds and buildings designed, arranged, used or intended to be
used for the boarding, keeping or housing ofhorses for the private use ofthe owner. Such
use may be located on a lot occupied by residential uses or may be located on a lot
occupied by the equestrian facilities ofa private riding club. All such uses shall be

operated as not-for?profit facilities.

Stream. A "stream" is any natural, artificial or channelized water course that transports

continuous or periodic flowing water.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 115

Street. A "street" is a public or private right-of?way which affords a primary means of
access to abutting property, but excepting driveways to buildings.

Structural alteration. A "structural alteration" is any change, other than incidental
repairs, which would prolong the life ofthe supporting members ofa building, such as the

addition, removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or foundations.

Structure. A "structure? is an assembly of materials forming a construction for
occupancy or use, including but not limited to buildings, stadia, reviewing stands,
platforms, antenna towers, observation towers, radio towers, windmills, open sheds,

shelters, coal silos, gas or liquid storage tanks, display signs, piers, fences and trestles.

Substantial improvement. A "substantial improvement? is considered to occur when
the ?rst alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part ofa building

commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.

Substantial improvements in a ?oodable area. Any repair, reconstruction or
improvements to the external dimensions of a structure which cost 50 percent or more of
the market value of the structure (either before the improvement has begun or after it has
been completed) is considered ?substantial improvements in a ?oodable area". Any repair,
reconstruction or improvements to a structure that has been damaged and is being restored
which cost 50 percent or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred is considered substantial improvements in a ?oodable area. The term substantial
improvements in a floodable area, however, does not include:

A. Improvements of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitation or safety code speci?cations necessary to assure safe living
conditions,

B. Alterations to a structure or site documented as deserving preservation by the
Illinois Department of Conservation or listed on the National Register of
Historic Places. No improvement shall result in an increase by more than 20
percent ofthe square footage of land area occupied by currently existing real

estate 

Surface water elevation. The "surface water elevation" is the normal water level
elevation ofa lake, stream or stream bed as depicted on United States Geological Survey
(U.S.G.S.) floodplain topographic maps. lf surface water elevation datum Specified by the
Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources is more current than
U.S.G.S. floodplain typographic maps, Division of Water Resources information may be

used.

Telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and receiving
facility. A ?telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and

receiving facility? is a facility which consists ofa combination ofimprovements and

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 116

equipment, including but not limil'et'l tn towers, antennas. wires, electrical cabinets, and
foundations, that is operated pursuant to applicable federal licenses and includes antenna

devices by which signals are transmitted and/or received.

Tent. A "tent? is any structure or enclosure, the roof of which and/or one-half or more

of the sides, are constructed of silk, cotton, canvas, fabric or a similar light material.

extAmendment. A change in the development standards in one or more zoning
districts.

Theater. An establishment used to observe films and other visual material which is not

an adult motion picture theater.

hree-component measuring system. A "three-component measuring system" denotes
instrumentation which can measure earthborn vibrations in three directions, that is,

vibration occurring in a horizontal as well as a vertical plane.

Toxic or noxious substances. Any solid, liquid or gaseous matter, including but not
limited to gases, vapors, dusts, fumes and mists containing properties which by chemical
means are inherently harmful and likely to destroy life and impair health or are capable of
causing injury to the well-being of persons or damage to property are considered "toxic or
noxious substances."

Trailer. See de?nition set forth in Mobile Home Park Ordinance of Cook County

[Chapter 1 10, Article II ofthe Code].

railer-camper parks. A ?trailer-camper park" is a residential facility designed, used or
intended to be used to accommodate the over-night or temporary location, hookup or use

of its facilities for travel trailer, camp trailer and recreation vehicles.

Transitional residence. A temporary residential living arrangement for persons who

are receiving therapy or counseling for purposes which include, but are not limited to:

A. Drug or alcohol addiction.
B. Imprisonment including pre-release, work-release, and probationary programs.
C. Family and school adjustment problems which require Special attention and
care in order to achieve personal independence.
D. Victims of domestic abuse.
Uni?ed control. The combination of two or more tracts of land wherein each owner
has agreed that his tract of land shall be developed as part ofa planned unit development

and shall be subject to the control applicable to the planned unit development.

Use. The ?use" of property is the purpose or activity for which the land or building is

designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and shall include

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 117

any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the performance standards of

this ordinance.

Use, permitted. A "permitted use" is a use which may be lawfully established in a
particular district, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and performance

standards (if any) of such district.

Use, principal. A "principal use" is the main use ofland or buildings as distinguished
from a subordinate or indicates otherwise accessory use. A principal use may be either

permitted or special.

Use, special. A ?special use? ofland or buildings, or both, described in this ordinance
is a use subject to special provisions because of unique characteristics that do not allow the

use to be properly classified as a permitted use.

Variance. A "variance? means a grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance
which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this

ordinance.
Vibration. A ?vibration" is the periodic diSplacement, of earth, measured in inches.

Warehouse. A ?warehouse" is a structure, or part of a structure or area used principally

for the storage of goods and merchandise.

Waste transfer facility. A "waste transfer facility" is a facility where solid waste from
collection vehicles is consolidated and temporarily stored for subsequent transport to a

permanent disposal site.

Water supply system, individual. The "individual water supply system" ofa building or
premises consists of the water service pipes, water distribution pipes and the necessary
connecting pipes, fittings, control valves and all appurtenances in or adjacent to the

building or premises.

Water supply system, public. A "public water supply system" means collectively all
property involved in a water utility, including land, water sources, collection systems,
dams and hydraulic structures, distribution systems and other appurtenances, pumping
stations, treatment works and general properties, or any parts thereof.

Watercourse. A river, stream, creek, brook, branch or other drainageway into which

storm water runoff and floodwaters flow either regularly or intermittently.

Waterworks. A ?waterworks? refers to and includes a waterworks system in its entirety

or any integral part thereof, including hydrants, meters, valves, standpipes, storage tanks

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 118

and all other elements useful in connection with a water supply or water distribution

system.

Well. A "well" is an underground source of water made accessible by drilling or
digging to the level of the water table.

Wholesale establishment. A "wholesale establishment" is a business establishment

engaged in selling to retailers orjobbers rather than consumers.

Yard. A ?yard" is an open space, on the same zoning lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise
permitted in Article 8. A yard extends along a lot line, to a depth or width speci?ed in the
yard requirements for the zoning district in which the zoning lot is located.

Yard, corner side. A "corner side yard? is a side yard which faces a public street.

Yard, front. A "front yard? is a yard extending along the full length ofthe front lot line
between the side lot lines.

Yard, interior side. An "interior side yard? is a side yard which is located immediately
adjacent to another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another zoning
lot.

Yard, rear. A "rear yard" is a yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line

between the side lot lines.

Yard, side. A ?side yard" is a yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to

the rear yard.

Yard, transitional. A ?transitional yard" is a yard which must be provided on a
commercial zoning lot which adjoins a zoning lot in a residence district, or that yard which
must be provided on an industrial zoning lot which adjoins a zoning lot in either a

Residence or Business District.

Zero lot line residence. A detached single-family dwelling unit which is built to one of
the side lot lines. A ?zero lot line residence? is generally constructed within a planned unit

development or when clustering residential units.

Zoning administrator. The ?zonin administrator? is a person appointed by the
President ofthe Board of Commissioners who is vested with administrative responsibilities
regarding this ordinance. The Of?ce ofthe Zoning Administrator is wholly contained
within the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 119

Zoning board. The "Zoning Board? is the Zoning Board of Appeals of Cook County.

Zoning district. A "zonin district" is a sections or sections of the unincorporated
territory of Cook County for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and

bulk of buildings and premises are uniform.

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved to Approve Communication
No. 324315 as Substituted. The motion carried.

319867 DOCKETS #4944 8843 #8844- UNLIMITED INC. Owner, Route 5 South
Hwy 59, Barrington, Illinois, Application (No. SU-I2-13 V- I2- 46; ZI2059 ZI2060).
Submitted by Barrington Pools, Inc. Seeking
a SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE and VARIANCE in the I Single Family Residence
District to expand a lawfully existing Special Use (SU- 88- 05) to continue to operate a
swimming pool sales and parts business that includes administrative/business of?ces, sales
showroom and equipment and material storage for a retail swimming pool business (if

granted under the companion 

 

 

 

inteliol side vaid setback [mm ?the minimum quuircd :10 feet to 4. 29 feet (existing: lor
metal buildings for storage of poo] equiorncl'lt and supplies [il' grantediundeLthe
companion SU-12-I3), in Section 21 in Barrington Township, County Board District #14.
Intended use: Continued operation as a swimming pool sales business and metal buildings
for storage of pool quipment and?pm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: That the application be granted.

Conditions: None

Objectors: None

*Referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals on 09/10/12.

?02/5/13 Deferred to the February 27, 2013 Zoning Building Committee Meeting.

Deferred to the March 20, 2013 Zoning Building Committee Meeting.
Deferred

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to Defer Communication No.
319867 to the Zoning and Building Committee meeting September 11, 2013. The motion carried.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to Suspend the rules to consider the
Supplemental Agendas. The motion carried.

321275

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 120

AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, SECTION
38-51 THROUGH SECTION 38?55 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President
and Jesus G. Garcia and Peter N. Silvestri, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDING PUBLIC HEALTH AND PRIVATE NUISANCE ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, an amendment to clarify the relationship between the Department of Public
Health and the Department of Building and Zoning is timely given the recent enactment of
the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health and Human Services, Sections 38-51 through 38-
55 ofthe Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 38-51. Purpose and jurisdiction.

Title. This article shall be known as the "Public Health and Private Nuisance
Ordinance" of Cook County, Illinois.

Purpose. This article shall be liberally construed and applied to protect and
improve the public health and the quality of life for eitiaens individuals residing in the
unincorporated area of Cook County.

(0) Jurisdiction. The provisions of this article apply to the unincorporated area of
Cook County and such other areas as may be designated by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in accordance with State Statutes but excluding all publicly owned
property or rights-of?way under the jurisdiction of any governmental agency.

1d! EnforcingAuthorirv. The Cook Countv?bpartment of Public Health and Cook
County Sheriff shall enforce this Ordinance with respect to em properties within the area of
jurisdiction described above. including vacant Ints. but excluding vacant buildings which
shall be enforced by the Cook Countv Department of Building and Zoning as defined i_n
the Cook Countv Vacant Building Ordinance. Sec. 102-2 et seq.:

 

 

(GHQ) Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is
declared unconstitutional or the application thereof is held invalid, it shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of this article and the application of such provisions to other
persons and circumstances.

Sec. 38-52. Definitions.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and phrases set forth herein shall

have the meanings set forth in this article. Words and phrases not defined in this article
shall have the meaning indicated by common dictionary definition.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 121

Compost shall mean a humus-like product derived from the process of composting waste,
which may be used as a soil conditioner.

Compost bin shall mean a structure constructed of durable nontoxic, noncarcinogenic
material, such as rot-resistant wood, block, or sturdy woven wire fencing, for the purpose
of containing a compost pile, or a commercially available container designed speci?cally
for composting, distinct from a garbage or waste container.

Composting shall mean the biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic fraction of waste, producing compost. Only materials generated by
the residents of the property where the compost pile or bin is located are permitted to be
composted. Examples of permitted materials include: grass clippings, leaves, weeds that
have not gone to seed, non?diseased plants, evergreen cones or needles, straw, sawdust,
wood ashes, fruit or vegetable scraps, coffee grounds, eggshells, and commercially
available ingredients speci?cally designed to speed or enhance decomposition. Examples
of prohibited materials include: Weenee?m?md?da?ei?meat?pwdaeb? human or
pet feces; diseased plant waste; poisonous substances; chemically treated lumber, sawdust
from chemically treated lumber, or other chemically treated materials; inorganic material;
and other materials that may attract vectors. Fats, oils, grease, or lard, and dairy or meat
products shall only be composted in accordance with Bnkashi composting methods, which
require materials to be sealed in an airtight container and subsequently buried underneath
soil in a sealed or rodent proofed container, Proper composting techniques including, but
not limited to, timely aeration, soil addition and the monitoring of moisture content shall
be maintained. Equine waste may, however, be composted in accordance with all Illinois
Department of Agriculture regulations. Such composting of equine waste is only allowed
in areas where the Cook County Zoning Ordinance permits keeping of horses. It is not the
intent of this section to prohibit farmers or gardeners from incorporating bovine or equine
waste into the soil for fertilizer.

 

Domestic sewage shall mean waste water emanating principally from, but not limited to:
dwellings; business or of?ce buildings; institutions; food service establishments and
similar facilities; recreational, construction, of?ce, and school trailers or similar facilities.
Domestic sewage may contain, but is not limited to, human excrement, laundry waste
water, kitchen and bathroom waste water, water used for cleaning, water from building
floor drains, and water used for processing. The term does not include surface drainage
water or footing water.

Garbage shall mean putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food. Domestic sewage containing human
excrement or body waste is not de?ned as garbage.

Health Department shall mean the Cook County Department of Public Health.

Improperly treated domestic sewage is domestic sewage that comes to the ground surface
directly from any component of a conventional subsurface septic tank and seepage tile
system, and domestic sewage emanating from a malfunctioning or broken public outdoor
building sewer serving a structure listed in the de?nition for "domestic sewage?
hereinabove and occurring within the property line. It is also de?ned as any direct surface
sewage discharge from a mobile conveyance holding tank, pumper truck tank, or an

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 122

improperly designed, maintained, or installed sanitary dump station. In cases where surface
discharges of treated effluent have been allowed, the domestic sewage shall be deemed
improperly treated if the treated effluent is not in compliance with any applicable provision
of Section 905.110(d) of the Illinois Code, 77 Ill. Adm. .Code 905, Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code. (2003).

Litter shall mean paper; cigarette butts; glass; plastic; grass clippings, or other lawn, yard,
or garden waste such as leaves, twigs, tree branches, and tree roots that are less than a one?
half inch in diameter, uprooted weeds, shrubbery cuttings, brush, and plant stalks; needles,
syringes, and lancets; carcasses of dead animals, excrement from domestic pets, manure
from other domesticated animals; and other nonputrescible waste.

Mold shall mean any microscopic fungi, including mushrooms and yeasts.
Per_s_on shall _mean m_eans_any_in_di_vidual,_ corp_orati_onplimited liability corporation,

organization, government, governmental suhdivisiormr agenthusi?ess trust, estate, t'rust,
partnership, association and any other legal entity.

 

Serial violation shall mean one in which the violator has received two or more notices for
the same or substantially similar violations from the health department within two years.

Vectors shall mean any arthropod, rat, mouse, bird, or other animal capable of carrying
disease producing organisms to a human host. It does not include animals that transmit
disease to humans only when used as food.

Sec. 38?53. General provisions.

(1) Representatives of the Health Department are hereby authorized and empowered to
make all inspections of buildings, structures, prOpeIty, and premises.

(2) Representatives of the Health Department may enter all buildings, structures,
property, and premises in order to enforce the provisions of this article during reasonable
hours subject to reasonable notice. Such representatives shall have the authority to make
such decisions and determinations as are necessary with respect to the enforcement of this
article, and impose such requirements and orders as are necessary to bring such buildings,
structures, property, and premises into compliance with this article.

(3) Failure to grant access to any building, structure, property, or premises to
determine compliance with this article a?er written notice from the Health Department is a
separate violation of this article punishable in accordance with the penalties section of this

article Section 38-55 

(4) It shall be deemed a separate violation of this article for any person to knowingly
furnish any false or Inisleam Subaq?i?ss?ieH?ef?any information or complaint eIther?m
w: i-ting- or? mall-y to the Health Department 
and said violation shall be punishable in accordance

with the penalties section of this article [Section 38- 55].

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 123

(5) When an investigation, whether based upon complaint or otherwise, shall discloses
that a_violations of this article exists, the Health Department shall give notice in writing to
the owner, occupant, lessee, or person in possession, charge or control of such building,
structure, property, or premises, to make such changes, alterations, repairs, or to perfOI In
such work, or to take such action to correct the violations Mthia?saeh?time?as?shall?Jee
designateI-l-hy?the Health?Departmem. l?n?ne?event?wil?l?this time period for making
any corrections shall be designated by the Health Department, and shall not exceed 30 days
after the service of such notice. unless otherwise authorized in writing bv the Health
Department?s Director of Environmental Health Services.

(6) In the event that satisfactory changes, alterations, repairs, work, or actions have not
been i-H-it?iated within the time speei-?ed?ia?said?aetiee designated by the Health
Department per Section 38-53(5) above, the Health Department may shall issue a citation
and schedule a hearing before ?tilt; Hearings ul? Cook County.
pursuant to the rules and procedures of that_Depa_rtment, or notify the State's Attorney's

Office and recommend legal

prosecution. The to extent.) the period making aIIv corrections beyond the

time designated by the Health Depa_rtmegnt per_Sgct_ion 38- shall be reserved to
the hearing officer or judge.

 

 

 

 

(7) In the event of a serial violation of any provision of this article, the Health
Department may request prosecution by the State's Attorney's Office after seven days'
notice, excluding weekends and county holidayuo the owner. occupant, lessee, or person
in possession. charge or coulrol oi'such building, structure. propertv, or premises.

 

 

(8) Representatives of the Health Department are authorized to reqaest obtain
assistance from the Cook County Sheriff?s Peliee Of?ce to help serve an administrative
warrant, a search warrant, or other notices.

(9) If any condition not covered by this article is observed that may be injurious to the
safety of the public, representatives of the Health Department may request the
assistance of the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning. Such matters include
but are not limited to: municipal sewer systems; municipal water systems; electrical
systems; plumbing; excavations; unsafe buildings; the prevention and safety; ventilation,
including air exchanges; lighting and heating; drainage; grading; standing water problems;
structural integrity; occupancy; property maintenance; and similar matters where the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning has inspectional authority.

(10) Authorization is given to members of the general public who are directly affected
by any violation of this article to s_eek enfOIceI_nent of the provisions of this article based
upon?the by makinga complaint ?led with the Department of PublIc Health
or filing a complaint with the Clerk of the Circuit Court ofCook County aad?preseeI-Hed?as

(ll) The Health Department has the authority to promulgate rules and regulations to
carry out the intent and purpose of this article. Failure to comply with the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Health Department is a separate violation of this article
punishable according to the penalties section ofthis article.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 124

Sec. 38?54. Declared nuisances.

The following are declared to be public nuisances that are injurious to the public health,
and therefore, it is unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts:

(1) To deposit or throw garbage or litter onto the ground surface, property, or in any
water course, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer.

(2) To allow garbage or litter to accumulate on the ground surface, property, or in any
water course, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer on property that is under their
control or ownership regardless of who threw or deposited the garbage or litter there.

(3) To deposit or throw garbage or litter into a garbage container or a waste container
owned by another person without the consent of the owner or person in possession of said
container.

(4) To burn garbage in the open.

(5) To use a garbage container or a waste container that is not fly tight.

(6) To use a garbage container or waste container that is not constructed from
nonabsorbent, durable, metal or hard plastic material and that is not provided with a tight
fitting cover. The use of a plastic bag for the outside storage of garbage is prohibited,
except when placed for regular scavenger pickup by a State of Illinois licensed waste
hauler and only during the daylight hours of the day of pickup.

(7) To use a garbage container or a waste container for the outside storage of garbage
by a commercial establishment that is not placed on a paved, well-drained surface.

(8) To use a garbage container or waste container that has holes or other defects for
the outside storage of garbage and litter.

(9) To fail to have garbage and/or litter removed from the premises at least once a
week by a State of Illinois licensed waste hauler. A person who controls a residence or a
commercial, service, industrial, or business entity located in the unincorporated area shall
keep records of such removal service for at least one year, and shall make these available
inspection by the Health Department upon request. Failure to provide a current record
or bill from the waste hauler at the time of the inspection will be considered prima-facie
evidence that such service does not exist.

(IO) To leave the lid offa garbage container except when placed for scavenger pickup
by a State of Illinois licensed waste hauler and only during the daylight hours ofn the day
of pickup.

(l 1) To use unsanitary, leaking, or defective garbage or waste containers. All containers
shall be cleaned, repaired or replaced by the owner or person in control ofthe property.

(12) To store, dump, or permit the accumulation oftires, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows,
garbage cans, or other containers in a manner that may hold water and harbor vectors.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE125

(13) To dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or leave litter or garbage, or to cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving litter or garbage
upon any public or private property except as may be allowed by local or State agencies.

(14) To dispose of health care items such as needles, syringes, lancets, and other sharp
objects without first placing these objects in a hard plastic container or a metal container
that are provided with a screw on lid or other secured lid.

(15) To allow pets to defecate on property owned by another person eFenti-ty without
permission unless such waste is picked up and removed from said property.

(16) To allow pet waste to accumulate on the ground surface of property under their
control or ownership regardless of who owns the domestic pet.

(17) To have more than three adult companion animals living at any one individual
residential unit. The term companion animal shall include domestic dogs, domestic cats,
and ferrets. For purposes of this article, an animal shall be considered an adult when it
reaches four months of age.

(18) To discharge improperly treated domestic sewage from a sewage disposal system
serving the property under their ownership or control to the ground surface, farm tiles,
streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, storm sewers, roadside ditches, other collectors of water,
water well, cisterns, basements, underground mines, caves, sinkholes, tunnels, wells, or in
a manner that does not comply with the requirements of Ill. Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905,
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003). The existence or appearance of
any fluorescein dye on the ground surface or otherwise outside of a septic tank and seepage
tile system that has been so dyed shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence that such
system is discharging improperly treated sewage to the ground surface in violation of this
article.

(19) To fail to provide clean and sanitary public or employee restrooms.
(20) To improperly maintain a public or residential swimming pool, or wading pool or
any other man made basin or container of water that is offensive, injurious, or dangerous to

the public health.

To permit the accumulation of outdoor litter to such an extent that it may harbor
vectors that are offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public health.

(22) To compost in a manner that is not permitted in this article.

(23) To locate or place a compost pile or bin in either the front yard or the side yard of
a lot.

(24) To use residential type compost piles or bins that are more than five feet in height
and/or have a combined ground base area of more than one hundred square feet. Bins shall
be structurally sound and kept in a state of good repair.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 126

(25) To place compost piles or bins over a drainage-way of any kind.

(26) To allow any garbage site, premises, building, structure, or property to become
infested with vectors.

(27) To permit a water well or cistern to be unplugged, unsealed, or uncovered at any
time after its abandonment for more than 30 days unless prior written approval is obtained
from the health department.

(28) To own, maintain, keep tame a building or structure that is unfit for human
habitation or occupancy. A building or structure is unfit for human habitation or occupancy
ifit does not contain anv or all ofthe following:

Properly functioning, maintained, and installed potable water system?

Electricity or gas for cooking and/or heating,_o_r

Properly functioning equipment for heating the building?

Properly functioning appliances for cookin and refrigerating fOOd?
e. A properly functioning, maintained, and installed sewage disposal system.

(29) To own or maintain rental property that contains excessive moisture or water that
has or may result in indoor mold growth.

(30) To allow a privy vault to exist that is not fly?tight.

(31) To leave any septic tank, cesspool, pit privy, aerobic treatment plant, or seepage
pit in the ground after discontinuing its use as a component of a sewage disposal system
without first having the contents pumped by a State of Illinois and Cook County-licensed
septage hauler. Once pumped, the tank, cesspool, pit privy, treatment plant, or seepage pit
must either be removed from the ground or broken, cracked, or crumbled and ?lled with
sand or compacted soil.

(32) To dispose of domestic waste by any means that is not specifically authorized by
either the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or the health department.

(33) To maintain any building, structure, property, or premises or any part thereof that
is unsanitary, unhealthy& and unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use.

(34) To fail to eat maintain grass; weeds below 10 inches in height, or to fail to cut
brush in a manner that may harbor vectors.

(35) To discharge wastewater from aerobic treatment plants in a manner that does not
comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code
(2003).

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE127

(36) To fail to provide temporary toilet facilities at a construction site.

(37) To construct, install, repair, modify or maintain a private sewage disposal system
in a manner that does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and Code 

(38) To pump, haul, and/or dispose of waste from a private sewage disposal system in a
manner that does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and Code (2003).

(39) To fail to provide the vertical and/or horizontal separation distance between water
lines and sewer lines in a manner that does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003).

(40) To add prohibited materials to a private sewage disposal system.

(41) To use septage disposal methods that do not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905,
Private Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003).

(42) To install a private sewage disposal system that is not installed according to the
approved plans.

(43) To fail to obtain the requisite permit to collect septage or to transport septage
through Cook County.

Sec. 38-55. Penalties and Adjudication.

Any that is 

determined to have violated any provision of this article,_shall be issued a citation and

 

 

second violation. and a fine of $ ,000 $6,000 for each subsequent violation. eiLfails?te

 

 

 

  

   
 

 
 
 

$500.00 or 

      

qul?eeammahy?Hwiee: For purposes of determining a repeat violation, a repeat
violation is a violation Iliis article that occurs within years of the same or a
substantially similar violation of this articleaddition to any penalty provided by this article, the health department may
request that the Cook County State's Attorney initiate action to obtain injunctive relief in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, including the issuance of a temporary
restraining order and preliminary injunction, in order to abate any such nuisance condition

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 128

as enumerated in this article.

 

Administrative
adjudication. Any person issued a notice of violation of any provision of this article may
request an administrative hearing?.

Notice.

a_ Before any a{huil_1_i_s_t_ljg1_t_iy? adjudication proceeding may he contluctetL the parties
shall b_e afforded notice in compliance with this section.

Unless 0therwise_pro_vided by law or rule the issuer of a notice of violation or
notice of hearing shall specify on the notice his or her name and department; where known
the name a_nd_address of the person or entity charged with the violation; the date. time and
place ofthe Violation: and the section ol?lhe or 
was allegedly violated; and shall _c_e_r_l_il}1 _the correctness of [he specified information by
signing his or her name to the notice. A notice of hearing shall also include the date, time
and location of the hearing and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.

 

 

The County shall notify the violator. within ten days. by certified mail return
receipt requested. that an administrative adjudication hearing will be conducted. The
hearing shall be scheduled and held. unless _contjnuedhby 91111;qu law
of?cer, no later than 30 days after the date of the violation.

 

 

(2L Administrative hearings.

 

a. A_n_y_ admini_stratiye adjudication proceeding conducted by the County shall afford
the parties an Opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law officer.

An attorney on person shall tile with the at'lministrative
law of?cer a written appearance on a form provided for such purpose.

c. While the case for the County will not be pre_sen_ted by the a_dministrative law
officer; documentary evidence however including the notice of Violation wh_icl_1 haibin

pr_epared by the Sheriff_or_the Department of Public Health. may be presented at the
the admnistratiye law officer.

 

 

 

The administrative law officer may grant continuances onlwpon a finding of good
cause.

g. All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.

f. The administrative law officer may permit witnesses to submit their testimony by
affidavit.

g. The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the conduct of the

 

hearjng. Evidence. including hearsay. may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA

 

LY 31, 2013
PAGE129

relied upon by reasonably prudent pewts in the conduct of t_heir affairs.
l_t. No violation may be established except upon prt? _by a preponderance of the

 

 

evidence: provided. however. that a violation notice. or a copy thereof, shall be ptfiplgi [am
evidence of the correctness of the fa_cts speci?ed therein_.

 

 

[_Jpon the timely_ request of any party to the proceeding, any person who the
administrative law officer determines may reasonably be expected to provide testimony
which is material and which does not constitute a needless presentation of cumulative
evidence. shall be made available for cross?examination prior to a final determination of

liability.

 

oLa? hearings before an administrative law of?cer shall include: a
record of the testimony presented at the healing; dwjtieh _I_nay bentade by tape recording or
other appropriate means; (ii) all documents presented at the hearing; a copy ofthe
notice at" violamigutotjee of hearing; and (iv) a copy of the findings and decision ofthe
administrative law officer.

 

 

 

k. Upon conclusion of a hearing, the administrative law officer shall issue a final
determination ofliabilitv or no liability. Upon_ issuing a final determination ofliability the
administrative law officer may: impose penalties and/or ?nes that are consistent 
this article or other applicable provisions of the County Code: {ii} issue orders that are
consistent with applicable provisions of the assess costs
reasonably related to instituting the administrative adindication proceeding; provided,
however, that in no event shall the l_aw officer have the authority to impose

 

 

 

 

1. In the issuance of a final determination of liability. an administrative law of?cer
violator of his or her right to seek iIIdieial review of the_flnal
determination.

 

 

 

Hearing procedures not exclusive. The use of the administrative adjudicatiLn

 

other methods to enforce the provisions of article.

(ti) _All penalties assessed by the Department of Administrative Hearings shall be
payable to the Department ?ot'?eventte. in accordance with Chapter 2, Article IX. Section

2?021 of the Cook County Code All peII__t__I!ties__ assessed by the Circuit Court under this
article shall be collected by the Cook County CleIk of Court for deposit with the Cook

County Treasurer's Office. 

. 
3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The petitioner. in any by a private be allowed to recover

 

their court costs. liliuo fees. and their attorney?s fees from tIIeI'espondenl it' the co_I_t_Ij_t__I_i_Ith

 

in favor ofthc petitioner.

 

t-?rt-m-I-lhe-Iwi-vale party- in~any

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 130

The respondent. in any case brought bv a private personkshall be allowe? t9

 

recover their court cos_ts, filing fees. and attornev's fees from the petitioner if the court
?nds in favor of the respondent.

 

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect 60 days following adoption.

*Referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals on 12/18/12.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 321275. The motion carried.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Accept the Substitute
Ordinance Amendment for Communication No. 321275. The motion carried, and Communication
No. 32127 5 was SUBSTITUTED, as follows:

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNICATION NO 321275

Sponsored by TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JESUS G. and PETER N.
SILVESTRI, County Commissioners

AMENDING PUBLIC HEALTH AND PRIVATE UISANCE ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38,
Health and Human Services, Article 111, Public Health and Private Nuisances, Section 38-
51 through Section 38-55, of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

Sec. 38-51. - Purpose and jurisdiction.

(80



(C)

Title. This article shall be known as the "Public Health and Private
Nuisance Ordinance? of Cook County, Illinois.

Purpose. This article shall be liberally construed and applied to protect and
improve the public health and the quality of life for individuals residing in
the unincorporated area of Cook County.

Jurisdiction. The provisions of this article apply to the unincorporated area
of Cook County and such other areas as may be designated by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in accordance with State Statutes but
excluding all publicly owned property or rights-of?way under the
jurisdiction of any governmental agency.

 

Enforcingr Authority. The Cook County Department of Public_ HeLth
shall enforce this Ordinance with respect a_ l_properties within
the area of iurisdiction described above. including vacant lots. but
excluding vacant buildings which shall ht: by the Cook County
De of Builtiiygand Zoning as deti?etlinlhe (look County Vacant
Building Ordinance, Sec. 102?2 et seq..

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 131

Gel?Hg) Severabilz'ty. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
article is declared unconstitutional or the application thereof is held
invalid, it shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this article and
the application of such provisions to other persons and circumstances.

Sec. 38-52. - De?nitions.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and phrases set forth
herein shall have the meanings set forth in this article. Words and phrases not
de?ned in this article shall have the meaning indicated by common dictionary
de?nition.

Compost shall mean a humus-like product derived from the process of
composting waste, which may be used as a soil conditioner.

Compost bin shall mean a structure constructed of durable nontoxic,
noncarcinogenic material, such as rot?resistant wood, block, or sturdy woven wire
fencing, for the purpose of containing a compost pile, or a commercially available
container designed specifically for composting, distinct from a garbage or waste
container.

Composting shall mean the biological treatment process by which
microorganisms decompose the organic fraction of waste, producing compost.
Only materials generated by the residents of the property where the compost pile
or bin is located are permitted to be composted. Examples of permitted materials
include: grass clippings, leaves, weeds that have not gone to seed, non-diseased
plants, evergreen cones or needles, straw, sawdust, wood ashes, fruit or vegetable
scraps, coffee grounds, eggshells, and commercially available ingredients
specifically designed to speed or enhance decomposition. Examples of prohibited
materials include: fats, oils, grease, or lard; dairy or meat products;?human or pet
feces; diseased plant waste; poisonous substances; chemically treated lumber,
sawdust from chemically treated lumber, or other chemically treated materials;
inorganic material; and other materials that may attract vectors. Proper composting
techniques including, but not limited to, timely aeration, soil addition and the
monitoring of moisture content shall be maintained. Equine waste may, however,
be composted in accordance with all Illinois Department of Agriculture
regulations. Such composting of equine waste is only allowed in areas where the
Cook County Zoning Ordinance permits keeping of horses. It is not the intent of
this section to prohibit farmers or gardeners from incorporating bovine or equine
waste into the soil for fertilizer.

Domestic sewage shall mean waste water emanating principally from, but
not limited to: dwellings; business or office buildings; institutions; food service
establishments and similar facilities; recreational, construction, office, and school
trailers or similar facilities. Domestic sewage may contain, but is not limited to,
human excrement, laundry waste water, kitchen and bathroom waste water, water
used for cleaning, water from building floor drains, and water used for processing.
The term does not include surface drainage water or footing water.

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 132

Garbage shall mean putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food. Domestic sewage
containing human excrement or body waste is not de?ned as garbage.

Health?Department of Public Health or shall mean the Cook
County Department of Public Health.

 

Improperly treated domestic sewage is domestic sewage that comes to the
ground surface directly from any component of a conventional subsurface septic
tank and seepage tile system, and domestic sewage emanating from a
malfunctioning or broken public outdoor building sewer serving a structure listed
in the de?nition for "domestic sewage" hereinabove and occurring within the
property line. It is also de?ned as any direct surface sewage discharge from a
mobile conveyance holding tank, pumper truck tank, or an improperly designed,
maintained, or installed sanitary dump station. In cases where surface discharges
of treated effluent have been allowed, the domestic sewage shall be deemed
improperly treated if the treated effluent is not in compliance with any applicable
provision of Section 905.110(d) of the Illinois Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905,
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code. (2003).

Litter shall mean paper; cigarette butts; glass; plastic; grass clippings, or
other lawn, yard, or garden waste such as leaves, twigs, tree branches, and tree
roots that are less than a one-half inch in diameter, uprooted weeds, shrubbery
cuttings, brush, and plant stalks; needles, syringes, and lancets; carcasses of dead
animals, excrement from domestic pets, manure from other domesticated animals;
and other nonputrescible waste.

Mold shall mean any microscopic fungi, including mushrooms and yeasts.
Person shall mean means any indiyidual, corporation. limited liabilitv

corporation. subdivision or agency,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership. asmcialigi and any other legal entilv.

 

Serial violation shall mean one in which the violator has received two or
more notices for the same or substantially similar violations from ?ee?health

within two years.

Vectors shall mean any arthropod, rat, mouse, bird, or other animal
capable of carrying disease producing organisms to a human host. It does not
include animals that transmit disease to humans only when used as food.

 

Sec. 38-53. - General provisions.

(1) Representatives of are hereby authorized
and empowered to make all inspections of buildings, structures, property,
and premises.

(2) Representatives of may enter all buildings,

structures, property, and premises in order to enforce the provisions of this
article during reasonable hours subject to reasonable notice, to the extent
consistent with applicable law. Such representatives shall have the

(3)

(49(2)



669(1)

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31,2013
PAGE 133

authority to make such decisions and determinations as are necessary with
respect to the enforcement of this article, and impose such requirements
and orders as are necessary to bring such buildings, structures, property,
and premises into compliance with this article.

are authorized to obtain an 

 

or withheld. Such representatives are also authorized to ?ob_tajn assistance
from the Cook County Sheriffs Office to serve and execute an
administrative warrant,_a search warrant, or other notices.

 

Failure to grant access to any building, structure, property, or premises to
determine compliance with this article after presentation of an
administrative warrant is a separate violation of this article punishable in
accordance with the penalties section of this article  Section 38?55 I.

It shall he deelned_ a separale violation of this article for any person 
knowingly furnish any false or misleadirLgSebws?en?eflany information
or complaint 

 

artiele and said violation shall be punishable in accordance with the
penalties section ofthis article [Section 38-55].

 

When an investigation, whether based upon complaint or otherwise, shall
discloses that a violations of this article exists, 
BepaHme-Hl? shall give notice in writing to the owner, occupant, lessee, or
person in possession, charge or control of such building, structure,
property, or premises, to make such changes, alterations, repairs, or to
perform such work, or to take such action to correct the violationswit?ltin
Theln?ne
event?wa-l?this?time period for making any corrections shall be designated
by and shall not exceed 30 days after the service of such notice,
?IIlesg-L authorized in writing, l?W (7 DPH of
Environmental Health Services, or his/her designee.

 

 

 

In the event that satisfactory changes, alterations, repairs, work, or actions
have not been H+itiateeli_nade within the time speei-?ed?m?saiel
net-ieedesignated by per Section 38-53 g) above, 
_l_lIe Hearings Department of Cook County the
rules and procedures of that Department or notify the State's Attorney's
Office 
legal prosecution. The discretion to extend the period for
making:? the lime by ("(13ij 
Section 38?53(5 6) above shall be reserved to the hearing of?cegmgg.

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 134

In the event of a serial violation of any provision of this article, 

(9)



may request criminal prosecution by the State?s Attorney?s Office pursuant

to 720 ILCS 5/4775 

,1 .-

If any condition not covered by this article is observed that may be
injurious to the safety of the public, representatives of 
BepmtnIeIIt?Inayshall request the assistance of the Cook County
Department of Building and Zoning. Such matters include but are not
limited to: municipal sewer systems; municipal water systems; electrical
systems; plumbing; excavations; unsafe buildings; fire prevention and
safety; ventilation, including air exchanges; lighting and heating; drainage;
grading; standing water problems; structural integrity; occupancy;
property maintenance; and similar matters where the Cook County
Department of Building and Zoning has inspectional authority.


-

aFt-iel . (If?the
'iele??hy? lit-HE

 

 

 

The of Public Health has the authority to promulgate
rules and regulations to carry out the intent and purpose of this article.
Failure to comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the
is a separate violation ofthis article punishable
according to the penalties section ofthis article.

Sec. 38-54. - Declared nuisances.

The following are declared to be public nuisances that are injurious to the public
health, and therefore, it is unlawful for any person to commit any of the following

acts:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

To deposit or throw garbage or litter onto the ground surface, property, or
in any water course, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer.

To allow garbage or litter to accumulate on the ground surface, property,
or in any water course, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer on
property that is under their control or ownership regardless of who threw
or deposited the garbage or litter there.

To deposit or throw garbage or litter into a garbage container or a waste
container owned by another person without the consent of the owner or

person in possession of said container.

To burn garbage in the open.

(5)
(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 135

To use a garbage container or a waste container that is not fly tight.

To use a garbage container or waste container that is not constructed from
nonabsorbent, durable, metal or hard plastic material and that is not
provided with a tight ?tting cover. The use ofa plastic bag for the outside
storage of garbage is prohibited, except when placed for regular scavenger
pickup by a State of Illinois licensed waste hauler and only during the
daylight hours of the day of pickup.

To use a garbage container or a waste container for the outside storage of
garbage by a commercial establishment that is not placed on a paved, well-
drained surface.

To use a garbage container or waste container that has holes or other
defects for the outside storage of garbage and litter.

To fail to have garbage and/or litter removed from the premises at least
once a week by a State of Illinois licensed waste hauler. A person who
controls a residence or a commercial, service, industrial, or business entity
located in the unincorporated area shall keep records of such removal
service for at least one year, and shall make these available?for inspection
by upon request. Failure to provide a
current record or bill from the waste hauler at the time of the inspection
will be considered prima-facie evidence that such service does not exist.

 

To leave the lid off a garbage container except when placed for scavenger
pickup by a State of Illinois licensed waste hauler and only during the
daylight hours 0593 the day of pickup.

To use unsanitary, leaking, or defective garbage or waste containers. All
containers shall be cleaned, repaired or replaced by the owner or person in
control of the property.

To store, dump, or permit the accumulation of tires, buckets, cans,
wheelbarrows, garbage cans, or other containers in a manner that may hold
water and harbor vectors.

To dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or leave litter or garbage, or to
cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding
or leaving litter or garbage upon any public or private property except as
may be allowed by local or State agencies.

To dispose of health care items such as needles, syringes, lancets, and
other sharp objects without ?rst placing these objects in a hard plastic
container or a metal container that are provided with a screw on lid or
other secured lid.

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

(21)

(22)

(23)

(24)

(25)

(26)

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE136

To allow pets to defecate on property owned by another person ew?entity
without permission unless such waste is picked up and removed
from said property.

To allow pet waste to accumulate on the ground surface of property under
their control or ownership regardless of who owns the domestic pet.

To have more than three adult companion animals living at any one
individual residential unit. The term companion animal shall include
domestic dogs, domestic cats, and ferrets. For purposes of this article, an
animal shall be considered an adult when it reaches four months of age.

To discharge improperly treated domestic sewage from a sewage disposal
system serving the property under their ownership or control to the ground
surface, farm tiles, streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, storm sewers, roadside
ditches, other collectors of water, water well, cisterns, basements,
underground mines, caves, sinkholes, tunnels, wells, or in a manner that
does not comply with the requirements of Ill. Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
905, Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003). The
existence or appearance of any fluorescein dye on the ground surface or
otherwise outside of a septic tank and seepage tile system that has been so
dyed shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence that such system is
discharging improperly treated sewage to the ground surface in violation
of this article.

To fail to provide clean and sanitary public or employee restrooms.

To improperly maintain a public or residential swimming pool, or wading
pool or any other man made basin or container of water that is offensive,
injurious, or dangerous to the public health.

To permit the accumulation of outdoor litter to such an extent that it may
harbor vectors that are offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health.

To compost in a manner that is not permitted in this article.

To locate or place a compost pile or bin in either the front yard or the side
yard ofa lot.

To use residential type compost piles or bins that are more than five feet in
height and/or have a combined ground base area of more than one hundred
square feet. Bins shall be structurally sound and kept in a state of good
repair.

To place compost piles or bins over a drainage?way of any kind.

To allow any garbage site, premises, building, structure, or property to
become infested with vectors.

(27)

(28)

(29)

(30)

(31)

(32)

(33)

(34)

(35)

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 137

To permit a water well or cistern to be unplugged, unsealed, or uncovered
at any time after its abandonment for more than 30 days unless prior

written approval is obtained from 

To own, maintain, leep or?use?a building or structure that is un?t for
human habitation or occupancy. A building or structure is un?t for human
habitation or occupancy if it does not contain any or all of the following:

a. Properly functioning, maintained, and installed potable
water system;&

b. Electricity or gas for cooking and/or heatingg?

c. Properly functioning equipment for heating the building;1
01.?

d. Properly functioning appliances for cooking and
refrigerating foo-dig

e. A properly functioning, maintained, and installed sewage
disposal system.
To own or maintain rental property that contains excessive moisture or
water that has or may result in indoor mold growth.

To allow a privy vault to exist that is not fly-tight.

To leave any septic tank, cesspool, pit privy, aerobic treatment plant, or
seepage pit in the ground after discontinuing its use as a component of a
sewage disposal system without first having the contents pumped by a
State of Illinois and Cook County-licensed septage hauler. Once pumped,
the tank, cesspool, pit privy, treatment plant, or seepage pit must either be
removed from the ground or broken, cracked, or crumbled and filled with
sand or compacted soil.

To dispose of domestic waste by any means that is not speci?cally
authorized by either the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or


To maintain any building, structure, property, or premises or any part
thereof that is unsanitary, unhealthy, or?and unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use.

To fail to eat?maintain grass; weeds below 10 inches in height, or 
fail to maintain brush in a manner that mayprevents the harboring of
vectors.

 

To discharge wastewater from aerobic treatment plants in a manner that
does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and Code (2003).

(36)

(37)

(38)

(39)

(40)

(41)

(42)

(43)

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA

PAGE 138

To fail to provide temporary toilet facilities at a construction site.

To construct, install, repair, modify or maintain a private sewage disposal
system in a manner that does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905,
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003).

To pump, haul, and/or dispose of waste from a private sewage disposal
system in a manner that does not comply with 77 Ill. Adm. Code 905,
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003).

To fail to provide the vertical and/or horizontal separation distance
between water lines and sewer lines in a manner that does not comply with
77 Ill. Adm. Code 905, Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code
(2003).

To add prohibited materials to a private sewage disposal system.
To use septage disposal methods that do not comply with 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 905, Private Disposal Licensing Act and Code (2003).

To install a private sewage disposal system that is not installed according
to the approved plans.

T0 fail to obtain the requisite permit to collect septage or to transport
septage through Cook County.

Sec. 38-55. Penalties and Adjudication.



Any person 

H-?jr- 

 

II between?30 days 

. that is to have violated any
shall LII: isgiuetl a citIIliIIgagljujIjgt tine $2 ?(In the secogd
violation and a ?ne of$l 000- $6 000 for each subseqLIent v?iolation. For
purposes of article, repeat

violation a- a violation of
this article that occurs within two years of the or a

substantially similar violation ofIheeame?previsIenthis article.


I
E.
(II
-- I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 139

In addition to any penalty provided by this article, the?lwalth?depa?mest
may request that the Cook County State's Attorney initiate action
to obtain injunctive reliefin the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
including the issuance ofa temporary restraining order and preliminary
injunction, in order to abate any such nuisance condition as enumerated in
this article.

(0) All?perraiti . -
health?depai- tv-l-H?H'
It 
adiudication.

 

 

 

(1) Eroceedinas for administrative adiudication at" alleged violations of
this ordinance shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in
Chapter 2, Article IX. I'Ifthe Cook County ('ode 
in the event of a conflict between the procedures set out in Chapter 2,
Article IX, and the procedures set out in this sectiog?procedures
set out in this section shall prevail.

 

 

 

 

(2) If an administrative law officer finds, by a preponderance of evidence,
that the property is in noncompliance with this ordinance then the
adlttinistl'ativc law officer shall assess tines and costs. After exp?ation
ot? the period, within whiglt?jtgdieial review of the hearing of?cer's
decision may he sought under the Illinois Administratjtie Review Law,
the order assessing nes and costs decision unless reversed or
modified on judicial review may be enforced In the same manner as a

entered by a eoutt of compelellt__j_uris_t iegun. All expenses
incurretho enforce the iudament, including, but not limited to,
attorney's leesLegu? Islets:.aadsettsetion fees, shall be a debt due and
owing the County and may be collected in accordance with applicable
law.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) If an administrative law of?cer finds, by a preponderance of the
evidence. that the property is in nonemnpliance with this ordinance,
ME an order at abatement
which requires th_eovi'ner to ta_lte_al  
abate the noncompliance. If an order of abatement is entered, it shall
beientered at the time of the entrv of the order assessing ?nes and
costs for violations_ which occurred prior to the entrv of the order of
abatement. The order assessing fines and costs shall not_be_ anaL until
a final order is entered as to the abatement of the violations. Any
owner who fails to comply with an administrative law officer's
abatement order shall be subiect to a fine_n_ot_less than $500.00 and not

more than $l,000.00 for each offense. Each day that the violation

occurs shall b_e considered a separate and distinct?off?sg,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(SQ) All penalties assessed bit; the Depaitment ol Admini_stl_ative llcminas shall

be payable to the Department of Revenue, in accordance with Chapter 2,
Article_IX, Sec. 2-92l of th_e Cool: C_ounty Code. All penalties assessed

 

 

 

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 140

Ci IW'B?w?H??h?hh
deparm?reI-H?collected by the Cook County Clerk of Court for deposit with
the Cook County Treasurer's Office. 

payala 

 

 




 




Fri! laqFl: H1: lith?re {h 1

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect 60 days following
adoption.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, moved to Approve Communication
No. 321275 as Substituted as amended. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, moved to adjourn the meeting.
The motion passed and the meeting was adjourned.
SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 324284 Recommended for Approval

Communication Number 324285 Recommended for Deferral

Communication Number 324315 Recommended for Approval as Substituted
Communication Number 319867 Recommended for Deferral to September 1 l, 2013

Communication Number 321275 Recommended for Approval as Substituted and Amended

ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 141

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Zoning and Building

0317., AI. 

Peter N. Silvestri, Chairman

 

 

 

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

*The transcript for this meeting is available in the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 43 6, Chicago, IL 60602.

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on
the Video Page at 
board?video-and-audio/

