JUNE 1, 2004
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE

There will be a public hearing meeting of the Finance Labor Subcommittee of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County on Tuesday, June 15, 2004 at the hour of 2:00 PM in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:
265627

AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Roberto Maldonado and John P. Daley, County Commissioners. CoSponsored by Bobbie L. Steele, Mike Quigley and Larry Suffredin, County
Commissioners.
requesting authorization to amend to the “Cook County Living Wage Ordinance” (98O-21), approved by the Board on September 15, 1998, for your approval. This item
will be introduced at the May 18, 2004 Board meeting and I will request that it be
referred to the Finance Labor Subcommittee for further review and discussion.
Similar to the City of Chicago’s Living Wage Ordinance (Title 2, Chapter 92, Section
610), the proposed amendment increases the living wage for lowest-wage individuals
employed by contractors or subcontractors doing business with Cook County. The
county’s current living wage of $7.60 per hour will be increased to $9.43 per hour if
health benefits are provided, or $10.68 per hour with no health benefits. There will be
an annual adjustment calculated as 100% of the federal poverty line for a family of
four (as defined by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services) with health
benefits and 125% of the federal poverty line for a family of four without health
benefits.
In addition, the proposed amendment applies to companies benefiting from property
tax incentives as set forth in the Cook County Real Property Assessment
Classification Ordinance.
These amendments will ensure fair wages and will contribute to the county’s overall
economic well-being.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment.

 FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE COMMITTEE NOTICE
JUNE 1, 2004
PAGE 2
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, on September 15, 1998, the Cook County Board of Commissioners
passed the County Living Wage Ordinance to establish meaningful employee
compensation for lowest-wage individuals employed by a person or business entity
awarded a contract or subcontract with Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County’s Living Wage Ordinance should be updated to reflect the
most recent federal poverty level standards to maintain a stable and productive work
force thereby stimulating the local economy; and
WHEREAS, companies that benefit from property tax incentives from Cook County
should be held to the same living wage standard as those companies who do
business with Cook County to ensure a fair wage for their employees and to contribute
to the County’s overall economic well-being; now, therefore,
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF THE COUNTY OF COOK:
The Cook County Living Wage Ordinance (98-O-21) is hereby amended by deleting
the language stricken and by inserting the underlined language as follows:
Section 1. Living Wage Requirements.
Section 2. Applicability.
Section 3. Effective Date.
Referred to the Committee on Finance Labor Subcommittee on 5/18/04.

The public may testify at this meeting. Persons wishing to testify should give their name and
the name of any organization they may represent to the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, County Building, Telephone: (312) 603-6127, also you can register at
the location listed above, at the time of the meeting. Each organization will be limited to one
speaker. Each speaker will be limited to 3 minutes. Speakers are requested to submit 30
copies of any written statement to the committee prior to speaking.
____________________________
Michelle Harris, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Murphy
Moreno
Butler, Gorman, Hansen, Maldonado, Sims

 

PAGE3

