 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation

Tuesday, November 14, 2017 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer and Goslin (3)
Absent: Vice-Chairman Moody and Commissioner Tobolski (2)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Schneider asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public Speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Speakers.
Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved that the Workers?
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending

Workers? Compensation. The motion carried.

Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved Approval of the cases over
$25,000.00. The motion carried.

17-6174
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/24/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, to approve
17-6174. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer and Goslin (3)

Absent: Vice-Chairman Moody and Commissioner Tobolski (2)

1. SETTLEMENTS
County Government

JONES. ANTOINE
16 WC 1623]

MARGARET
16 WC 05405

JANET
16 WC 30829

POSLEY, RODNEY
16 WC 10253

SHLIFKA. DIANA
15 WC 28536

VALELA, RICHARD
10 WC 39291

Petitioner was responding to a call to assist an officer when he
stumbled down the stairs, injured his left knee and lower back.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin

moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner tripped on the edge of a file cart and injured her
right arm.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured her left shoulder while attempting to close a
stream valve in Division 1 of Cook County Jail.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his right biceps when he attempted to lift a
patient out of his car onto a stretcher.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured her right wrist when she tripped over a
telephone cord on the floor, fell forward and landed on
outstretched hands.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

The Petitioner injured his right knee while performing an arrest on
an individual.

Commissioner Deer seconded by Commissioner Goslin
moved Approval. The motion carried.

Page 2 of 3

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Deer to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Deer and Goslin (3)

Absent: Vice-Chairman Moody and Commissioner Tobolski (2)

Respectfully submitted,

       



Cl{airman 


 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

 

Page 3 of 3

