Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, March 22, 2017

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-2311
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/7/2017
17-2076
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Von T. Matthews
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Board of Ethics

Page 1 of 3

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 22, 2017

Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 3/8/2021 or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
Legislative History :

3/8/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to Legislation

17-2179
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ann P. Kalayil
Position: Chief, Bureau of Asset Management
Department/Board/Commission: Bureau of Asset Management
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: N/A
Summary: I hereby appoint Ann Kalayil to the position of Chief of the Bureau of Asset Management.
Ann comes to Cook County with a long and successful background in facilities and real estate
management, staff supervision, strategic planning and budgeting. Most recently, Ann served as Regional
Administrator of the U.S. General Services Administration’s Great Lakes Region. As the agency’s
regional chief executive, she headed operations that supported federal agencies and the U.S. Courts in
six states.

Prior to her position at the GSA, Ann worked for more than 18 years at the University of Chicago in
Information Technology Services. She has taught courses at DePaul University, Loyola University
Chicago, and the University of Illinois at Chicago. She received a bachelor’s degree in political science
from the University of Illinois at Chicago, a bachelor’s degree in computer science from Northeastern
Illinois University, and a doctorate from the University of Wisconsin-Madison
Legislative History :

3/8/17 -

Board of Commissioners

Page 2 of 3

-

refer to Legislation

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

March 22, 2017

 