JULY 13, 2009
NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the Environmental Control Committee of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County on Tuesday, July 21, 2009 at the hour of 9:30 AM in the Board Room, Room 569, County
Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:
283402

AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE SECTION 30-387 OPEN BURNING
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Mike Quigley, County Commissioner.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO SECTION 30-387 OPEN BURNING
WHEREAS, the American Lung Association assigned Cook County a failing grade for air
quality in its State of the Air 2006 report, citing dangerously high levels of both particle
and ozone pollution; and
WHEREAS, approximately one million of Cook County’s 5.3 million residents have been
diagnosed with asthma, lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
emphysema, or other lung diseases exacerbated by air pollution; and
WHEREAS, the open burning of domicile waste, also known as household trash, can
produce carcinogenic compounds and carbon monoxide, which, at even low levels of
exposure, can cause a variety of neurological symptoms, including headache, fatigue,
nausea, and vomiting; and
WHEREAS, the open burning of landscape waste also produces air pollution and smoke
that can make breathing difficult for people with asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis,
allergies, and other conditions; and
WHEREAS, residents of unincorporated Cook County are required to contract for regular
trash collection, rendering unnecessary the practice of burning domicile waste; and
WHEREAS, all Cook County municipalities but one have already banned the open
burning of leaves; and
WHEREAS, there are alternatives to the burning of landscape waste, most notably
mulching and composting.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 30, Article III, Division 3, Sec. 30-387 Open burning of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 30-387. Open burning.
(2) The open burning of domicile waste, but only:

(3)

a.

On the premises on which such waste is generated;

b.

In areas other than restricted areas;

c.

When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;

d.

If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks, or airfields; and

e.

When it can be affirmatively demonstrated to the Department
that no reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.

The open burning of landscape waste, but only:

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 2
a.

On the premises on which such waste is generated;

b.

When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;

c.

If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks, or airfields;

d.

In those areas of the County which are not in the following
prohibited areas:

e.

1.

Municipalities in which open burning is prohibited;

2.

Unincorporated areas 1,000 feet or less from a municipality
in which open burning of landscape waste is prohibited; and

When it can be affirmatively demonstrated to the Department
that no reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.

(43) The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the Department.
(54) The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational, and cooling
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in such cases.
(65) Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like.
(c)

Permits.
2.1. Anywhere except on the premises on which such waste
is generated;
2.2. When atmospheric conditions will not readily dissipate
contaminants;
2.3. If such burning creates a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
2.4. Unless it can be affirmatively demonstrated to the
Department that no economically reasonable alternative
method of disposal is available; and

(e)
Enforcement. This section shall apply to all areas within Cook County,
Illinois, except those areas which are governed by an ordinance of another
governmental entity (which by law may not be superseded by this section). It
shall be the obligation of local governments, as well as of the Department, to
enforce by appropriate means the prohibitions in this section.
(Code 1980, § 16-6.11; Ord. of 4-3-1969; Ord. of 4-16-1973.)
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 12/6/06.
285200

AIR POLLUTION OPERATING PERMITS/SITE FEES AND REGULATIONS CALLING
FOR THE REDUCTION IN REGULATED AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS FROM ALL
MINOR AND MAJOR SOURCE FACILITIES IN COOK COUNTY (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Todd H. Stroger,
President, Cook County Board of Commissioners.
SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE
AIR POLLUTION OPERATING PERMITS
WHEREAS, the Cook County area has been designated as an area of non-attainment of
suitable air quality and ozone standards by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency partially due to the air pollution emissions of the expansive industrial businesses
within its boundaries; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook has introduced a number
of air pollution reduction activities as an effort to diminish the detrimental effects of air
pollution on the residents of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the accumulation of greenhouse gases and criteria pollutants in the
atmosphere is forming extremely high levels of ozone and adding to global warming; and

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 3
WHEREAS, as the levels of pollutants in the Cook County area increases, the number of
respiratory and cardiovascular related ailments proportionally increase; and
WHEREAS, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency have established regulatory standards in the areas of
permitting and reporting of air pollution sources in an effort to track and reduce air
pollution levels;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 30, Article III, Division IV, Sections 30-391 through 30-399 of the Cook County
Code of Ordinances are hereby enacted as follows:
Division IV.
30-391
30-392
30-393
30-394
30-395
30-396
30-397
30-398
30-399

Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees and Reductions in
Regulated Air Pollutant Emissions
Recitals.
Public Purpose.
Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
Regulated Air Pollutants.
Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.
Rules and Regulations.
Emission Levels Reduction.
Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.
Effective Date.

Section 30-391. Recitals. The President and the Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook find that all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this Ordinance
are full, true and correct and do incorporate them into this Ordinance by this reference.
Section 30-392. Public Purpose. It is hereby found, determined and declared that the
purpose of this Ordinance is to assist the Board and President in the preservation,
protection and improvement of the air resources in Cook County so as to promote the
health, safety, welfare and comfort of its residents. Cook County may take appropriate
action to regulate air pollution within Cook County and may promote the reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions from all air pollution source facilities.
Section 30-393.
Regulated Air Pollutants. “Regulated Air Pollutant” means the
following:
(a) Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
(b) Carbon oxides (COx)
(c) Ammonia (NH3)
(d) PM (Particulate Matter including PM10 and PM2.5)
(e) Sulfur oxides (SOx)
(f) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
(g) Lead (Pb)
(h) Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard has been promulgated.
Section 30-394. Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall issue initial annual air
pollution operating permits beginning in 2007 and annual air pollution operating permits
thereafter.
Section 30-395. Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.
Any owner of a site which is required by the State of Illinois to have an air pollution
operating permit shall also obtain a filing permit from the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control within 30 days of receipt of its state permit and every three years
thereafter. The owner also must pay annual emissions fees based upon the tonnage of
pollutants emitted.
This requirement does not apply to sites permitted by the Illinois Environmental Agency
solely as (1) retail liquid dispensing facilities that have air pollution control equipment or
(2) agrichemical facilities with an endorsed permit pursuant to Section 39.4 of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act. The owner or operator of a portable emission unit, as
defined in 35 Ill. Adm. Code 201.170 of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, may
change the site of any unit previously permitted without paying an additional fee under
this Section for each site change, provided that no further change to the permit is
otherwise necessary or requested.
Notwithstanding any rules to the contrary, the owner of a permitted site shall remit to the
Cook County Department of Environmental Control the following filing permit fees,
payable every three years upon obtaining or renewing a permit, and annual emissions
fees:

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 4
(1) A site permitted to emit less than 25 tons per year of any combination of regulated
air pollutants as reported by its previous year Annual Illinois Air Emission Report (AER),
shall pay a filing permit fee of $1,000 plus an annual emissions fee of $5 per ton of the
total tonnage of any combination of regulated air pollutants.
(2) A site permitted to emit at least 25 tons per year but less than 50 tons per year of
any combination of regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall
pay a filing permit fee of $1,500 plus an annual emissions fee of $10 per ton of the total
tonnage of any combination of regulated air pollutants.
(3) A site permitted to emit at least 50 tons but less than 100 tons per year of any
combination of regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a
filing permit fee of $2,000 plus an annual emissions fee of $15 per ton of the total
tonnage of any combination of regulated air pollutants.
(4) A site permitted to emit at least 100 tons per year of any combination of regulated
air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a filing permit fee of $2,500
plus an annual emissions fee of $20 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of
regulated air pollutants.
Section 30-396. Rules and Regulations.
(a) The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall establish procedures
for the collection of air pollution filing permit and annual emissions fees.
(b) The Cook County Department of Environmental Control (“Department”) may deny an
application for the issuance, transfer, or renewal of an air pollution operating permit if any
air pollution site fee owed by the applicant has not been paid within 60 days of the due
date, unless the applicant, at the time of application, pays to the Department in advance
the air pollution site fee for the site that is the subject of the operating permit, plus any
other air pollution site fees then owed by the applicant. The denial of an air pollution
operating permit for failure to pay an air pollution site fee shall be subject to review by the
County Environmental Control Board of Appeals pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
30, Article II, Division 4. Section 30-123 of the Counties Code.
(c) If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or
operator of a site was required, but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating
permit, and as a result avoided the payment of permit fees, the Department may collect
the avoided permit fees with or without pursuing enforcement. The avoided permit fees
shall be calculated as double the amount that would have been owed had a permit been
timely obtained. Fees collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into the
Cook County Environmental Management Fund
(d) If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or
operator of a site was required, but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating
permit and as a result avoided the payment of permit fees, an enforcement action may be
brought. In addition to any other relief that may be obtained as part of this action, the
Cook County Department of Environmental Control may seek to recover the avoided
permit fees. The avoided permit fees shall be calculated as double the amount that would
have been owed had a permit been timely obtained. Fees collected pursuant to this
subsection (d) shall be deposited into the Cook County General Fund.
(e) If a Permittee subject to a fee under this Section fails to pay the fee within 90 days of
its due date, or makes the fee payment from an account with insufficient funds to cover
the amount of the fee payment, the Department shall notify the Permittee of the failure to
pay the fee. If the Permittee fails to pay the fee within 60 days after such notification, the
Department may, by written notice, immediately revoke the air pollution operating permit.
Failure of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control to notify the Permittee
of failure to pay a fee due under this Section, or the payment of the fee from an account
with insufficient funds to cover the amount of the fee payment, does not excuse or alter
the duty of the Permittee to comply with the provisions of this Section.
Section 30-397.
Emission Levels Reduction. Permit Holders for sites where
the levels of pollution emissions exceed 100 tons per year of cumulative regulated air
pollutants shall be required to submit an annual “Regulated Air Pollutant Emission
Reduction Plan” to the Cook County Department of Environmental Control for the
Department’s approval. Said plan shall detail efforts that will be made to decrease the
Site’s cumulative regulated pollutant emissions by 10% within the term of the air pollution
operating permit.
(a) Annual Regulated Air Pollutant Emission Reduction Plans submitted to the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control will be verified by reviewing the
Site/Permitee’s Illinois Annual Air Emission Report (AER).

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 5
(b) Established Regulated Air Pollutant emission reductions exceeding 10% on an
annual basis will allow a 10% credit reduction of the following year annual air permit fee.
(c) Failure to reduce Regulated Air Pollutant emissions as indicated in the County
approved Reduction Plan may result in penalty fees or loss of permit.
Section 30-398, Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.
(a) Each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit its Illinois AER to the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control within 1 month of the submittal of the AER to the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(b) Additionally, each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit quarterly reports
detailing the individual pollution emission levels for its fuel burning devices and
cumulative values of pollution emissions within the quarterly period.
Section 30-399. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect within ninety (90) days
of passage.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 03/1/07.
** Substitute Ordinance accepted, and Communication Number 285200 was
deferred on May 15, 2007.
***Deferred at the meeting of 09-11-07.
289623

CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY, by Timothy C. Evans, Chief Judge, transmitting a
Communication:
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of
bottled drinking water.
Contract period: April 11, 2008 through April 10, 2009. (310-350 Account). Requisition
No. 83100001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 10/2/07.

291517

COOK COUNTY GREEN COURTS INITIATIVE RESOLUTION (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Mike Quigley, County
Commissioner.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Resolution:
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COOK COUNTY GREEN COURTS INITIATIVE RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, a Green Courts Task Force, comprising representatives from the Chicago
Bar Association, the Cook County Clerk of the Circuit Court and the Chief Judge’s offices,
private attorneys, information technology representatives, and one Cook County
Commissioner, has been created and is charged with the duty of investigating and
facilitating ways to convert the Cook County court system, and ultimately the greater legal
community, into a paperless system.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
that the Office of the Clerk of the Cook County Circuit Court and the Office of the Chief
Judge are hereby directed to develop a Green Courts Initiative, with the aid of the Green
Courts Task Force, designed to develop a comprehensive paper waste reduction
program that incorporates regular, systematic green practices in the courts; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Green Courts Initiative should include a paper
waste reduction program, including a comprehensive program for paper, print cartridges
and other packaging materials, and should mandate the use of recycled-paper for all
filings, and should allow for double-sided documents, whenever possible; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Courts Task Force seeks the cooperation
of the Illinois Supreme Court, the Administrative Office of the Illinois Court and the Circuit
Court of Cook County in its efforts to incorporate green practices in the courts by
developing a Green Courts Initiative; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Courts Task Force shall further encourage
the Chicago Bar Association to create its own voluntary paper use reduction program by
actively encouraging its members including individuals, firms, private and public entities
alike to participate in such a program; and

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 6
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and the
Office of the Chief Judge organize a task force to oversee the development of a
permanent electronic file and serve system where paper files are eliminated and
electronic documents become the official court record with the ultimate goal being to
establish a paperless court system; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Courts Task Force should further develop
support networks to encourage the use of a permanent electronic filing system and also
seek to amend any rules, acts, ordinances, resolutions or other legislation necessary to
support a paperless system; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Green Courts Task Force should provide a report
to the Board no later than six months after the passage of this Resolution, and every six
months after with an evaluation and reports of the paper waste reduction program and
electronic filing system, when approved by the Illinois Supreme Court; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be prepared and
presented to the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the Office of the Chief Judge, the
Chicago Bar Association, the Illinois Supreme Court, and the Administrative Office of the
Illinois Supreme Court.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 01/9/08.
292098

RESOLUTION PROPOSING DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND CARBON DIOXIDE REDUCTION PROGRAMS FOR COOK
COUNTY BUILDINGS (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution
sponsored by William M. Beavers, County Commissioner.
The following is synopsis of the Proposed Resolution:
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION PROPOSING DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CARBON DIOXIDE REDUCTION PROGRAMS FOR
COOK COUNTY BUILDINGS
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners
of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners
support the pending Energy and Emission Reduction Request for Proposals and pending
contracts that will generate deliverables that will benefit Cook County by:
1. Complying with the CO2 reductions as required by the Chicago Climate
Exchange and place Cook County in a revenue generating position with the
Chicago Climate Exchange;
2. Reducing Cook County use of electricity, natural gas, gasoline and water
resulting in a reduction in its emissions of carbon dioxide;
3. Benchmark Cook County facilities for EnergyStar and LEED Existing Building
certification;
4. Decreasing the cost of utilities for Cook County by hundreds of thousands of
dollars a year.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President and the Board of Commissioners that
each energy efficiency and carbon dioxide reduction initiative will be assessed in an effort
to: 1) determine the fiscal, personnel, and operational impact on the using department or
agency affected by the initiative; 2) determine whether fiscal, personnel, and operational
resources exist for implementation of said proposed initiative; and, 3) conduct a costbenefit-analysis of the intiative so as to determine whether the initiative can be sustained
monetarily and to determine the risks associated with a decision to not implement said
initiative.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 02/6/08.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 7

296490

COOK COUNTY ANNUAL INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION OF OPERATION
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT (Proposed Ordinance Amendment).
Transmitting a
Communication dated September 26, 2008, by Kevin N. Givens, Director Department of
Environmental Control:
requesting authorization to modify the Environmental Control Ordinance, specifically
Chapter 30, Sections 30-231 and 30-233 to allow the Department to better meet
inspection requirements.

A similar modification to the Environmental Control Ordinance for commercial sites was
authorized by the Cook County Board of Commissioners during the May 15, 2007 Cook
County Board meeting.
COOK COUNTY ANNUAL INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment by Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY ANNUAL INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
OF OPERATION ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30
Environment, Sections 30-231 and 30-233 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 30-231.

Generally.

An annual inspection shall be made by the Department of all fuel-burning,
combustion or process equipment or devices coming under the provisions of this chapter,
whether or not a certificate of operation or allowable fuel certificate allowing use of such
equipment or process has been previously issued by the Director to see that such
equipment or process can be so managed and operated that no smoke, particulate, or
other matter shall be emitted there from in violation of any emission limitation or other
requirement provided under this chapter; provided, however, that no annual inspection
shall be required of locomotives, ships, boats, tugs, internal combustion engines,
domestic heating plants, or domestic refuse-burning equipment; and provided, also, that
where any fuel-burning combustion or process equipment or device has been installed,
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, added to, or repaired pursuant to a permit
issued under Section 30-151, has been inspected in accordance with the requirements of
Section 30-232 hereof, and has been in operation less than six months, an annual
inspection will not be required until six months from the date such equipment was first put
under fire after the completion of such work. Commercial and industrial sites will not
require an annual inspection. Inspections of the fuel burning equipment and processes
for commercial and industrial sites will be conducted on a random schedule as
designated by the Director. Upon notice that the equipment has been found to comply
with the provisions of the chapter, and after payment of the prescribed fee, the Director
shall issue a certificate of operation, which shall be posted in a conspicuous place within
the plant. If, at the time of the annual inspection, it is found that the equipment is in such
condition that it cannot be operated within the provisions of the chapter, the Director shall
give notice in writing to the person owning, operating, or in charge of such equipment of
the defects found and order the person to correct, repair, or replace the defective
equipment. Failure to comply with this order within 30 days from its date shall be a
violation of this section, and the Director is hereby authorized to seal the equipment. No
person shall violate the seal on any equipment that has been sealed at the direction of
the Director unless authorized by the Director in writing to do so.
Sec. 30-233.

Certificate of operation - Issuance; posting.

Upon a finding that any fuel-burning, combustion or process equipment or device
inspected, on any original, annual or subsequent inspection, has been found to comply
with the provisions of this chapter and after payment of the prescribed fee, the Director
shall issue a certificate of operation which shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the equipment or process. Certificates of operation will be issued on a schedule
determined by the Director. The certificate of operation shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the equipment or process. Any certificate of operation may contain such
information and certifications as the Director may require. Commercial and industrial sites
will receive a certificate of operation from the Department based on information in the
Emission Inventory Master File. This file is updated as specified by the Director either (1)

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 8
based on information and documentation submitted to the Department by the site or (2)
by inspection.
Effective Date:

This Ordinance shall be in full force and effective immediately
upon adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 10/1/08.
296491

AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 32 FEES (ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL).
Transmitting a Communication dated September 26, 2008 by Kevin N. Givens, Director,
Department of Environmental Control:
requesting authorization to amend Chapter 32 Fees (Environmental Control) due to an
error in a past amendment. The Cook County Board of Commissioners previously
amended Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1, Chapter 30, Environment on February 21, 2007
(Ordinance 07-O-16). The proposed amendments do not involve new fees, rather these
amendments offer language corrections and include schedules that were inadvertently
omitted during the codification process.
Specifically, the amendment offered corrects wording at the beginning of Section 3096(4)c; clarifies storage tank capacities in Section 30-97(3) that were missing or
incorrectly classified; includes Section 30-97(3)c which was missing altogether; includes
a category that was missing in Section 30-97(5) for the air flow rate of devices or
apparatus used to control air pollution and corrects language at the beginning of Section
30-98(1).
Additionally, the amendment offered includes Section 30-600 which should be added to
reinstate the Open Burning Fee Schedule, which was inadvertently omitted during the
codification process and Section 30-96(1) should be changed to remove the reference of
Open Burning from the Installation Permit Fee Schedule.
AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 32 FEES ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a proposed ordinance amendment sponsored
by Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 32 FEES (ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL)
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article 7,
Section 6a of the Illinois Constitution of 1970 with power to regulate those matters which
pertain to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Environmental Control enforces the
Environmental Control Ordinance, which regulates air pollutants, noise, vibration, indoor
asbestos abatement, and solid waste management; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Environmental Control charges fees to offset the cost of
inspecting and permitting regulated activities and to encourage the prudent use of natural
resources.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule.

CHAPTER 30, ENVIRONMENT
Effective date: This Ordinance amendment shall be effective upon adoption.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 10/1/08.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 9

299723

COOK COUNTY CLEAN AND GREEN (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a
Proposed Resolution sponsored by Deborah Sims, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COOK COUNTY CLEAN AND GREEN
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board seeks to protect its employees and preserve the
natural environment; and
WHEREAS, President Barack Obama has made the environment and energy a priority
by introducing a $150 billion plan to create green jobs and energy independence; and
WHEREAS, Green Seal (GS-37) is the most recognized certifier of green cleaning
products in the United States. GS-37 certified products go through a stringent, sciencebased evaluation process to show that they have less impact on the environment and
human health; and
WHEREAS, there is substantial evidence showing that GS-37 approved cleaning
supplies are not harmful to one’s health and do not release toxic fumes as do
conventional chemical products; and
WHEREAS, conventional cleaning products and GS-37 certified cleaning products are
comparably priced; and
WHEREAS, GS-37 certified products are readily available to Cook County suppliers,
vendors and anyone who wishes to purchase them; and
WHEREAS, pre-measured and concentrated cleaning products offer substantial help to
the environment, reduce shipping costs, increase available storage space, prevent waste
and increase accountability among Cook County Board employees.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
seeks to implement a Green Cleaning Supply Ordinance that requires that all cleaning
products used in Cook County facilities, purchased by Cook County and contracted
vendors be Green Seal (GS-37) certified in order to help the environment and preserve
the health of Cook County employees and residents. Pre-measured and concentrated
cleaning products will be included in all bids for Cook County Board cleaning products.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 04/2/09.

300830

AMENDS CLEAN INDOOR AIR (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Gregg Goslin,
County Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDS CLEAN INDOOR AIR
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30
Environment, Section 30-915 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 30-915. Reasonable distance.
Smoking is prohibited within 15 30 feet of any entrance, exit, windows
that open or ventilation intakes to an enclosed area in which smoking is
prohibited.
Effective date. This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon
passage.
*Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control 06/2/09.

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 21, 2009
PAGE 10
**The following is a Substitute Amendment to Communication No. 300830:
SUBSTITUTE AMENDMENT
SPONSORED BY COMMISSIONER GREGG GOSLIN
AMENDS CLEAN INDOOR AIR ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30
Environment, Section 30-916, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 30-901. Smoking policy for county facilities.
(b) Reasonable distance. Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of an enclosed
area of any County facility, except for County owned health facilities in
which case smoking is prohibited within 30 feet, so as to prohibit
congestion at exits that could constitute fire hazard in the event of an
emergency evacuation of the County facility.
Effective date. This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon
passage.

____________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Silvestri
Steele
Beavers, Gainer, Gorman, Moreno, Peraica

 