REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH & HOSPITALS
July 14, 2010
The Honorable, 

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County 

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Beavers, Claypool,
Collins, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider,
Sims and Steele (15)

Absent:

Commissioners Silvestri and Suffredin (2)

Also
Present:

Patrick Driscoll, Jr. - Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau; William
Foley - Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System; Michael
Ayres - Chief Financial Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System; Dr. Terry
Mason - Chief Medical Officer for the Cook County Health & Hospitals System.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Health & Hospitals of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Wednesday, July 14, 2010 at the hour of 11 :00 A.M. in the Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Butler acknowledged the presence of Chairman Warren Batts and the System Health
Board members David Ansell, David Carvalho, Heather O'Donnell and Sister Sheila Lyne.
Chairman Butler informed the committee that the meeting will begin by having a presentation
from William Foley, Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System.
Mr. Foley stated to the Committee that he was joined by Dr. Terry Mason, Chief Medical Officer
for the Cook County Health & Hospitals System and Mr. Michael Ayres, Chief Financial Officer
for the Gook County Health & Hospitals System. Mr. Foley thanked the Cook County Health &
Hospitals Board of Directors for attending the meeting and for their support of the strategic plan.
Mr. Foley stated that this strategic plan calls for a fundamental redesign of the County Health
System al')d it calls for a realignment of resources. On its own it is not a cost reduction plan;
other initiatives are in place addressing increased efficiencies and cost reductions across the
System. Mr. Foley stated what you will be able to see in the presentation is that this strategic
plan is cost neutral; a major focus of the plan is enhancing access of their services to the
patients and this is not possible unless the System Board realigns the resources that are
currently in place. Further, Mr. Foley stated that this plan will be funded within the resources
that the System Board currently has. In some areas of the Health System the plan calls for a
discontinuation of services to allow the Health System to invest in other areas to expend access
to services. In conclusion, Mr. Foley stated that this strategic plan is a growth plan and the
System Board will demonstrate to the Commissioners that with the implementation of the plan
the Health System will actually expand the ability to treat more outpatients, both primary care
and specialty outpatients through the clinics and Health System by about 50% over five (5)

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE,

,'ORT

JULY 14, 2010
PAGE 2

years. Mr. Foley informed the Committee that this plan does anticipate health reform, which
was passed March 2010; this reform caused the Health System to take a step back and look at
the plan and make sure that the Health System was positioning itself for health reform. Mr.
Foley stated that the plan will not please everyone and the Health System had to make some
tough decisions and choices in developing the plan. He believes that it is the best plan for the
purposes that the Health System is trying to achieve in terms of expanding access for the
services to the patients.
Mr. Foley gave the Committee an overview on the Vision 2015 Strategic Direction. The Health
System has been working on the strategic plan for about 14 months; during the process he
stated that he believes that they have engaged the various constituencies of the Health System
within the County, within the Health System, and within the community, and that other providers
have very engaged in the process. Mr. Foley informed the Committee that last summer the
Health System conducted seven (7) town hall meetings that were scheduled across the County
geographically in order to achieve the most participation in attendance. At the town hall
meetings individuals were not only allowed to provide their input but also had surveys and
questionnaires that were distributed and the Health System Board was able to receive a lot of
input and information. The first round of town hall meetings were held to ask the public what
their perceptions were of the Health System in order to assist the Health System Board in
de-veloping the strategies in the plan. The second round of town hall meetings occurred in the
fall, when the System Health Board presented the prelimi'nary plan and strategies, and received
a significant input again at the meetings.
Mr. Foley informed the Committee that the strategic plan was approved by the Health System
Board in June and it is now before the Cook County Commissioners today. Early on in the
process the System Health Board did a detailed assessment of the County's market
demographic analysis to identify where the healthcare needs are throughout the County. Mr.
Foley stated that there are significant unmet needs that exist throughout the County; there are
large disparities in access to healthcare in the location of healthcare services. The System
Board's resources are disproportionately centered on the inpatient environment and cannot
sustain the current service delivery model based on the changes in healthcare. The cost
structure requires significant realignment in order to drive efficiency. ,(See Attachment A).
Chairman Botler stated that the written statements should be entered into the record.
Chairman Butler asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1. Laurence' Msall, President, Civic Federation
2. Dr. Quentin Young, Chairman, Health and Medicine Policy Research Group
3. Victoria Bigelow, President, Access to Care 

'4. Dr. Enrique Martinez, Interim Chief Operating Officer, ACHN 

5. Dr. Richard Keen, Chair, Surgery, CCHHS
6. Christine Boardman, President, SEIU Local 73
7. John Cameron, Director of Political Relations, AFSCME
8. Betty Boles, Vice President, SEIU Local 73
'
9. Leslie Curtis, Midwest Director, National Nurses Organizing Committee
10. Batu Shakari, Registered Nurse, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
11. Carl Wolf, Community Organizer, Respond Now
12. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

 tlEAL TH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE h~)ORT
JULY 14,2010
PAGE

3

13. Elizabeth Watson, Concerned Citizen
14. Joyce Edmund, Concerned Citizen
15. Lee Mayberry, Concerned Citizen
16. Dr. Charles E. Williams, Concerned Citizen
17. 6renda Langford, President, National Nurses Organizing Committee
18. Dorothy Ahmad, Registered Nurse
19. Denise Myles, Registered Nurse, National Nurses Organizing Committee
20. Mary Michalowicz, Concerned Citizen,
21. Mary Collins, Concerned Citizen
22. Rose Stapleton, 1st Vice President, AFSCME
WRITTEN STATEMENT ONLY

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.
7.
8.
9.

Dr. Fidel Abrego, Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology, CCHHS
Dr. Leon Fogelfeld, Chair, Division of Endocrinology, CCHHS/RUMc
Dr. Larry Goodman, President and CEO, Rush University Medical Center
John Peller, Director of Government Relations, AIDS Foundation of Chicago
Reuben J. Pettiford, Chief Executive Officer, Family Christian Health Center
Richard M. Jaffee, Chairman, Rush University Medical Center
Donna Thompson, Chief Executive Officer, Access Cornmunity Health Network
Wayne M. Lerner, President and CEO, Holy Cross Hospital
Carmen Velasquez, Founder and Director, Alivio Medical Center

RECORD OF APPERANCE ONLY

1. Pastor Jeffrey Mullins, Healthcare Consortium of Illinois
Commissioner Daley asked if Dr. Mason or Mr. Foley would respond to the concerns that were
voiced by the various speakers.
Mr. Foley stated that the System Health Board believes that with the new plan more patients
can be seen. The outpatient capacity at Oak Forest Hospital will increase by more than four (4)
times.
Commissioner Daley stated that he shares Mr. Foley's concern and agrees that the strategic
plan is very good; he has always supported the healthcare budget. Further, Commissioner
Daley stated that he is concerned about the money; he asked Mr. Foley if he was confident
based upon the votes that the System Health Board would have support to bond this.
Mr. Foley stated that the System Health Board needs those capital dollars to build and expand
the regional outpatient centers and clinics, and for the investment in IT which is a large part of
the capital plan.
Commissioner Sims inquired as to whether the System Health Board had applied for the (CON)
Certificate of Need.

 .-IEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE h_.JORT
JULY 14,2010

PAGE 4

Mr. Foley responded that the strategic plan needed to be approved prior to going to the State
and applying for any kind of Certificate of Need. Services can be suspended by notifying the
State without a Certificate of Need, which is another alternative that the System Health Board is
looking at. In terms of acquiring an official Certificate of Need from the State at this point the
System Health Board would not do that until they had an approved strategic plan.
David Carvalho, System Health Board Member, responded that a Certificate of Need is not
necessary to reduce beds, but a Certificate of Need is needed to add beds and to eliminate
beds. But if you reduce beds within the parameters that they are referring to it would be fine.
However, the important point here is that this is not the implementation plan that was presented
to the Commissioners, this is the vision.
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:
307672  

COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM, HEALTH SYSTEM'S FIVE
YEAR STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL PLAN. Transmitting a Communication from
Warren L. Batts, Chairman, and William T. Foley, Chief Executive Officer:
Pursuant to the Ordinance establishing the Cook County Health & Hospitals
System, the Board of Directors of the Health System respectfully submits the
Health System's Five-Year Strategic and Financial Plan to the Cook County Board
of Commissioners for its approval.
The Health System began the planning process for its Five-Year Strategic and
Financial Plan in May of 2009. This process entailed extensive community input
and participation from a variety of stakeholders. At the outset of the process, as
well as while the Plan evolved, the Health System conducted a series of Town Hall
meetings for the public throughout the County. The Health System also held a
series of employee, staff and physician Town Hall meetings at various System
Affiliates. In addition, over 500 patients and other stakeholders were interviewed
regarding their assessment of the County's healthcare needs and the Health
System's current state.
System leadership and staff have been closely involved in all phases of the
planning process. Physicians and staff participated in four (4) Service Line
Working Groups established to make recommendations on the configuration of the
delivery 'of healthcare services in critical areas. .
The Five-Year StrategiC and Financial PI;:=m presented for the County Board's
approval is the culmination of this collaborative process. The ultimate goal of the
Plan is to provide more access and more care within available resources. The
guiding principle of the planning process was to create a healthcare delivery
framework to provide for more appropriate access to care for the vulnerable
population in Cook County within available resources.
In support of the Health System's mission, the vision of the Five-Year Strategic
and Financial Plan is that the Health System will be recognized locally, regionally,
and nationally - and by patients and employees - as a progressively evolving
model for an accessible, integrated, patient-centered, and fiscally responsible

 I

.cAlTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REI' ..iRT
JULY 14, 2010
PAGE 5

healthcare system focused on assuring high quality care and improving the health
of residents of Cook County.
The Ordinance establishing the Health System provides that the County Board
shall approve each Strategic and Financial Plan if, in its judgment, the Strategic
and Financial Plan is complete, is reasonably capable of being achieved, and
meets the requirements set forth in the Ordinance. After the System Board
submits a Strategic and Financial Plan to the President and the County Board, the
County Board shall approve or reject such Strategic and Financial Plan within 45
days or such Strategic and Financial Plan is deemed approved.
The Health System Board respectfully requests that this item be referred to the
Health & Hospitals Committee.
*Referred to the Committee on Health & Hospitals on 07-13-10.
Commissioner Beavers moved to Defer (Comm. No. 307672), seconded by Commissioner
Murphy. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as
follows:
ROll CAll ON MOTION TO DEFER 

COMMUNICATION NO. 307672 


Yeas:

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy and Sims (3)

Nays

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Peraica, Reyes and Schneider (9) ,

Absent:

Commissioners Collins, Moreno, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (5)

The motion to Defer (Comm. No. 307672) FAilED.
Commissioner Peraica moved approval of (Comm. No. 307672), seconded by
Commissioner Gorman. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas
and nays being as follows:
ROll CAll ON MOTION TO APPROVE 

COMMUNICATION NO. 307672 


Yeas:

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Peraica, Reyes and Schneider (9)

Nays

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy and Sims (3)

Absent:

Commissioners Collins, Moreno, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (5)

The motion to approve (Comm. No. 307672) CARRIED.

 .,':ALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE RE ...JRT
JULv14,2010
PAGE

6

Commissioner Peraica moved to reconsider the vote by which (Comm. No. 307672) was
approved, seconded by Commissioner Daley. A Roll Call Vote was taken, the vote of
yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO RECONSIDER
COMMUNICATION NO. 307672

Yeas:

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy and Sims (3)

Nays:

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Peraica, Reyes and Schneider (9)

Absent:

Commissioners Collins, Moreno, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (5)

The motion to Reconsider FAILED, and Communication No. 307672 was approved.

Commissioner Peraica moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Daley.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 307672

Approved

Respectf lIy submitted, 

Commi
on Health & Hospitals 


Attest:

** The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 ATTACHMENT A

VISION 2015

Strategic Direction
July 2010
Presented by:
William T. Foley
Chief Executive Officer

 .'

Process Timeline
j ",

Discovery
Comm unity/Stakeholder In put

.

..

I"

.helir#jft!li~*r.lh!tr'i.¥tjjlt·'.
h.,.?r
.......................

' . p "

•


1"",

Individual Interviews/Group
Meetings

~·It'
•••
'----.
-. fllij• •;¥_·.~

Strategic Direction Developed

,

--~.

.fII"

..... h
",. ,'--:

,

- .. '"

' . .:

,,<,.'

ji.II1flllifl'litr_,.lII.'W

",.---r-:''".,...,.'''''''-''~",",,''''''''-''

Town Hall Meetings

I ....ilrfllrU.t;;(;';'..... .·.'"
>i("/:" .'. . . .......

Ii

Action Planning

11:'_""
.'

1t1l1l1• •

.Passage ofHealtb Reform

_.,-,-­

r


I',

•

I'""

lhirf,c.r$fWj;·trl.""
Financial Planning

CCHHS Board Approves Strategic
Plan
Cook County Board Consideration of
the Strategic Plan

t'"

~··IiI·I.l.lf1flll.·I!'
r

•

v


 •

Current State Assessment
.c'.  

".

. ...•• Significantunmet healthcare needs.
•   Large disparities in access to healthcare and location of
. healthcare services.
•   System resources are disproportionately centered around
inpatient environment.
•   Can not sustain current service delivery model in the changing
environment.
•   Cost structure requires significant realignment to drive
efficiency.

3

 "


CCHHS Uninsured vs. Other Hospitals 


4

1"

CCHHS Hospitals

2

OSF Saint Francis Medical Center

3

Mount Sinai Hospital

4

Advocate Christ Medical Center

5

Advocate Illinois Masonic Med. Ctr.

6

Ingalls Memorial Hospital

7

University of Chicago Hospitals

8

Mercy Hospital & Medical Center

9

Norwegian-American Hospital

10

St. Francis Hospital & Hlth. Ctr.

11

HolyCross Hospital

12

Saint Mary of Nazareth Hosp. Ctr.

$ 496,500,000

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

Source: Illinois Department of Health and Family Services 2006

32,474,000
30,266,000
28,085,000
20,833,000
19,239,000
17,593,000
11,862,000
11,748,000
11,625,000
11,504,000
10,037,000

 Disparities in Access 

CCHHS access points are not
aligned with the poorer parts
of the county, many of which
have seen considerable
population migration
L eke

CCHHS Locations and 

Median Household 

Income by ZIP Code 

,

ACHN Locations

D

Hospitals

Median HH Income (2007)
•

$100}000 to $500)000

•

$75}000

D
D

to $99}999
to $74}999 

$25)000 to $49) 999 

$0 to $24}999

Sources: CCHHS; Microsoft MapPoint data

5

Mi

 .... The Impact of Healthcare Reform for CCHHS 


+
II Fewer uninsured and

·underinsured.
II Increase in available 


II There will remain a 


significant patient 

population with no 

•
Insurance coverage. 


healthcare dollars. 

II Declining federal

funding.
II Increasing numbers of

patients will have a
choice.
6

 "The Impact of Healthcare Reform 

Cook County 


Pre-Reform:

Post-Reform: 


·.850,000+ Uninsured

225,000+ Uninsured 


So",",,; IPUMS ACS SamPle. stoven RUflgies, 

MalthewSObek, TnmI_andet; Cdt!etineA Fitch. 

Ralaid Goeke", Pabicia /fsI1y Hall, Miriam i<ing. 

",a Chad Ramander. ldegtafed Public U.. MiclOdala

VersIon4.0IMB _ _blodatabase].
Minneapciis, MN: Minnescta Pq:xiatk>r/ Cf1n1.et
[produoeranddis/dJutorJ. 2{)10.

sene.:

""Clm1goHe.,.. .

rrO

J

7


Metro CflIcago IrformaliooCenlet'
17 N. staleSlreel Suftel600
Chlcago IL 0060:2

P; 312.580.2878
F;312.~.2879
\WJY/~.org

May 2010

 GUIDING PRINCIPLES 


,c:. Shift to a population-centered vs. hospital-centered health
··delivery model.
··11 Enhance accessibility to services .
.• .Align service delivery with population demand for services.
•   Build specialty care capability to fulfill unrnet needs.
•   Extend primary care services through partnerships.
•   Provide quality-cost effective healthcare.
•   Focus on service excellence, employee satisfaction, and 

leadership development. 

•   Strengthen CCHHS image in the market.
8

 Core Goals
Access to Health Services

,II. "Quality, Service Excellence, and Cultural
.. Competence
III. Service Line Strength
IV. Staff Development
V. Leadership Stewardship
9

 CCHHS Facilities

• Fantus
• OakForest
•   ACHN Clinics as
Primary Care
Centers

• ACHN Clinics
as Primary Care I • Provident
Centers

•   Partnerships with
FQHC's, CHC's,
and other agencies

•   Partnerships
with FQHC's,
CHC's, and
other agencies

10 


• JohnH.
Stroger, Jr.
Hospital
• Provident
Hospital

• Partnerships

 Expanded Outpatient Locations 


=

Ambulatory Community
Health Network

®

C) ACHN Sites

Comprehensive Community
Health Center

CcHc~

Regional Outpatient Center
ROC

11 


NCook

;~~~4;4~;~~4~1

 Forecast for Primary
Care and Specialty Care 

.
Visits 2006 - 2015 

.

12

Source: CCHHS, ICS Analysis

 '.

"",.

,;j\tl~'hrecastGrowth of Primary Care and Specialty 

.

.

":Care Visits at Provident and Oak Forest 

150K

105K

2009
iii 2015
.siiJ

Provident
13

Oak Forest
Source: CCHHS, ICS Analysis

 Redistribution of Annual Operating Cash 

. . Cash Savings from
Operations

Provident

14 


$17M

Investments in
Reconfigured Operations

($23M)

Enhance Service 

Lines/Infrastructure

($72M)

Totallnvestments· 


 County Subsidies 2009 - 2015 (in millions)* 

FY09

FYI0 FYll

FY12

FY13

FY14

FY15 


o
(,50,000)

.{100,OOO)
(150,OOO)
(200,000)

• Actual Subsidies
1 - - • Strategic Plan
• Without Strategic Plan

(250,000)
(300,000)
(350,000)
(400,000)
(450,000)
(500,000)

.....

.IlIIfiiij--~-'--'-~-'-----.......

.........

.........

~-------?

,/

* Subsidies do not include the following indirect costs: Workers Compensation, Malpractice Insurance,
15

Self-Insurance Settlements, Pension, Debt Service Charges.

 . Strategic Capital Requirements 2011 - 2015 

•IT Infrastructure

I',

$57.4M

~rn•••i.;~~.l.\liItilllllllfiil1r._'i.ul1iJlli.j'~

$92M

i",
.
,
.llIfi···.II.ti'{ ',hlil•••• tifIllitiiliilrllirMllI"W...II'.lmt¥

$9M

~f~

Fantus Rebuild

~

'

'

PC clinic expansion/upgrade
CCRC clinic expansion/upgrade

$13M

.

,
J"

....................,..... '.', "f;.'.·.>".' . . ~•. , "liIWi,
..~ 


•ilJUlunu
"'f':'WlhfIiflr'fifttJtYihftfftl'
.Ii. .,.....
." ".
l",.. . ,

$12M

Forecasted Strategic Capital 

Requirements 


16 


lull.rtf"'"
t'.,.

$19M

$202.4M

~

.

Provident restructuring

Oak Forestredevelopment

.

J "-.

'fUI.'lhilr~

 .


Expected Benefits
"

.'

.,';. 

,,;,.

.


,.,t.~'Improved Access

to Healthcare Services

"II Improved Customer ServicelPatient Satisfaction

" I I Growth in Services to 900K Outpatient Visits by 2015
II Accountable and Patient Focused Workforce
II Performance Driven Leadership
II Improved Infrastructure
17

 ORAL TESTIMONY

I am Quentin Young, Chairma..'1 of the Health and Medicine Policy Research Group. I
also trained in internal medicine at Cook County Hospital in the 1950s and was chairman
of the Department of Medicine for the decade of the 1970s. Since then I have been the
leader of Health and Medicine, an organization that has been committed for 30 years to
supporting policies that help the county health system fulfill its mission of serving all in
need in the county.

This strategic plan, in our opinion, is meritorious because it makes a commitment to basic
primary care services throughout our large County at a time when the economy and
particularly the health care economy threatens the funding mechanism of the county
health system.

It is a truism of medicine that primary care prevention is superior medically and
economically to in-hospital care, no matter how effective. This plan recognizes this
principle and builds on a primary carel prevention foundation and recognizes the scarcity
of specialty services across the county. Therefore this strategy requires solid
relationships with inpatient partners in the private sector. These partnerships must be in
plac~

before any closures of services are implemented.

The strategic plan places emphasis on developing staff, developing leadership and seeks
to improve patient satisfaction. As health reform unfolds these elements will be essential
to the County Health system's ability to participate in the new national environment.

 We urge that the Cook County Board of Commissioners endorse this broad strategic plan.
This will lay the foundation for the future developments and changes needed to ensure a
heahhsarety net for the people of Cook County.

 to Care

THE GAP fOR THE UNINSURED

2225 Enterprise Drive. Suite 2507 • Westchester, Illinois 60154
(708) 531-0680 • FAX (708) 531-0686. www.accesstocare.org

I am Victoria Bigelow, President ofthe Access to Care program. I am here to testify in
favor of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System Strategic Plan.
The reason we at Access to Care favor the plan is that it reflects the Access to Care
philosophy of decentralization. The Plan is a way to get more services to the communities
rather than centralizing them all at Stroger Hospital. We particularly like the Regional
Outpatient Centers which have several locations in the suburbs. Cook County is a big
place and the effort to bring specialty care to the Regional Outpatient Centers is much
appreciated.
Cook County is limited in the number of sites that it can put in place. The Plan involves
relationships with private providers who have deeper reaches into suburban areas than the
county can reasonably go. We favor these partnerships as well, and hope to be included
in their number. Convenient, affordable, local care is the key requirement in the majority
of cases, which obviates the need for emergency or even specialty care. This is how
Access to Care helps the county now, and how it hopes to in the future.

SUburban Primary Health Care Council*
* A not-for-profit organization founded by: the Community and Economic pevelop~ent
Association of Cook County, Inc.; the Cook County Department ofPubhc Health, the
Northwest Suburban Cook County Health Care Task force; and the Park Forest Health
Department.
A United Way Agency

 LOCAL 73
Statement to the Health & Hospital Committee

bz
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

SEIU 

Stronger Together
SERVICE EMPLOYEES 

INTERNATIONAl UNION 

LOCAl 73 

www.seiu73.org
CHRISTINE BOARDMAN

Good morning. My name is Christine Boardman and I am the President of SEIU
local 73. We represent approximately 1500 members that work in many
capacities from service and maintenance to profeSSional within the Cook County
Health and Hospital System.

President

MATT BRANDON
S~retary-Treasurer

BETTY BOLES
Vice President

DALEHILUER

At the outset, let me state that I believe the general direction of the Strategic 

Plan as approved by the Cook County Health & Hospital Board is generally the 

correct direction given the current economics and the passage of the federal 

Health Care Reform Act. 


Vice President

TIM McDONAlD
VK:e President

TAAUB-DIN ZIYAD
Vice President

PHIL MARTINI
Vice President

I also believe that William Foley and Tony Tedeschi are doing a good job in trying
to rapidly readjust our public health system to meet our current economic
realities.
However, I also believe that there are some flaws and omissions of the Strategic
Plan that must be addressed.

MARK McQUEEN
Recording Secretary

CHICAGO
300 South Ast:r!and Avenue
Suite 400
Chicago, Il 60607-2884
312.787-5868
Fax; 312.337-7768

SPRINGFIELD
600 South Fourth Street
Springfield, Il62703-1641
217.522-1182
Fax: 21 7.522-9183

ELGIN
2400 Big Timber Road
Building B, Suite 101
Elgin,ll60124-7811
B47.742-2825
Fax: B47.742-o212
CHAMPAIGN/uRB~

1606 Willow View Road
Suite 2A
Urbana, Il 61 B02-7446
217.328-7509
Fax; 217.328-2040

GARY, INDIANA
3750 Hayes
Gary, IN 46408-2025
219.BB4-490 1
Fax: 219.B84-1821

1.   The current Strategic Plan does not adequately address the opportunities
that also exist for aQditional income streams from the Federal government.
15 billion dollars has been allocated to FQHCs (Federal Qualified Health
Centers) across our country. Our current ACHN clinic system of 16 clinics are
not FQHC qualified although many ofthem were in previous years. This
could easily be remedied by reauthorizing them as FQBC's which could be
done even under the current Board structure. The StrategiC Plan addresses
outside partnerships, but fails to look at the opportunities within. This must
and can be remedied & I strongly recommend that this be immediately
reviewed before final approval of the Strategic Plan.
2.   The fact that the Southland community, which is principally African American
and latino, is a desert, and devoid of even other FOBCs, when it comes to
the uninsured and poor but Medicaid qualified population. Closure of the
Emergency Room at Oak Forest Hospital will drive away potential future
clients of the (CHHS. It is possible to move to the outpatient primary care
model, even as a smaller Emergency Room is still available to those in need.
We are not tatking about a level 1 Trauma center, but an Emergency Room
that can easily address the immediate problems of immediate ambulatory
health care problems.

 3.   The physical limitations of Oak Forest Hospital are drastically exaggerated.
We strongly believe that closure of the Emergency Room at Oak Forest
Hospital does more to take away from the mission and direction of the
Strategic Plan and we ask that the plan be modified to keep the Emergency
Room open with a small number of short stay beds similar to the plan for
Provident Hospital.
4.   The Strategic Plan calls for contracting out physical rehab work that is
currently performed at Oak Forest hospital. The cost of this move is
equivalent to what it would take to keep that work in house. We call upon
you to keep that physical rehab work in place at Oak Forest rather than
expend it on an outside agency. Again th~s kind of physical rehab work helps
build the outpatient enrollment for the CCHHS.
5.   The Strategic Plan lacks any conCrete direction for how to utilize the current
patient and client base as the foundation to growing the population that
would utilize the Cook County Health and Hospital System as its primary care
facility. This matter can also be easily remedied by the Hospital Board, but a
failure to address this will only deprive those who need healthcare the most.
Health Care reform will not provide health insurance to the largest group of

3Z million people nationwide until 2014. It means that we would be
abandoning the mission of the Hospital system and in the future deprive it of
an insured patient base when those patients and clients do receive basic
health insurance.

I urge you to consider these issues and call upon the Board to amend their plan
prior to full passage of the Strategic Plan. Thank you for your attention.

 Executive D/red.or
Henry Bayer

Vice President.!

Testimony of 

John D. Cameron 

Director of Political and Community Relations 

AFSCME Council 31 

before the Health & Hospitals Committee 

Cook County Board of Commissioner 

July 14, 2010 


Lori Laidlaw 

Dorinda Miller 

Yolanda Sims 

Carmin Wjllis-Goodloe 


Secretary
Sarney Franklin

Treasurer
Sam Rossi

E;cecutive

Bo~ro

Gloda Arseneau 

Darlene Sanks 

Garry CacciapagJi~ 


AFSCME Council 31 represents more than 1200 employees working in the Cook
County Health and Hospital Systems. We have long advocated for a
comprehensive system of care that employs prevention and community services.
As many of you know, we were very active in moving the ordinance that created
the. CCHHS board and mandated this planning process.

Gary Ciaccio 

Randy pominic

Robert Fanti

David Ford 

Michael Hamil 


We are very pleased thattheboard has taken it so seriously and agree with many
aspects of the plan before you today. We welcome the commitment to expand
out-patient services across the county as well as the focus on improving patient
satisfaction at county health facilities.

Richard Heitz 

Randr Hellmann 

Kev.n johnson

Gary Kroescnef 


However, there are fundamental questions raised by the plan that remain
unanswered and risk the services and health care currently being provided by the
systems~

Mace lukow 

David Morris .
Patric~

Ousley

Ralph PortWOOd 

Cary QUi<:k 


Barb Reardon 

Pat Sanders 


Edward Schwartz 

Oenise Slaugtn:er 


laverne Walkel· 

Cameron Watson 

:rrudyWilliams
RetIreE; PreSident

Virginia Yates

. Fundamentally, we believe the strategic direction for the systems must be about
expanding access to health care, not curtailing it. The proposals to close in­
patient services at Oak Forest Hospital and reduce them at Provident raise
troublirig issues of how county residents will be better served:
•   Can the relatively small budgetary savings projected to be saved by those
closures -less than 4% ofthe systems' operating expenses - justify the
disruption and restricted access for folks in the county's most medically­
underserved area?
•   . Will the already overburdened community hospitals in the Southland area
be able to provide for even more uninsured patients?
•   Does it make sense to expect those in south Cook County near Oak Forest
to travel an additional 26 miles for hospital care, a trip that often takes as
much as an hour by car and more than an hour and a halffor those reliant
on public transportation?

Tn,tsteEs
Kenneth Kleinlein 

Kati~·

Lant 


Shifting Oak Forest's rehab unit to private providers saves no money whatsoever
in this plan; it simply privatizes public work. At the same time it raises questions

Torr. Minick

10/Q9

American Federation of State~ County and ·MunidpaJ Employees:, Council :1 I

 AFSCME Council 31
page two

about access and quality, as many former Oak Forest patients ended up in substandard
nursing homes when long-telm care was cut in 2007.
Given the many uncertainties facing the county system, like the impa-ct of national health
care reforms, many other financial assumptions inherent in the plan are also open to
serious challenge.
It may well be that maintaining a level of in-patient and emergency services at Oak
Forest would both enhance access to care and bring additional dollars to the systems from
Medicaid and Medicare.
We would ask county commissioners to reject the strategic plan today and urge health
systems officials to work closely with communitj and labor stakeholders to resolve these
important outstanding questions, and then bring a reformulated proposal back to county
board in September.
We believe such an approach would better meet the vision and core goals outlined at the
beginning of the strategic plan, as well as the systems' essential mission to deliver
integrated health services with dignity and respect regardlessJofa patient's ability to pay.

######

 STATEMENT OF DOCTORS COUNCIL SEIU 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS COMMITTEE 

JULY 14, 2010 


Good Morning, Commissioners and Chairman Butler. On behalf of the Doctors Council
SEIU we urge the County Commissioners to consider the consequences of certain parts
of the Strategic Plan that is before you.
We as physicians want to treat as many patients as possible and there is a great need on
the South side and in the Southland community. We think it is a good idea to increase
outpatient access to County services, but we are gravely concerned about the decision
to close inpatient services at Oak Forest Hospital and at Provident. We believe it is
short-sighted, and that if you close the doors to the inpatients, you will be closing the
doors to many patients who would normally come to our hospitals and bring Medicaid
revenue. Many of the people who come through our Emergency Room need to be
admitted and eventually will need follow-up care. This is disrupted ifthey are shipped
up to Stroger or to some other hospital that may not want them.
As front line doctors, we know that our patients need a medical home, and when you
interrupt one part of that care, such as the inpatient services or ICU, you can lose
patients who will then go somewhere else, especially when they have the choice. Many
of these patients simply will not come back. Why not maintain a short-stay unit that will
ensure that the patient stays in the system? We-also ask, how much will it cost to ship
patients elsewhere and transfer them out? We are also concerned that the $50 million
being spent on a consulting agreement is not a good use of resources.
We would like to be involved in the decision-making concerning the Strategic Plan. We
can be partners, but we need to be consulted at every level, because we know what our
patients need.
We hope the Cook County Commissioners will raise these issues in considering this plan.
We want the best possible care for our patients and hope we can help bring that about.

 #,'1
Good Afternoon,

uJe..how-L
~r- cA·
]

vJ~:-i { ~. ~J
~~. ;A ~. l~J-

fr\J)",---~ ~

rcu() ~

~.c;(::jZ~

My name is Joyce Edmond and I am
speaking on behalf of my mother, myself
and the community. My mother is an 83
year old MDS patient, a rare blood disease,
which she was diagnosed with 7 years ago
at Oak Forest Hospital. Because of the
severity of the disease she has to be
admitted to the h.ospital every 4 weeks for a
bJood transfusion. She also has to go
through the emergency room at times for
other health issues that arise. If Oak Forest
was to close the emergency room and in­
patient care, it would be a disaster. How
could you transport an elderly woman who
could barely sit up from the south suburbs
all the way to the west side of Chicago.
Then once you get there have more than a
28 hour wait to see a doctor.

 If you would just for a moment imagine that
. you were sick and in terrible pain trying to
catch several buses to get to 5troger
hospital- how do you think you would feel?
This is not just a dilemma for my mother
but for all the people in the so.uth suburb.
who have no place to go but Oak Forest. So,
I present the question to y'ou - Is Oak Forest
in-patient care needed-Yes it is.
Thank you for your time.

 .:;PEECH FOR THE CLOSING OF PRl1 v'IDENT AND OAK FOREST SITES

</1Y

HELLO. MY NAME IS DOROTHY AHMAD. I HAVE BEEN A
REGISTERED NURSE FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS. I HAVE
WORKED AS A CRITICAL CARE NURSE IN THE CORONARY
CARE UNIT AT JOHN STROGER JR. HOSPITAL.
I AM ON THE NEGOTIATION TEAM AND SERVE AS THE
NATIONAL VICE PRESIDENT OF THE JOINT PRACTICE
COMMISIONERS FOR ONE OF THE LARGEST PROFESSIONAL
NURSES ASSOCIATION IN AMERICA, NNOC/UNN.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK ABOUT HOW
WE,THE NURSES IN THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM FEEL ABOUT
YOUR INTENTIONS TO CLOSE THE ONLY SAFETY NET
HOSPITALS FOR THE SOUTH SIDE RESIDENTS OF COOK
COUNTY. THAT IS OAK FOREST AND PROVIDENT.

AS REGISTERED NURSES WE HAVE A PROFESSIONAL
OBLIGATION AND RIGHT; TO ACT AS ADVOCATES FOR OUR
PATIENTS AND THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE TODAY,
PRESENTLY, AT JOHN STROGER HOSPITAL, THE SYSTEM IS
ALREADY STRESSED OUT FOR SEVERAL REASONS.
.
FOR EXAMPLE: IT IS THE ONLY SAFETY NET HOSPITAL THAT
THE INDIGENT AND THE UNDER-INSURED PATIENTS CAN GO
FOR HEALTH CARE,.,AND THEY COME IN LARGE NUMBERS,
ANOTHER REASON .. , NOT-FOR-PROFIT HOSPITALS RECEIVE
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN PROPERTY AND SALES TAX
BREAKS FROM THE COUNTY BECAUSE THEY MADE
PROMISES, THEN BROKE THOSE PROMISES, THEN REFERRED
THE PATIENTS TO US AND KEPT THE MONEY.
ANOTHER REASON ... WE AS NURSES SEE PATIENTS
EVERYDAY OUTSIDE OF THE COUNTY. HOSPITALS AND
CLINICS AS FAR AWAY AS LAKE AND DUPAGE COUNTIES
SEND THEIR PATIENTS TO STROGER HOSPITAL WHERE CUTS
HAVE ALREADY BEEN MADE AND THE HOSPITAL IS BARELY
OPERATING USING LIMITED RESOURCES.

 WRITTEN TESTIMONY

Dear Dr. Mason,
I would like to express my support for the continuous efforts of Mr. Foley, the CEO of
our system, to implement into action the various elements of the strategic planning. I
would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of several of those
components that may enable our system to deliver cost effective and high quality care
combined with improved customer relations. Combination of these elements will lead to
regional and national recognition that public system like ours may serve as national
model for improved care and also be competitive in the medical market place.,
The efforts of Mr. Foley to focus on customer services and relations by constructing
parking space for patients and putting as a goal improvement of the waiting time in the
various clinics might have a multiplier effects on the mindset of every member of the
system involved with patients to change and improve their personal customer relations
and see the patient as the goal and essence of our doing.
The efforts to develop a strong outpatient ambulatory presence throughout the system
are an important step in recognition of the medical challenges that the population
served by the CCHHS is facing. Chronic diseases like diabetes and its related metabolic
and cardiovascular disorders are the main public health problems that are facing the
nation at large and our system with its high risk population in particular. The efforts of
Mr. Foley and his leadership Teamto build a strong primary care base supported by
centers of excellelice with their relevant expertise are the appropriate approach to
tackle these chronic diseases. The strengthening of the current diabetes program, the'
further development of diabetes prevention program and the development of
additional diabetes center of excellence in the Provident area may serve as example of
how the chronic dise,ase model can work effectively in our public health system.
Sincerely
leon Fogelfeld, M.D
Head, Division of Endocrinology
John Stroger Hospital of Cook County
Rush University Medical Center
Endocrinology Fellowship Program Director
Phone: 312-864-0539
Fax: 312-864- 9734
1900 W.Polk (room 811)
Chicago, Il60612

 'J. Goodrn~n, MD

, .dent

16)3 Wes( C"l'!llr..-s~ PMkw

Chicai,:(I. lI!mo" 60612·383.>

Chief ExtCktivC Offica

Tel m.942.701J
JI1.942.2055
larry_Lgoodmac.@ru.h.edc

FMC

v:ww.rush.edu

RUSH;

,RSITY

CDI.!£GE Of NURSING
RUSH MEDICAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE OF HEAlTH SC1ENCfS
TliE GitADUATE CCLlEQE

In RUSH UNIVERSITY
' " MEDICAL CENTER
July 9,2010

The Honorable Jerry Butler 

Chair, Health and Hospitals Committee 

Cook County Board of Commissioners 

Room 567 

I 18 North Clark Street 

Chicago, IL 60602 

Dear Chairman Butler:

,ThisleueriswritteninsupportoftheStrategic Plan for tbeCdok County Health .
and HospitdsSystem. As you Know, in addition to the long-staridirigaftiHation
agreement between Rush Univer.;ityMedical Center andthe JOhnH.Stioger,Jt.Ho~ital
ofCook County~ I have a personal interest in and acommitmertttotheCoOk County' '
Health and f.iospitals System. During my years of service as tlie medica1 director of . ,
Cook County Hospital, I saw firsthand the tremendous commitment and skiUofso.Ill~Y
healthcare providers at Cook County Hospital. , 1.also saw. firstltandthesignificant:nee4s
ofthe patient population 'and
sigriificantproblems withii1the.system." Overthe.yew;s
the partnership between Rush and County hasted to~ antongother fui:hgstthe . ,.'
, development ofthe Ruth M. Rothstein CQRECenter which manages approximate:lyone­

third of the HIV/AIDSpatients intheChfcagoland Community., This pubHc:-private 

partnership is something all ofus at Rush are very proud to be a part oE,I washon<,:footo 

beaskeaby Senator Durbin and Todd strogerto,beon the external advisorygroupth~ , 

evaluated the Cook County Burea~ ofHealth Services andtopresentour finding$t~) the 

Cook County BoardofCom1llissiOners. It is in the context ofthe above that lwntethis 

letter ofsupport. 


the

The Strategic Plan focuseS ona vision forbeingrecognizeduasa ,progtesshrely 

evolving model for anaccessible~ integrated, patient-centeted, and fiscally responsible , 

health care system focusing on assuring high quality cateandimprovingthehealthofthe 

,residents ofCook County~" All of us in health care are taking stockofourresourcesan,d 

the needs of'the people we serve and preparing to evolve as tbose:needsare changitlgand . 

as resources are changing. Yesterday's modeIsj even whenweiJ~xecUt~,Willti()nikely 

be sufficient to solve tomolTow~sprob]ems~ This requites rethinking how serv'ices are 

distributed, how people are trained, and how People aCcess thehea:lth system itself. 

Further, as quality measurements become more and more a part ofthe accreditation 

process and more and more visible to the community at Jarge, it is critiqil that each 


 The Honorable Jerry Butler
July 9,2010
Page 2
organization develop an infrastructure that can support the collection ofdata and the
. training necessary to drive important quality improvement initiatives.
Finally, the Strategic Planreeognizes that the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System must develop partnerships~ These partnerships have the potential to effectively'
reach additional underserved communities; improve the quality ofcare across the'
continuum ofcare, and provide access to high (}li'ality tertiary care medicine to
individuals without forcing them to leave their community for preventive and primaty
care.
Rush has been proud to be a partner, and we look forward to being among the 

partner organizations that contribute to this 'vision ofhealth care for our community. 

.

.

Sincerely,

Larry J~. Goodman, MD
...
President 8ttdChiefExecutive Officer

cH

 200 WfL Jckson Blvd.
Suite 2200
Chicago, Il60606

AIDS
FOUNDATION
OF CHICAGO

Tel. 13121922-2322
Fax 13121922·2916

A force for change. A source of hope.

July9,2010
The Honorable Jerry Butler
Chairman, Health and Hospitals Committee
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
118 N. Clark Street, Room 567
Chicago, IL 60602
RE: Written Testimony in Support of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Strategic

Plan
Dear Chairman Butler:
The AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) congratulates the members of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System on completing the Vision 2015 strategic plan. AFC supports the goals of
the strategic plan. The plan proposes thoughtful solutions to long-standing problems, such as
geographic disparities in health care, the substantial unmet need for specialty care, the growing
need for culturally competent care, and the long-term finam:tatstability ofthe system.
The Health and Hospitals System is the pillar of the response to HIV/ AIDS in Chicago, Cook
County and the state of Illinois. The CORE Center alone serves over 5,000 patients a year, or just
under one-quarter of the people diagnosed with HIV/AIDS in Cook County. Many more people
with HIV receive care at other County facilities, including Cermak, Cottage Grove, Provident and
Stroger, to name just a few. The strategic plan ackriowledges this important role in HIV care.
Several provisions in the strategic plan will benefit people with HIV. First, creating
comprehensive community health centers that will provide infectious disease and other
specialty care will give people with HIV more choices to obtain care and increase the availability
of specialty care. Establishing regional outpatient centers will be a major step towards meeting
the need for specialty care in the community.
As the Health Systems Board moves forward with geographic realignments of clinics and
changes to Provident and Oak Forest, we urge them to carefully consider the impact of any
changes on HIV care providers both within and outside the County system.
Within the County system, several key units provide HIV care but don't have the same high
profile as the CORE Center. They include:
•   The Austin Health Center - CBC Initiative,which provides critical HIV primary care in Austin;
•   The South Suburban HIV/AIDS Regional Coalition (SSHARC), which offers HIV care in the
deeply underserved areas of South Suburbs at the Robbins, Woody Winston, and Cottage
Grove clinics; and

aidschicago.org IaidsconneC:lnet Iaidsrunwalk.org

 The Hon. Jerry Butler 

July 9,2010 

Page 2 


•   Provident Hospital, which offers a number of grant-funded HIV prevention programs 

targeted to at-risk popufations. 

These programs depend on the resources provided by the County facilities in which they are
located, from receptionists and clerksto office space. Any changes to the environments in
which they are housed should be made extraordinarily carefully and in consultation with HIV
providers in a variety of settings, including FQHCs and community-based organizations.
We look forward to working with the members of the Board and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to implement these recommendations.
Sincerely,

John Peller
Director of Government Relations
cc:

Mr. Bill Foley

aidscbicago.org I aidsC"onnect.net Iaidsruilwalk.olll

 July 10,20.10

Reuben J. Pettiford
Chiti Er:eculive qOicer

Hon. Commissioner Jerry Butler 

118 N. Clark Street, Suite 567 


Chicago. IL 60602 

Dear Commissioner Butler:

Board of DirectOI'S
Benjamin Garrett
President/Chairman

Jeffery Waddy

Vice President/Vice
Chairman

Marcus Swan
Vice President/Finance
Kimberly Russet!
Secretary

WendiWaddy
Assi!ilanl S'(!cretary

Nancy Mast
Treasurer
Members at Large:

.Rev. Dr. Jacqueline 

Anderson 


I am writing in support of the Cook County Health System'.s Strategic
Direction. As a community health professional who has dedicated over 25
years to ensuring that everyone has access to accessible, affordable and
quaHty hea1thcare regardless of ability to pay, I have thoroughly reviewt::d
this well conceived, cutting edge plan and find itperfectly aligned with
the principles and practices required to survive in this volatile health care
reform environment. The plan is sustainable and cost effective and will
allow one of the most prestigious public health systems in the country to
thrive well into the future,

Today, strategic partnerships are more crucial than ever. We must find 

new and creative ways to collaborate if we are to truly reform the health 

ofour C9untry. As such, I was very pleased to team that CCHHS will be 

. working more closely \\-'ith the Federally Qualified Health Centers to
extend the provision of primary care services throug!toutCook County,
As you know, we treat the same patient population and by partnering we
create a system of care that v,111 enhance the patient care experience
by reducing costly duplication of services such as labs) x-rays etc. and by
leveraging our collective resources so that CCfIHS can support the
projected 900,000 pati.eut visits by 20J 5.

can

This is an exciting time to be in health care and I iook forward to working
ciosely with CCHHS to improve the health status of the residents of Cook

Daryl Crudup 

Terry McAlister 


County vislon.

.

Sincerely•.

31 \'Vest 155th Street· HalVey. Illinois 60426 •Phone (708) 596-5117' Fax {708} 339~3583

The mission of Family Christian Health Center is to provide eleellent health care to the community
that communicates in word and deed the love and Gospel of Jesus Christ

 Richard M. Jaffee
Chairman

1653 West Omg=s Parkway
OUcago. IIIinoo 60612-3833

Tel 312.942.6950
www.rush.edu

RUSH UNIVERSITY
(X)U.EGE Of NURSING
RUSH MEDICAL COI.lEOE
(X)U.EGE OF HEALTH SCIENCES

~

RUSH UNIVERSITY
' " MEDICAL CENTER

THE GRADUATE CCKl£GE

July 12, 2010

The Honorable Jerry Butler
Chair, Health and Hospitals Committee
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Room 567, 118 North Clark Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Dear Chairman Butler:
SUbject: Letter in Support of Cook County Bureau ofHealth Strategic Plan
You will recall we met when I was a member ofLany Goodman's blue ribbon
advisory committee. The committee was formed at the request of Sen. Durbin and
was charged with reviewing the Cook County Bureau ofHealth.. At that time, we
met with a number ofthe County Commissioners. I was particularly impressed
with the meeting we had with you. It was obvious that you had a strong and very
sincere interest in not only preserving the County's health system, but doing all
that could be done to improve the delivery ofhealth services to itS patients and the
community that it serves.

I believe that much progress has been made since our initial meeting. The
independent advisory board, the hiring ofBill Fol~y and now the development of a
strategic plan for the County system are all important steps along the way to the
strengthening ofthe system that we all desire.

 ·I

I am writing this letter in my position as Chairman of the Board ofTrustees of
Rush University Medical Center. As you know and as Larry Goodman
emphasized in his July 9 letter, the partnership between Rush and County is long,
deep and imporUwt in serving our West Side community. The liD:kages between
the two hospitals and their staffs are very important for a variety ofreasoIiS.
Consequently, the strength and health ofthe Stroger Hospital and the other
components of the County Bureau ofHealth are ofsignificant importance, not only
to the city but to Rush as an institution.

I know from my more than 20 years experience on the Rush board and more than
50 years of business experience that three major elements are absolutely necessary

to put an organization in a position to be successful. Those are the right strategy,
careful implementation ofthat strategy and development of a management team to
coordinate and implement the strategy.
While I have not been involved with any detail on the development ofthe strategic.
plan that the County Board is being asked to approve, I am assured by Larry that it
has been thoughtfully developed and has most ofthe elements that I cOnsider
necessary to insure a successful implementation. I therefore strongly urge you and
your fellow commissioners to approve the strategic plan when it comes before you
in the coming days. Thank you for your attention.

cor~ Y'ft:!
Richard M. Jaffee
RM.J:ema

 ALIVIO MEDICAL CENTER
All Active Presellce for a Strong Community
Carmen Velasquez
8:iJC(Jt.\'<) Dirt'C/()(

July 13,2010

OFFICERS
Teresa Fraga
Presldenf

Pi:sell Neiglloors  
COmmuoi~1

Cuuneil

Tf(!'1sUfer

Esther Corpuz

The Honorable Commissioner Jell)' Butler
Chailman, Cook County Health & Hospitals System Committee
118 N. Clark Street, Suite 567
Chicago, IL 60602

V;'C6' Pr",-;aellt

M3clJeal!f()$pital
8usiness oe'i~!optl121l!

Dear Commissioner Butler:

O;rector
Wayne Muldrow  
Tteasuler

tlorthem frust Cumpan,.
Seo'or Attomc'l
Mary lebold, Ed,D., fiN

secretary

Alivio Medical Center, a Federally Qualified Community Health Center fully supports the
five-year strategic plan being presented to you. Alivio's model ofcare is comprehensive
primary care, with a focus on prevention. Alivio is the medical home to over 25,000
patients who are Latino, immigrant, predominantly Mexican and undocumented.

Ch'cago B~ingual

llursc Coosornum
fr.IJcutiVe Ofrecto(  

MEMBESlS

Vincent Allocco, Ph,D.
ElNaJor
Execulf..e Director

Claudia Caballero
COmmunity ~,lembe(

We are black, brown, white and vulnerable; many ofus are poor, the immigrant; the
undocumented; the homeless. We are fragile because we have been hit at the core of our
most inner being. For many, not only do we not have a face, we do not have a name, we
have no identity and many take the position that healthcare is not a basic human right.
Yours is the responsibility to support a strategic plan that will make a difference. The
system that you oversee is considered a safety-net that delivers the OO8t possible care for
the vulnerable that is patient-centered and accessible to all! 


aiga Lozano
OIOZCO Cornmuni~1 ArAldemy

S81iC flcpresoolaUve 

Giacomo Mancuso

Consullimt

Peter Martlflex
UIC
Cooler for SChool leadecs/lip
OlrectOf

MartlnaMufioz
Mu;eres Oeck!,das

Sao Mfguel SChcols
Alelandra
Perez-Tamayo, M,O., FACS
Mer,~ Hospital and  
1.~Gd!cal Cenler 

Surgtlly Oepa,lmeill Chail 


Blanca E, Rabiels
Cfisto fle'J Jesuit Higll SChool
AlifMSions Oirect(Jr

lal'«l Rodriguez 

Really 123, Inc.
Socorro Vel'azquez

I).WlK Pdt!< Sed-ilr

rlancy IliliafratlC3
f~a~cnal Museum
of 1,1~:4can As!
EdO'Calion Progrdms m-eclor

Today, the Cook County Board will make one of its most important decisions impacting
the daily lives ofeach person living in Cook County, A1ivio Medical Center sees the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System as a safetyMnet because of its provision ofspecialty
care.
Specialty care is the most challenging aspect of medical care for Alivio's patients. Today,
the Alivio Cook County relationship permits Alivio patients both pediatric and adult to
access care through the IRIS System. Cook County Hospital is the only safety-net hospital
in the city which is providing selvices to patients of Cook County without l'eselvation.
Efforts by the Cook County Health and Hospitals System are valued by all of us who strive
to provide quality healthcare to our communities,
Sincerely, 


~M;
Calmen vetasq"t"
Founder and Executive Director
Chicago, lllinojs
2355 South Western Avenue
966 West 21st Street
2400 South Marshall Boulevard
3120 South Kostner Avenue

Cicero, lllinois

4842 West Cermak: Road

www.a1iviomedicalcenter.org
(312) 829-6303 Phone
(312) 829-6375 Fax

 ...John H. Stroger, ...Jr. Hospital of Cook County _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
1900 W. Polk Street, 5th Floor, Oticago, IIlinQis 60612
312..864.6000- roD 312.864.0100

July 14,2010

To Cook County Health System Board

RE: Strategic Plan

I wanted to express my support for the recently presented strategic plan for
the transformation of the Cook County Health System. I believe as a
practicing clinician and the Program Director of the Stroger Obstetrics and
Gynecology Residency, this plan will not only vastly improve access and
delivery of healthcare, but also will significantly improve educating our
young and gifted graduate physicians. I support making our health system
the bestpublic system in the nation ...our patients deserve it!

Sincerely,

~

Fidel Abrego, MD, MBA
Residency Program Director
John H. Stroger Jr., Hospital of Cook County
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

~

*

Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Prinled OIl Recycled Popcr

 