The Honorable,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH HOSPITALS

January 22, 2008

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Daley,
Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims,

Steele and Suffredin (16)

Commissioner Beavers (1)

a.

David Small, Chief Operating Officer Bureau of Health Services; Andrew Kane,
Healthcare Consultant Kane Consulting; Russell J. Pederson, Senior Consultant -

Sellers Feinberg

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Health Hospitals of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Tuesday, January 22, 2008 at the hour of 2:00 PM in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

291516

COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Todd H. Stroger,
President, Forrest Clavpool, Elizabeth Gorman, and Larrv Suffredin. Cook
County Board of Commissioners; Co-Sponsored by William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler,
John P. Daley, Gregg Goslin, Roberto Maldonado, Joseph Mario Moreno, Joan
Patricia Murphy and Deborah Sims, County Commissioners.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38
Health and Human Services, Article IV, Sections 38-56 through 38-63 are hereby

enacted as follows:

Sec. 38-56. Definitions.

Sec. 38-57. Assessment.

Sec. 38-58. Exemptions.

Sec. 38-59. Payment of assessment; penalty.
Sec. 38-60. Notice.

Sec. 38-61. Disposition of proceeds.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 2

Sec. 38-62. Applicability.
Sec. 38-63. Hospital access preservation payments.

Effective Date:This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage.
*Referred to the Committee on Health Hospitals on 1/9/08.

Chairman Butler asked Mr. David Small, Chief Operating Officer, Bureau of Health Services to address
the Commissioners.

Mr. Small gave the CommissiOners a brief overview regarding the State Fiscal Year 2008
Intergovernmental Transfer for Supplemental Payments. Mr. Small provided the Commissioners with a
chart that Speaks to how the Intergovernmental Transfer for Supplemental Payments works. (See

attachment #1 

Further, Mr. Small stated that in terms of the existing Illinois Plan it is due to Sunset, it will expire on
June 30, 2008, which means that on July 1, 2008 a new plan needs to be in place or the Federal
matching dollars that come in to help fund the Medicaid Program and the State will not be available.
Mr. Small also stated that Cook County receives zero dollars under the current Illinois plan which is due
to sunset. Under the proposed IHA Model Cook County also would receive zero dollars. However,
under the proposed County Ordinance Safety Net Alternative Model, the County is looking at a split to
be negotiated with the State of approximately $150 million or perhaps as much as $75 million which still
needs to be negotiated.

In conclusion Mr. Small stated it is incredibly critical from a timing perspective that a plan be put
forward, this is the only plan at this point and time that is on the table that has stated bene?ts for Cook
County and for the Bureau of Health Services. Under the Proposed Ordinance the dollars that would
be assessed on the hospitals located in Cook County would be collected by the County and put into a
trust fund and fonNarded to the State so that the State remains in control in terms of drawing down the
matching funds and distributing those dollars according to State Plan, but Cook County would not be in

control of those dollars.

Commissioner Daley moved approval of Communication No. 291516, seconded by
Commissioner Suffredin. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays

being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE
COMMUNICATION NO. 291516

Yeas: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslln, Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Daley,
Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin (15)

Nay: Commissioner Peraica (1)

Present: None (0)

Absent: Commissioner Beavers (1)

The motion to approve CARRIED.

HEALTH a HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE3

Chairman Butler asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers.

1) Sister Shiela Lyne President and Chief Executive Of?cer, Mercy Hospital and Medical Center
2) Ken Robbins President, Hospital Association

3) Kevin Scanlan President and CEO, Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council

4) Greg Kelley Secretary/Treasurer, SEIU Local 20

5) Dennis Ryan Vice President, Holy Cross Hospital

Chairman Butler requested that the additional documentation received from public speakers and which
was distributed to the Commissioners be made part of the record. (Attachment 

Following is the Cook County Hospital Assessment Ordinance
(Communication No. 291516), as approved:

COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Todd H. Stroger, President, Forrest Clavpool, Elizabeth "Liz_?
Gorman, and Larry Suffredin. Cook County Board of Commissioners; Co?Sponsored by William M.
Beavers, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Gregg Goslin, Roberto Maldonado Joseph Mario Moreno, Joan
Patricia Murphy and Deborah Sims, County Commissioners.

 

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY HOSPITAL ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article IV, Sections 38-56 through 38-63 are hereby enacted as follows:

Sec. 38-56. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings.
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Case Mix Index means, for any given hospital, the quotient that is the result of dividing the sum
0f DRG weights for all Medicaid admissions in State fiscal year 2005 by the sum of Medicaid
admissions in State fiscal year 2005. This calculation excludes admissions for rehabilitation care,
care and transplants.

CMS means the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services.

DHFS means the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services.

DPH means the Illinois Department of Public Health.

Fund means the County Provider Trust Fund

Hospital means an institution, place, building, or agency located in Cook County that is subject

to licensure by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Hospital Licensing Act, whether public
or private and whether organized for pro?t or not-for-pro?t.

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 4

Hospital Provider means a person licensed by the Illinois Department of Public Health to
conduct, operate, or maintain a hospital, regardless of whether the person is a Medicaid provider. For
purposes of this paragraph, ?person" means any political subdivision of the State, municipal
corporation, individual,-firm, partnership, corporation, company, limited liability company, association,
joint stock association, or trust, or receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of the court.

Medicaid Percentage means the State ?scal year 2005 Medicaid inpatient utilization rate.

Occupied Bed Days means the sum of the number of days that each bed was occupied by a
patient for all beds during calendar year 2005. Occupied bed days shall be computed separately for
each hospital operated or maintained by a hospital provider. The 2005 Annual Survey of Hospitals
conducted by the Department of Public Health will be the source data for Occupied bed days.

Revenue Department means the Cook County Department of Revenue.

Urban Area means an area located within a metropolitan statistical area, as de?ned by the US.
Office of Management and Budget in OMB Bulletin 04-03, dated February 18, 2004, with a city with a
population in excess of 50,000 or a total population in excess of 100,000.

Sec. 38-57. Assessment.

Subject to Sections 38-58 (Exemptions) and 38-62 (Applicability), Beginning July 1, 2008, an
annual assessment is imposed on each Hospital Provider in Cook County in an amount equal to the
Hospital?s occupied bed days multiplied by $184.72.

The Revenue Department shall use the number of occupied bed days as reported by each
hospital on the 2005 Annual Survey of Hospitals conducted by the DPH to calculate the Hospital?s
annual assessment. If there are data errors in the reported sum of a hospital?s occupied bed days as
determined by the Revenue Department, then the County may obtain the sum of occupied bed days
from any source available, including, but not limited to, records maintained by the Hospital Provider,
which may be inspected at all times during business hours of the day by the County or its duly
authorized, agents and employees.

Sec. 38-58. Exemptions.

A Hospital Provider that is owned or operated by the State or by an instrumentality of a
unit of government within the State is exempt from the assessment imposed by Section 38-
57(Assessment).

A Hospital Provider whose Hospital does not charge for its services is exempt from the
assessment imposed by Section 38-57 (Assessment).

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 5

Sec. 38-59. Payment of assessment; penalty

Beginning July 1, 2008, the annual assessment imposed by Section 38?57 (Assessment)
shall be due and payable in installments, each equaling one-twelfth of the assessment for the
year, on the third County business day of each month. No installment payment of an assessment
imposed by Section 38-57 (Assessment) shall be due and payable, however, until after: the
Revenue Department receives written notice from the DHFS that the payment methodologies to
Hospitals listed under Section 38-63 (Hospital access maintenance payments) have been approved by
the CMS and the waiver under 42 CFR 433.68 for the assessment imposed by Section 38?57
(Assessment), if necessary, has been granted by the and (ii) payments listed under Section 38-
63 (Hospital access preservation payments) have been made to the Hospital on the first day of each
month that is both a County business day and a State business day.

Upon noti?cation of approval of the payment methodologies listed under Section 38-63 (Hospital
access preservation payments) and the waiver under 42 CFR 433.68 for the assessment imposed by
Section 38-57 (Assessment), if necessary, has been granted by the all installments
othenrvise due under Section 38-57 (Assessment) prior to the date of noti?cation shall be due and
payable to the Revenue Department upon written direction from the County and receipt of the payment
methodologies listed under Section 38-63 (Hospital access preservation payments).

The Revenue Department is authorized to establish delayed payment schedules for
Hospital Providers that are unable to make installment payments when due under this Section due to 
?nancial dif?culties, as determined by the Revenue Department.

If a Hospital Provider fails to pay the full amount of an installment when due, there shall,
unless waived by the Revenue Department for reasonable cause, be added to the assessment
imposed in Section 38-57 (Assessment) a penalty equal to 5% of the amount of the installment not paid
on or before the due date plus 5% of the portion thereof remaining unpaid on the last day of each 30-
day period thereafter.

Section 38-60. Notice.

The Revenue Department shall send an annual notice of assessment to every Hospital
Provider subject to assessment under this Ordinance. The initial notice of assessment shall notify the
Hospital of its assessment and shall be sent after receipt by the DHFS of notification from the CMS that
the payment methodologies listed under Section 38?63 (Hospital access preservation payments) and, if
necessary, the waiver granted under 42 CFR 433.68 have been approved. The notice shall be on a
form prepared by the Revenue Department and shall state the following:

(1) The name of the Hospital Provider.

(2) The address of the Hospital Provider's principal place of business from which the
provider engages in the occupation of hospital provider in this County, and the
name and address of each hospital operated, conducted, or maintained by the

provider in this County.

(3) The occupied bed days, the annual amount of the assessment imposed under
Section 38-57 (Assessment) and the amount of each installment to be
paid.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 6

(4) Other reasonable information as determined by the Revenue Department.

If a Hospital Provider conducts, operates or maintains more than one Hospital licensed
by the DPH, the provider shall pay the assessment for each Hospital separately.

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Ordinance, in the case of a person or entity
that ceases to conduct, operate, or maintain a hospital in respect of which the person is subject to
assessment under this Ordinance as a Hospital Provider, the assessment for the year in which the
cessation occurs shall be adjusted by multiplying the assessment computed in under Section 38-57
(Assessment) by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the year during which the
provider conducts, operates, or maintains the hospital and the denominator of which is 365.
Immediately upon ceasing to conduct, operate, or maintain a Hospital, the person or entity shall pay the
assessment for the year as so adjusted (to the extent not previously paid).

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Ordinance, a Hospital Provider who
commences conducting, operating or maintaining a Hospital, upon notice by the Revenue Department
shall pay the assessment computed under Section 38-57 (Assessment) and subsection in
installments on the due dates occurring after the due dates of the initial notice.

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Ordinance, in the case of a Hospital Provider
that did not conduct, operate, or maintain a Hospital throughout calendar year 2005, the assesSment for
that Hospital Provider shall be computed on the basis of hypothetical occupied bed days for the full
calendar year as determined by the Revenue Department.

The Revenue Department shall provide a Hospital Provider a reasonable opportunity to
request a clari?cation or correction of any clerical or computational errors contained in the calculation of
its assessment.

Section 38-61. Disposition of proceeds.

On a basis, the Revenue Department shall deposit all monies received from Hospital
Providers under this Ordinance into the County Provider Trust Fund to be distributed to Hospitals,
including Hospitals that may be owned by the State or owned by an instrumentality of a unit of
government within the State. Cook County through its Revenue and Finance Department shall
negotiate an administrative reimbursement fee with the State to be paid to the County which shall be
based on the administrative costs to implement the Assessment in addition to the Hospital access
preservation payments.

Section 38-62. Applicability.

The assessment imposed by Section 38-57 (Assessment) shall not take effect or shall
cease to be imposed if the DHFS makes changes in 89 Illinois Administrative Code that reduce
payments made to Hospital Providers following CMS approval of these methodologies.

The assessment imposed by Section 38-57 (Assessment) shall not take effect or shall
cease to be imposed if the assessment is determined to be an impermissible assessment by the CMS.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 7

Section 38-63. Hospital access preservation payments.

The assessment imposed in Section 38-57 (Assessment) shall not be imposed until and unless
the DHFS gains federal approval and, subject to State appropriations, begins making payments for the
following rate methodologies which are in addition to payments made by DHFS under existing
reimbursement policies.

To preserve access to hospital services, the DHFS shall make payments to hospitals as
set forth in this Section, except for hospitals described in Section 38-58 for subsections through 
These payments shall be made on a basis beginning July 1, 2008 except where explicitly
stated otherwise in this Section.

. Obstetrical care adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each Cook County hospital
that in State ?scal year 2005 had a Medicaid inpatient utilization rate in excess of 35% and that in that
same year provided in excess of 3,750 Medicaid obstetrical days of care, an amount equal to $1,145
multiplied by each Medicaid obstetrical day of care provided by the hospital in State fiscal year 2005.

(0) Medicaid high volume adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each general, acute
care hospital with a case mix index greater than .5, and that provided more Medicaid days of care in
State ?scal year 2005 than in State fiscal year 2003 and that in State ?scal year 2005 provided more
than? 12,000 Medicaid inpatient days of care and that is located in the county of Cook or that in State
?scal year 2005 provided more than 28,000 Medicaid inpatient days of care (including crossover days),
an amount equal to $650 multiplied by each Medicaid day of care provided by the hospital in State
?scal year 2005. Each hospital qualifying for this payment will also be paid by the DHFS an additional
amount equal to $2,100 for each Medicaid inpatient day of care in excess of 27,000 days provided in
State fiscal year 2005.

Medicaid services expansion payments. The DHFS shall pay each Illinois general, acute
care hOSpital with a case mix index greater than .7 that also experienced at least a 20% increase in its
Medicaid inpatient utilization rate between State fiscal year 2005 and State fiscal year 2006 or each
general, acute care hospital with a case mix index greater than .65 that also experienced at least a 35%
increase in its Medicaid inpatient utilization rate between State fiscal year 2005 and State ?scal year
2006, an amount equal to $1,650 multiplied by each Medicaid day of care provided by the hospital in
State fiscal year 2005. The DHFS will also pay each general, acute care hospital with a case mix index
greater than .775 that also experienced at least a 25% increase in its Medicaid inpatient utilization rate
between State fiscal year 2004 and State fiscal year 2006 an amount equal to $1,030 multiplied by
each Medicaid day of care provided by the hospital in State ?scal year 2005.

High Volume DSH payments. The DHFS shall pay each hospital that in State fiscal year
2005 provided more than 30,000 Medicaid inpatient days of care and that also had an MIUR in excess
of 80%, an amount equal to $360 multiplied by each Medicaid day of care provided by the hospital in
State fiscal year 2005.

services preservation payments.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 8

(1) The DHFS shall pay each Illinois hospital that provided in excess of
4,000 Medicaid inpatient days in State fiscal year 2005 and each general acute
care hospital with a distinct part unit that provided over 4,000
Medicaid inpatient days in State fiscal year 2005 an amount equal to
$235 multiplied by the number of Medicaid inpatient day of care
provided in State fiscal year 2005.

(2) For each hospital qualifying under (1) that is paid a per diem rate for Medicaid
inpatient services that, as of July 1, 2007, was less than $363.77 and
that provided in excess of 16,000 Medicaid inpatient days in State
fiscal year 2005, the DHFS will pay an amount equal to $480 multiplied by the
number of Medicaid inpatient days of care provided in State ?scal
year2005.

(9) Trauma center adjustment payments.

(1) The DHFS shall pay an additional payment to each general acute care hospital
. that as of January 1, 2005, was designated as a Level II trauma center and that
had a case mix index in excess of 1.0. The payment shall equal $1,175
multiplied by the number of Medicaid inpatient days provided in State ?scal year

2005.

(2) The DHFS shall pay an additional payment to each children?s hOSpital that, as of
January 1, 2005, was designated a Level I pediatric trauma center and that had a
case mix index in excess of 2.0. The payment shall equal $430 multiplied by the
number of Illinois Medicaid inpatient days provided in State fiscal year 2005.

Acuity-based adjustment payments.

(1) The DHFS shall pay each general acute care hospital having a case mix index in
excess of 1.0 and that provided in excess of 3,400 Medicaid inpatient days in
State ?scal year 2005, an amount equal to $525 multiplied by the number of
Illinois Medicaid inpatient days provided in State ?scal year 2005.

(2) The DHFS shall pay each general acute care hospital having a case mix index in
excess of .8, that was deemed a disproportionate hospital by the DHFS in State
fiscal year 2005, and that provided in excess of 10,000 Medicaid inpatient days in
State fiscal year 2005, an amount equal to $820 multiplied by the number of
Illinois Medicaid inpatient days provided in State ?scal year 2005.

(3) The DHFS shall pay each general acute care hospital having a case mix index in
excess of .75 and that provided in excess of 22,000 Medicaid inpatient days in
State ?scal year 2005, an amount equal to $175 multiplied by the number of
Illinois Medicaid inpatient days provided in State fiscal year 2005.

Crossover adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each general, acute care hospital
having a case mix index in excess of .725 and, for State fiscal year 2005, had a ratio of crossover days
to total Medicaid days in excess of 50%, an amount equal to $2,260 multiplied by the number of Illinois
Medicaid inpatient days provided in State fiscal year 2005.

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 9

Rural CHAP adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each hospital that qualifies for
Rural Critical Hospital Adjustment Payments and that had a Medicaid obstetrical rate that was at least
one-half standard deviation above the mean Medicaid obstetrical rate during the CHAP base period an
amount equal to the annual Rural Critical Hospital Adjustment Payment paid to these qualifying
hospitals.

Indigent Care DSH payments. The DHFS shall pay each qualifying hospital,
reimbursement to defray costs associated with the provision of care to the uninsured indigent.

(I) High volume, high Medicaid outpatient payments. The DHFS shall pay each hospital
that provided in excess of 23,000 Medicaid ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal year
2005 that also had a Medicaid percentage in excess of 50% or a general, acute care disproportionate
share hospital, an amount equal to $410 multiplied by the number of Medicaid ambulatory procedure
listing services provided in State ?scal year 2005. Additionally, any hospital eligible to receive these
High volume, high Medicaid payments that provided in excess of 45,000 Medicaid ambulatory
procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005 will receive an add-on payment equal to $60
multiplied by the number of Medicaid ambulatory procedure listing services provided in State fiscal year
2005 in excess of 45,000.

Emergency care adjustment payments

(1) The DHFS shall pay each Illinois hospital that provided in excess of 4,000
Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005,
had a Medicaid percentage in excess of 37% and whose Medicaid Emergency
level one ambulatory procedure listing services in State ?scal year 2005
comprised more than 66.66% of its overall Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory
procedure listing services in State ?scal year 2005, an amount equal to $470
multiplied by the number of Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory procedure listing
services provided in State ?scal year 2005.

(2) The DHFS shall pay each Illinois hospital that provided in excess of 7,700
Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005,
had a Medicaid percentage in excess of 24.5%, experienced Medicaid Group 3
ambulatory. procedure listing services growth in excess of 23% between State
?scal year 2003 and State fiscal year 2005 and whose Medicaid Emergency level
one ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005 comprised
more than 33% of its overall Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory procedure listing
services in State fiscal year 2005, an amount equal to $375 multiplied by the
number of Medicaid Group 3 ambulatory procedure listing services provided in
State fiscal year 2005.

Complexity of care outpatient adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each Illinois
hospital located in an urban area that provided in excess of 2,500 Medicaid Group 2 ambulatory
procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005, experienced Medicaid Group 2 ambulatory
procedure listing services growth in excess of 33% between State fiscal year 2003 and State ?scal year
2005 and whose Medicaid group 2(a) ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal year 2005
comprised more than 35% of its overall Medicaid Group 2 ambulatory procedure listing services in
State ?scal year 2005, an amount equal to $660 multiplied by the number of Medicaid Group 2
ambulatory procedure listing services provided in State fiscal year 2005.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 10

Outpatient access preservation payments. The DHFS shall pay each Cook County
hospital that experienced Medicaid ambulatory procedure listing services growth in excess of 15%
between State fiscal year 2003 and State fiscal year 2005, an amount equal to $1,975 multiplied by the
percentage growth in Medicaid ambulatory procedure listing services provided between State ?scal
year 2003 and State fiscal year 2005 multiplied by the number of Medicaid ambulatory procedure listing
services provided in State fiscal year 2005.

Rehabilitation outpatient adjustment payments. The DHFS shall pay each hospital that
provided more than 5,000 Medicaid Group 6(a) ambulatory procedure listing services in State fiscal
year 2005, an amount equal to $990 multiplied by the number of Medicaid Group 6(a) ambulatory
procedure listing services provided in State ?scal year 2005.

Comprehensive outpatient base adjustment payments. Beginning with dates of service
on or after April 15, 2008, the DHFS shall pay an add-on of $55.50 to all Medicaid ambulatory
procedure listing services, with the exception of Group 5 services, paid by the DHFS.

The DHFS shall pay John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County an amount equal to
$1,333 multiplied by each Medicaid day of care provided by the hospital in State ?scal year 2005.

For purposes of this Section, the terms "Medicaid days", ?ambulatory procedure listing
services", and ?ambulatory procedure listing payments" do not include any days, charges, or services
for which Medicare was liable for payment, except where explicitly stated otherwise in this Section.

Effective DatezThis Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage.

291523 RESOLUTION REQUIRING THE COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
AND ITS AFFILIATES CONTINUE TO INCLUDE ACCOUNT, GRADE, STEP,
BUDGET AND POSITION IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION AS WELL AS ADD
SALARY INFORMATION ON ALL REQUESTS TO APPROVE MEDICAL STAFF
APPOINTMENTS, REAPPOINTMENTS, MEDICAL STATUS CHANGES AND MID-
LEVEL PRACTITIONER APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS FOR
APPOINTEES WHO ARE ALSO EMPLOYEES OF THE COUNTY (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Robert B. Steele,
County Commissioner.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approves medical staff
appointments, reappointments, medical staff status changes and mid-level practitioner
appointments and reappointments for the hospitals in the Cook County Bureau of
Health Services; and

WHEREAS, for informational purposes the Cook County Board of Commissioners
receives account, grade, step, budget and position identification information when
approving medical staff appointments, reappointments, medical staff status changes
and mid-level practitioner appointments and reappointments for appointees who are
also employees of the County; and

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 22, 2008
PAGE 11

WHEREAS, in addition to receiving account, grade, step, budget and position
identification information on requests to approve medical staff appointments,
reappointments, medical staff status changes and mid-level practitioner appointments
and reappointments for appointees who are also employees of the County, specific
salary information shall also be included for informational purposes only.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the hospitals in the Cook County
Bureau of Health Services continue to include account, grade, step, budget and
position identification information as well as add salary information on all requests to
approve medical staff appointments, reappointments, medical status changes and
mid-level practitioner appointments and reappointments for appointees who are also
employees of the County.

*Referred to the Committee on Health Hospitals on 1I9I08.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved the approval of
Communication No. 291523. The motion carried.

Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Daley. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 291516 Approved
Communication Number 291523 Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committ on Health Hospitals

  
 
 

 

Jerry ButIIBLICHairman

76 M,

Ma?gew B. DeLeon, Sectet?ry

 

The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

Attachment #1

STATE FISCAL YEAR 2008 INTERGOVERNMENTAL TRANSFER
FOR SUPPLEMENTAL PAYMENTS

 

 

Cook County
DepoSit-io
Medicaid
Trust Fund


 

 

 

 


Retumed to

Cook County-

 

 



 

"Fe'deml
Medicaid
Match


 

 

 

Original Returned to Cook County

 


- 

 

 

 

 

    

 

cook Count-y
Medicaid

Trust; Fund -



  

  

 

 

 

 

 








'A?t?t 

 

RCY

 

 

 

MERCY HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER
2525 SOUTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60616-2477

phone 312.567.2000

January 22, 2008

Cook County Board

Health Hospitals Committee
118 N. Clark Street, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Commissioners:

Mercy Hospital and Medical Center is a member of the Association of Safety-Net Community
Hospitals. The Association of Safety-Net Community Hospitals was organized to increase the
understanding by government entities and elected of?cials of the speci?c mission and needs of
Safety-Net community hospitals in Illinois. Our mission is critical because, with very limited
exceptions, we serve only the neediest members of society.

As safety net hospitals, we are among the ?rst choice for Chicago?s poor and uninsured sick. We
provide free and low-cost health care to thousands across the area. And clearly by de?nition we
serve a ?disproportionate? share of the state?s Medicaid clients.

But being able to serve our patients has become a challenge in recent years as we face daunting
?nancial pressures from rising costs, signi?cant charity care, and the need to keep pace with
technology.

Our state government has consistently recognized over the past decade there are no longer any
signi?cant savings to be found among the disproportionate. The state's Medicaid funding plan is
our lifeline and helps keep us alive.

The Cook County ordinance will bring signi?cant funds to the hospitals that provide the 
care to the poor and uninsured. We support the state and county?s efforts to help us help the
many individuals and families that so desperately need our services. We also support the
testimony of Sister Sheila Lyne, who will be testifying today on behalf of the Association of
Safety?Net Community Hospitals.

The safety net hospitals have been committed to working with the State Government to ?nd
solutions to the Medicaid problems in Illinois. To that end we would like to speci?cally thank
Senator Schoenberg for his excellent support on the creation of the past two hospital
assessments.

We see the plan as an investment for our future and for the communities we serve. We look
forward to working with Cook County to ensure we can continue to provide quality health care

to the County?s most underserved populations.

We also wish to thank the members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Stroger
Administration, the Cook County Bureau of Health Services and all staff for your collaboration

and assistance to date.
Sincerely,


Sister Sh?la Lyne, CW

resident and Chief Executive Of?cer

E. ii 
. 



HOSPITAL

Administration
January 22, 2008

Cook County Board

Health Hospitals Committee
118 N. Clark Street, 5?h Floor
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Commissioners:

My facility, Norwegian American Hospital, is a member of the Association of Safety-Net
Community Hospitals. The Association of Safety-Net Community Hospitals was organized to
increase the understanding by government entities and elected officials of the specific mission
and needs of Safety-Net community hospitals in Illinois. Our mission is critical because, with
very limited exceptions, we serve only the neediest members of society.

As safety net hospitals, we are among the first choice for Chicago?s poor and uninsured sick. We
provide free and low-cost health care to thousands across the area. And clearly by definition we
serve a ?disproportionate? share of the state?s Medicaid clients.

But being able to serve our patients has become a challenge in recent years as we face daunting
financial pressures from rising costs, significant charity care, and the need to keep pace with

technology.

Our state government has consistently recognized over the past decade there are no longer any
significant savings to be found among the disproportionate. The state's Medicaid funding plan is

our lifeline and helps keep us alive.

The Cook County ordinance will bring significant funds to the hospitals that provide the m_os_t
care to the poOr and uninsured. We support the state and county?s efforts to help us help the
many individuals and families that so desperately need our services. We also support the
testimony of Sister Sheila Lyne, who will be testifying today on behalf of the Association of
Safety-Net Community Hospitals.

The safety net hospitals have been committed to working with the State Government to find
solutions to the Medicaid problems in Illinois. To that end we would like to specifically thank
Senator Schoenberg for his excellent support on the creation of the past two hospital

assessments.

We see the plan as an investment for our future and for the communities we serve. We look
forward to working with Cook County to ensure we can continue to provide quality health care
to the County?s most underserved populations.

We also wish to thank the members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Stroger
Administration, the Cook County Bureau of Health Services and all staff for your collaboration

and assistance to date.

Sincerely,

U, Q2
Michael]. 0? rady,Jr.
President

Swedish Covenant Hospital

TECHNOLOGY CHANGES. COMPASSION DOES 

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

January 22, 2008

Cook County Board

Health Hospitals Committee
118 N. Clark Street, Floor
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Commissioners:

My facility, Swedish Covenant Hospital, is a member of the Association of Safety-Net
Community Hospitals. The Association of Safety?Net Community Hospitals was organized to
increase the understanding by government entities and elected of?cials of the speci?c mission
and needs of Safety?Net community hospitals in Illinois. Our mission is critical because, with
very limited exceptions, we serve only the neediest members of society.

As safety net hospitals, we are among the ?rst choice for Chicago?s poor and uninsured sick. We
provide free and low?cost health care to thousands across the area. And clearly by de?nition we
serve a ?disproportionate? share of the state?s Medicaid clients.

But being able to serve our patients has become a challenge in recent years as we face daunting
?nancial pressures from rising costs, signi?cant charity care, and the need to keep pace with

technology.

Our state government has consistently recognized over the past decade there are no longer any
signi?cant savings to be found among the disproportionate. The state?s Medicaid funding plan is

our lifeline and helps keep us alive.

The Cook County ordinance will bring signi?cant funds to the hospitals that provide the @131
care to the poor and uninsured. We support the state and county?s efforts to help us help the
many individuals and families that so desperately need our services. We also support the
testimony of Sister Sheila Lyne, who will be testifying today on behalf of the Association of

Safety-Net Community Hospitals.

The safety net hospitals have been committed to working with the State Government to ?nd
solutions to the Medicaid problems in Illinois. To that end we would like to speci?cally thank
Senator Schoenberg for his excellent support on the creation of the past two hospital

assessments.

5145? North California Avenue I Chicago, Illinois I 50625 773.878.5200 I TTY 7733013044 

We see the plan as an investment for our future and for the communities we serve. We look
forward to werking with Cook County to ensure we can continue to provide quality health care

to the County?s most underserved populations.

We also wish to thank the members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Stroger
Administration, the Cook County Bureau of Health Services and all staff for your collaboration

and assistance to date.
Sincerely,



Mark Newton
President/CEO

5T 

EXECUTIVE OFFICE
326 WEST 64TH STREET. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60621
TELEPHONE 773.962.4100 FACSIMILE 773.602.3849

January 22, 2008

Cook County Board

Health &Hospitals Committee
118 N. Clark Street, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Commissioners:

Our institution, Saint Bernard Hospital, serves Englewood, one of Chicago?s
poorest communities and federally designated as a medically underserved area.
We see thousands of community residents each year, providing state?of-the-art,
patient?centered healthcare to those who live and work in the community
regardless of their ability to pay for services. Annually Saint Bernard provides
greater than $8 million in free care to those who cannot ajj?ord the cost.

Saint Bernard is also a member of the Association of Safety-Net Community
Hospitals. The Association of Safety-Net Community Hospitals was organized
to increase the understanding by government entities and elected o??icials of the
specific mission and needs of Safety-Net Community Hospitals in Illinois. Our
mission is critical because, with very limited exceptions, we serve only the
neediest members of society.

As Safety Net Hospitals, we are among the ?rst choice for Chicago?s poor and
uninsured sick. We provide free and low-cost health care to thousands across
the area. And clearly by de?nition we serve a ?disproportionate? share of the
state?s Medicaid clients.

But being able to serve our patients has become a challenge in recent years as
we face daunting ?nancial pressures from rising costs, significant charity care,
and the need to keep pace with technology.

Our state government has consistently recognized over the past decade that
there are no longer any signi?cant savings to be found among the
disproportionate share hospitals. The state's Medicaid funding plan is our
lifeline and helps keep us alive.

 

SERVING OUR COMMUNITY SINCE 1904 - SPONSORED BY THE RELIGIOUS HOSPITALLERS OF SAINT JOSEPH

The Cook County ordinance will bring signi?cant funds to hospitals like ours
that provide the care to the poor and uninsured. We support the state and
county?s efforts to help us serve the many individuals and families that are so
desperately in need. We also support the testimony of Sister Sheila Lyne, who
will be testifying today on behalf of the Association of Safety-Net Community

Hospitals.

The Safety Net Hospitals have been committed to working with the state
government to ?nd solutions to the Medicaid problems in Illinois. To that end
we would like to speci?cally thank Senator Je?r Schoenberg for his unwaivering
support on the creation of the past two hospital assessments.

We see the plan as an investment for our future and for the communities we
serve. We look forward to working with Cook County to ensure we can continue
to provide quality health care to the County?s most underserved populations.

We also wish to thank the members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, the Stroger Administration, the Cook County Bureau of Health
Services and all sta? for your collaboration and assistance to date.

Sincerely,

Mitt/W 1.412,; Kit/7.63

Sister Elizabeth Van Sn aten, R. H. S. J.
Pres1dent?Ch1efExecut1ve O?icer

Saint
Anthony

2875 West 19th Street 773.484.1000
PITAL Chicago, Illinois 60623 

Dedicacidn, nuesrro compromise

 

January 22, 2008

Cook County Board

Health Hospitals Committee
118 N. Clark Street, 5th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Dear Commissioners:

Saint Anthony Hospital is a member of the Association of Safety-Net Community Hospitals.
The Association of Safety-Net Community Hospitals was organized to increase the
understanding by government entities and elected of?cials of the Speci?c mission and needs of
safety-net community hospitals in Illinois. Our mission is critical because, with very limited
exceptions, we serve only the neediest members of society.

As safety-net hospitals, we are among the ?rst choice for Chicago?s poor and uninsured sick. We
provide free and low-cost health care to thousands across the area. And clearly by de?nition we
serve a ?disproportionate? share of the state?s Medicaid clients.

But being able to serve our patients has become a challenge in recent years as we face daunting
?nancial pressures from rising costs, signi?cant charity care, and the need to keep pace with
technology.

Our state government has consistently recognized over the past decade there are no longer any
signi?cant savings to be found among the disprOportionate. The state's Medicaid funding .plan is
our lifeline and helps keep us alive.

The Cook County ordinance will bring signi?cant funds to the hospitals that provide the most
care to the poor and uninsured. We support the state and county?s efforts to help us help the
many individuals and families that so desperately need our services. We also support the
testimony of Sister Sheila Lyne, who will be testifying today on behalf of the Association of
Safety-Net Community Hospitals.

The safety-net hospitals have been committed to working with the State Government to ?nd
solutions to the Medicaid problems in Illinois. To that end we would like to speci?cally thank
Senator Schoenberg for his excellent support on the creation of the past two hospital
assessments.

Sponsored by Ascension Health amt the Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart of Jew-Stella Marts Province

We see the plan as an investment for our future and for the communities we serve. We look
forward to working with Cook County to ensure we can continue to provide quality health care
to the County?s most underserved populations.

We also wish to thank the members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Stroger
Administration, the Cook County Bureau of Health Services and all staff for your collaboration

and assistance to date.

Sincerely,

5a as!


G1 . Meda 'lia

President and Chief Executive Of?cer

