REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONTRACT COMPLIANCE 

PUBLIC HEARING 


May 19, 2009 


The Honorable, 

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County 

ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Maldonado, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, Gorman,
Moreno, Peraica, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Goslin (1)

Also Present:

Commissioner Murphy; Betty Hancock-Perry - Director, Department of Contract
Compliance; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Bureau Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
Office of the State's Attorney; Carmen Triche-Colvin - Purchasing Agent;
Warren L. Batts - Chairman of the Board of Directors, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System; Bill Foley - Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System; David R. Small - Chief Operating Officer, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Leslie Duffy - Procurement Officer, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Martin J. Grant, RPH, MBA, MIS - Director of
Pharmacy, Cook County Bureau of Health Services

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Contract Compliance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, May 19, 2009 at the hour of 2:00 P.M. for a public hearing
in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
300319  

RESOLUTION CALLING FOR A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING THE
IMPACT OF UTILIZATION OF GROUP PURCHASING ORGANIZATIONS ON
M/WBEs (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution
sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, County Commissioner; Co-sponsored by
Peter N. Silvestri and Joseph Mario Moreno, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on April 9, 2009 the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board ("System Board") adopted the Procurement Policy for the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System ("System"); and
WHEREAS, the System Board took this action pursuant to the Ordinance
Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals System ("Enabling
Ordinance") which expressly provides that the System Board shall have the

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 19, 2009
PAGE

2

authority over all procurement and contracts for the System, and further
provides that the System may exercise this authority, in whole or in part,
pursuant to its discretion; and
WHEREAS, as the System's Interim Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), David R.
Small, stated in a letter to the Board of Commissioners dated April 20,2009, the
System Board has stated that it is genuinely committed to the County's policy to
promote equal opportunity in its procurement process and has expressly set
forth in the System's new Procurement Policy that Protected Class Enterprises
shall participate in not less than 35 percent of the annual aggregate value of all
contracts awarded by the System; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of its mission to ensure sound fiscal management of
all aspects of the System, the System has issued a Request for Proposal
("RFP") for the System's participation in a Group Purchasing Organization
("GPO"), a purchasing consortia that the Systems argues is in the best interest
of the System and its patients; and
WHEREAS, numerous local small business owners who are certified as
Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises ("MIWBEs") oppose the
System's use of a GPO stating that it would eliminate their ability to do business
with the County because GPOs shut out small IVlIWBE businesses and offer
opportunities only to majority corporations who pay to participate in GPO
contracts; and
WHEREAS, as an example of this exclusion, the MIWBE business owners
allege that a vendor currently supplying pharmaceuticals to the System through
a contract previously approved by the County Board has not met its M/WBE
participation goals as agreed to in its contract; and
WHEREAS, the System disputes this allegation, stating that the County Board
approved a reduced M/WBE participation goal of 3 percent due to the stringent
manufacture and delivery standards for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and
the vendor is satisfying this participation; and
WHEREAS, the Director of the Office of Contract Compliance states a different
finding in a Memorandum to the Chair of Contract Compliance, dated April 20,
2009, concluding that the pharmaceutical vendor's 3% goal has not been met.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in an effort to protect the integrity of
the M/WBE Ordinance and the impact utilization of GPOs will have on M/WBEs,
the Contract Compliance Committee of the Cook County Board will convene a
public hearing and will request to hear testimony from the following: Warren
Batts, Chairman, System Board; David R. Small, Interim System CEO; Leslie
Duffy, System Chief Procurement Officer; Betty Hancock Perry, Director of the
Office of Contract Compliance; and representatives from the MIWBE small
business community, as well as from other members of the public.
*Referred to the Contract Compliance Committee on May 5, 2009.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 19, 2009
PAGE

3

Chairman Maldonado delivered the following opening remarks:
Today we will hear testimony from the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board, the
System Administration, and representatives from the Minority and Women Business Enterprise
(MIWBE) business community on the costs and benefits of utilizing Group Purchasing
Organizations (GPOs) in the procurement of hospital supplies.
Of particular concern is the impact GPOs will have on the participation level of M/WBEs.
Numerous local, small business owners who are certified as MIWBEs contend that GPOs would
effectively eliminate their ability to do business with the County because GPOs shut out small
MIWBE businesses and offer opportunities only to majority corporations who pay to participate
in GPO contracts. They also argue that GPOs are not cost effective through the life of the
contract and do not provide the most current and state-of-the-art products.
Following the System Board's adoption of its own Procurement Policy, the System's Chief
Operating Officer, David Small, stated in a letter that you will find in your back-up material, that
the System Board is genuinely committed to the County's policy to promote equal opportunity in
its procurement process. And, he stated that in the System's new Procurement Policy that
Protected Class Enterprises shall participate in not less than 35% of the annual aggregate value
of all contracts awarded by the System. He went on to conclude that the current pharmaceutical
GPO has met its reduced MIWBE participation goal.
However, the Director of the Office of Contract Compliance states a different finding in a
Memorandum to this Chair, which you will also find in your back-up material, concluding that the
pharmaceutical vendor's reduced 3% goal has not been met.
I hope today's hearing will resolve these divergent findings and will provide some guidance on
the cost saving potential and MIWBE participation of future GPO contracts. We will hear
testimony from Warren Batts, Chairman of the System Board, David Small, the System's Chief
Operating Officer, Leslie Duffy, System Chief Procurement Officer, and Betty Hancock Perry,
Director of the Office of Contract Compliance. Finally, we will hear testimony from the M/WBE
business community and any other members of the public who wish to testify. I want to thank
you all for taking the time out of your busy schedules to participate in this hearing and for
recognizing the seriousness of its impact on Cook County's minority and women business
owners.
Chairman Maldonado asked Warren L. Batts, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System, to deliver remarks.
Chairman Batts stated the following: The Health and Hospitals System Board has reviewed the
option of using general purchasing organizations (GPOs) in depth, in response to the
instructions of the Enabling Ordinance passed by the County Board. 90% of U.S. hospitals
purchase general supplies through GPOs, and most of these organizations do so successfully
and, further, most have minority-participation and women-participation goals. Chairman Batts'
own prior experience at a Chicago hospital was that GPOs were used successfully. He made
clear that minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses will be given as much
opportunity to bid on contracts in the future as they have today. By leveraging the large
purchase power that the Health and Hospitals System possesses through centralized
purchasing, a cost-savings of $20 million should be realized this year, $20 million should be
realized next year, and more should be realized in years to come.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 19, 2009
PAGE 4

Bill Foley, Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, delivered the
following remarks: According to his experience over the years, not only is group purchasing a
best practice, it is an essential practice in controlling the supply costs of healthcare institutions.
The Health and Hospitals System's procurement policy, which is consistent with the County
Board's procurement policy, contains a commitment that 35% of the total aggregate contract
value awarded annually be awarded to MBEIWBE vendors. Amerisource Bergen Drug
Company has complied with the terms of its contract and has fulfilled its MBE requirements,
having awarded over 1% ($2.7 million) of its $213 million spend to the MBE vendor, Continental
Ltd.
Chairman Maldonado requested that David R. Small, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, provide to him a report analyzing the cost savings by the Health
and Hospitals System in pharmaceuticals.
Commissioner Sims voiced her disapproval of the use of waivers.
In response to Commissioner Silvestri's request for clarification as to how GPOs work and how
non-GPO vendors would be utilized, Mr. Small stated the following: The GPO screens its
member vendors for reliability, availability and best pricing. If a vendor outside of the GPO were
to prove better on these merits, the Health and Hospitals System would award the contract to
the vendor outside the GPO. In many instances, however, the research would not be performed
to locate such a vendor outside the GPO, if the GPO were to provide numerous vendor options
itself. When choosing a GPO, consideration is given to whether a GPO has member vendors
from Cook County.
Leslie Duffy, Procurement Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, stated that every
product procured by the Health and Hospitals System is in some way related to a Cook County
business, and this practice will continue to a degree; additionally, there will always be room for
WBE/MBE vendors.
In response to Commissioner Silvestri's inquiry, Martin J. Grant, RPH, MBA, MIS, Director of
Pharmacy, Cook County Bureau of Health Services, stated that in 2005, the average cost to the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System for a prescription was $25, and in 2008 the cost was
a little over $17 per prescription.
Commissioner Sims voiced concern that individual vendors which are not part of a GPO will not
be considered, and that Amerisource Bergen Drug Company procured a waiver which freed
them of the stricture of having to work with MWE/MBE vendors.
In response to Commissioner Sims' concerns, Betty Hancock-Perry, Director, Department of
Contract Compliance, stated the following: Amerisource Bergen Drug Company did obtain a
waiver. They also utilized a two-tier subcontracting arrangement, where an MBE/MWE
subcontractor reported to another subcontractor which reported to Amerisource Bergen Drug
Company. While this is not expressly forbidden in the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System's Contract Compliance Ordinance, it is not the practice of the Cook County Contract
Compliance Department.
Additionally, it is unclear whether Amerisource Bergen Drug
Company subcontracted 1% or 3% to this MBE/MWE subcontractor. They did not, however,
meet the MBE/MWE contract participation on this contract.

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 19, 2009
PAGE 5

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Bureau Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Office of the State's Attorney,
provided the following clarification regarding the County's role in the Health and Hospital
System's procurement process: The County, under the current Enabling Ordinance, has
delegated regulation power to the Health and Hospitals System. However, the Board can
convene Contract Compliance meetings because the County retains oversight responsibility
regarding MBE/MWE compliance.
Ms. Reidy and Ms. Hancock-Perry verified that the Health and Hospitals System is required to
award 35% of the annual aggregate value of all its contracts to MBE/MWE vendors.
Chairman Maldonado asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
6.  
7.  
8.  
9.  
10.  
11.  
12.  
13.  
14.  

Valerie O'Donnell - Concerned Citizen
Donald High - Concerned Citizen
George Loera - Concerned Citizen
George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
Pam McDonough - President and Chief Executive Officer, Alliance for Illinois
Manufacturing
Hedy M. Ratner - Co-President, WBDC
Ronak Lal- President, Globe Medical Supply
Michael Kody - Vice President of Supply Chain Solutions, Amerisource Bergen Drug
Company
Elliott EI-Amin - Vice President of Sales, CE Services LLC; written statement also
submitted.
Phillip Barreda - EVP, Chicago Minority Business Development
Ross Litton - President, Howard Medical
Karen Doehning - President, Diversity Food Service
Debbie Smith - Director of Programs, Illinois SBDC at CNCDC
Genevieve D. Thomas - President, Community Health

Written statement only
1.  

Mary Kay Minaghan - Local Lobbyist, Women Construction Owners & Executives, USA,
Chicago Caucus

 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 19, 2009
PAGE

6

Commissioner Butler moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Chairman Maldonado.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted, 

Committee on Contract Compliance 


XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Roberto Maldonado, Chairman

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Matthew B. Deleon, Secretary

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Il 60602.

 