COMMISSIONERS

EARLEAN COLLINS
ROBERT STEELE

JERRY BUTLER

WILLIAM M. BEAVERS
DEBORAH SIMS

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO
ROBERTO MALDONADO

1st DISTRICT
2nd DISTRICT
3rd DISTRICT
4th DISTRICT
5th DISTRICT
6th DISTRICT
7th DISTRICT
8th DISTRICT

 

OFFICE OF THE

COMMISSIONERS

PETER N. SILVESTRI 9TH DISTRICT
MIKE OUIGLEY 10TH DISTRICT
JOHN P. DALEY 11TH DISTRICT
FORREST CLAYPOOL 12TH DISTRICT
LARRY SUFFREDIN 13TH DISTRICT
GREGG GOSLIN 14TH DISTRICT
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 15TH DISTRICT
ANTHONY J. PERAICA 16TH DISTRICT

ELIZABETH ANN DOODY GORMAN 17TH DISTRICT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS

118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO 60602
(312) 603-6398

TODD H. STROGER

PRESIDENT

MARCH 23, 2007

REVISED NOTICE

MATTHEW B. DELEON
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD

There?will?be?a?meeting The recessed meeting of the Finance Labor Subcommittee of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County will reconvene on Wednesday, March 28, 2007 at the hour of 12:00
PM. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to
consider the following:

285079

AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE, SECTION 34?123 LIVING WAGE
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, County Commissioner.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34,
Section 34-123 is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-123. Living wage.

Unless expressly waived by the County Board not less than Aa living wage
fereNIees?perfemied?eppredueed shall be paid to 
lay?a each employee of any person or business entity awarded a contract or
subcontract with the County or by a for-pro?t organization
which has an owner-occupied property who t_hat receives or renews a Class 6b or
Class 9 property tax incentive except in applications or renewals of Class 9 property

incentives for supportive living facilities 

 

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Contract means any written agreement requiring Board approval whereby the
County is committed to expend or does expend funds in connection with any contract
or subcontract which requires in the performance thereof the employment of any
number of full time non-county employees, including, but not limited to, the following
classifications: cashier, clerical, custodial, day laborer, elevator operator, home and
health care, laundry, leased employee, parking attendant, and security guard. The
term "contrac shall not include contracts with not-for-profit organizations, community
development block grants, President's Of?ce of Employment Training, Sheriff?s Work
Alternative Program, or Department of Corrections inmates.

Contracting agency means the County of Cook.

Eligible contractors means any person or business entity awarded a contract or
subcontract by the County which requires in the performance thereof the employment
of any number of full time non-county employees, including, but not limited to, the
following classifications: cashier, clerical, custodial, day laborer, elevator operator,
home and health care, laundry, leased employee, parking attendant, and security
guard.

Employee means any individual permitted to work by an employer in an
occupation but does not include any employer's parent, spouse or child or other
members of his immediate family. This definition of employee may be further defined
by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Printed on Recycled Paper

FINANCE LABOR NOTICE
MARCH 23, 2007
PAGE 2

Living wage means a minimum wage of no less than $9.43 per hour if employee
health benefits are provided, or $11.78 per hour without health benefits. The employee
health benefit contribution shall not exceed 25 percent of the health insurance
premium. As of January 1, 2006, and each January 1 thereafter, the living wage shall
be adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines for a family of four as
published annually by the United States Department of Health and Human Services,
to constitute the following: there will be an annual adjustment calculated as 100
percent of the federal poverty line for a family of four (as defined by the US.
Department of Health and Human Services) with health benefits and 125 percent of
the federal poverty, line for a family of four without health benefits.

Net?f for pro?t organization means any person, corporation, or business entity
except those having tax exempt status under Section of the United States
Internal Revenue Code and recognized under State not-for-profit law or their
respective successors.

 

 

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in
Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code for Class 6b industrial property or Class 9
multifamily residential property.

Supportive living facilities mean programs which establish an alternative to
nursing home care for low income older persons and persons with disabilities under
Medicaid and certified by the State Department of Public Aid.

Waqe means compensation due to an employee by reason of his employment.
including allowances determined by the Bureau of Human Resources for gratuities,
and when furnished by the employer, for meals and lodqinq actually used by the

employee.

Every contract shall contain a provision or provisions stipulating that they are
currently paying the living wage required to be paid to the employees listed?under
listed under the definition of living wage set forth in this section and each such
contract shall further contain provisions obligating the eligible contractor or
subcontractor of such eligible contractor, to pay its employees for work at not less than
the living wage.

Every for-profit persen?epbusiness?entity?ef organization which has an
owner-occupied property whe that receives or renews a Class 6b or Class 9 property
tax incentive, except as exempted herein for supportive living facilities,
shall provide an affidavit to the applicable County agency stipulating that such person
or business entity is currently paying the living wage required to be paid to the
employees listed under the definition of living wage set forth in this section.

The Purchasing Agent shall require as part of the bidding and sole source
procedure that any covered contractor provide the County certification of its
compliance with this section.

Any contract that violates the provisions contained in this section shall be
subject to cancellation by the County Board. Any Class 6b or Class 9 property tax
incentive that violated the provisions contained in this Section shall be subject to
cancellation bv the County Board.

(9) Any contractor disqualified from eligibility by the County Board shall be
ineligible for two years following violation of this section. With respect to any Class 6b
or Class 9 property tax incentive. any for profit ordanization found to have violated the
provisions of this Section by the County Board shall be ineligible for any Class 6b or
Class 9 property incentive for a period of two years from the date of the County
Board?s determination.

 

Annually, the County Assessor's Of?ce shall review and analyze the property
tax incentives program to determine whether the living wage program has resulted in
less application for and utilization of the incentive classification. A report of this review
shall be provided by the County Board.

FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE NOTICE
MARCH 23, 2007
PAGE 3

This section shall apply to contracts advertised for bid or if not advertised for
bid, approved for sole source or to for-profit persons or business entities of owner?
occupied properties who receive a Class 6b or Class 9 property tax incentive on or
after January 1, 2005.

This section shall not apply to any applications or renewal of a Class 9 tax
incentive, as provided under Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code, for
supportive living facilities certified by the State Department of Public Aid.

This section shall not apply to any contract with the County entered into prior
to the effective date of the ordinance from which this Section is derived.

(0rd. No. 98-0-21, 1, 2, 9-15-1998; Ord. No. 05-0-02, 1, 2, 12-1-2004;
Ord. No. 05-0-42, 1, 2, 9-20-2005.)

*Referred to the Finance Labor Subcommittee on February 21, 2007.

.. . .. .. In

*No action was taken on this Item at the Finance Labor Subcommittee on
March 13: 2007.

 

?mm-K243212291:

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman: Murphy
Vice-Chairman: Moreno
Members: Beavers, Butler, Gorman, Maldonado, Sims

