Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Business and Economic Development Committee
9:30 AM
Wednesday, November 16, 2016

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)

Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
16-6350
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/26/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to approve
16-6350. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)
16-5906

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners
Page 1 of 20

 PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PW GOLF SUPPLY LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: PW Golf Supply LLC
Address: 300 Bond Street, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Elk Grove Village
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 2 PINs: 08-22-102-071-0000; 08-22-102-187-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 40-15
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13 months at time of application to Assessor
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project:
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location:
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County:

5 full-time, 2 part-time
21 full-time, 1 part-time
21 full-time, 1 part-time

Estimated Number of construction jobs: 35
Proposed use of property:

Industrial-manufacture and distribution of golf equipment and supplies

Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
Page 2 of 20

 WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to recommend
for approval 16-5906. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)

Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)
16-5928

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board
Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CENTRAL AVENUE CORPORATION CLASS 6B SUSTAINABLE EMERGENCY RELIEF
(SER)
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Page 3 of 20

 Property Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the
following information:
Applicant: Central Avenue Corporation
Address: 5000 South Central Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Length of time at current location: Over 30 years
Length of time property under same ownership: Over 30 years
Is there evidence supporting 10 years of the same ownership and/or occupancy (tenancy): Yes
Age of the Property (Building):
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Unincorporated Cook Stickney Township
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number(s): 19-08-203-017-0000;19-08-203-027-0000;19-08-203-038-0000 and
19-08-203-044-0000
Municipal Resolution Number:

Located in Unincorporated Cook

Evidence of Economic Hardship: Yes
Number of blighting factors associated with the property: Three (3) blighted factors Dilapidation;
Deterioration and Deleterious Land-use or layout
Has justification for the Class 6b SER program been provided?: Yes
Estimated # of jobs created by this project:
Estimated # of jobs retained at this location:
Estimated # of employees in Cook County:

Not applicable
14 full-time, two (2) part-time
Not applicable

Estimated # of construction jobs: Not applicable
Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing: Warehousing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided:

Yes

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) that provides an applicant a reduction in the
assessment level for a long-term existing industrial enterprise that meets the qualifications of the SER
Page 4 of 20

 program ; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment requires that an applicant under the
Class 6b SER program provide evidence justifying their participation in the subject program; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property for the
purpose of the Class 6bSER Program; and
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of the application for the Class 6b SER Program;
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of economic
hardship to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development supporting a determination that
participation in the Class 6b SER Program is necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue its
operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and without the Class 6b SER the industrial
enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming
vacant and unused; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County Property Tax Incentive for the same
property; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for the industrial enterprise to
maintain is operations on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of
this property to meet the definition of the Class 6b SER program; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that the application is approved by the Cook County Assessor. Properties receiving Class
6b SER will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the
12th year; and
WHEREAS, the applicant understand that the Class 6b SER classification is not renewable and also the
applicant vacates the specific real estate while the Class 6b SER is in place the designation will
terminate and the assessment level will immediately revert back to the 25% assessment level; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
meets the requirements of the Class 6bSER Program; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to recommend
for approval 16-5928. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 5 of 20

 Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)

Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

16-5930
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MUNICH PROPERTIES, LLC OR ITS ASSIGNEE CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: Munich Properties, LLC or Its Assignee
Address: 16600 Dixie Highway, Markham, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: City of Markham
Cook County District: 5th
Permanent Index Number: 29-19-309-011-0000 and 29-19-309-012-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: City of Markham Resolution Number16-02-2143
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Six (6) months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project:
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location:

34 full-time jobs
40 full-time, two (2) part-time

Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: not applicable
Estimated Number of construction jobs: Five (5) construction jobs
Proposed use of property:

What will this property be used for logistic warehousing and distribution
Page 6 of 20

 Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, to
recommend for approval 16-5930. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Page 7 of 20

 Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)
16-4643

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, Sec. 74-62 through 74-63 and Sec. 74-73 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 74-62. - System established; terms defined.
(a)Established. The County hereby establishes the system of classifying real estate for the
purposes
of assessment for taxation set forth in this division.
(b)Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
Abandoned property means, except as otherwise specified in Section 74-63, buildings and other
structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been
purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest.
Area in need of commercial development means any area within the County which satisfies the
provisions of Section 74-65(a).
Certified local government means a unit of local government fulfilling the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. § 470a) [the "Act"] that has been certified by the
Illinois State Historic Preservation Officer pursuant to the Act.
Community area means an area within the City of Chicago so designated and identified by the
Social and Economic Characteristics of Chicago's Population: Community Area Profiles, December 1992
or revisions thereto, or in the County outside the City of Chicago, as defined by the municipality
concerned or by the County in unincorporated areas.
Contributing building means a building which is a historic structure within a specifically designated
historic or landmark district pursuant to a local ordinance, approved by a certified local government,
which has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, and which meets the following
criteria:
Page 8 of 20

 (1) The building was constructed within or present during the period of historical significance of the
district;
(2) The building relates to the significant features, qualities and/or themes that give the district its
historic, cultural and/or architectural significance; and
(3) The building substantially retains its design, materials and appearance from the period of
historical significance of the district; or if substantially altered, the changes are reversible such
that, through the substantial rehabilitation of the building, the building will be returned to a
state that substantially retains its design, materials and appearance from the period of historical
significance of the district.
Cook County Tax Reactivation Project means a project in the County of Cook administered by the
Cook County Assessor's Office, or other authorized entity, wherein marketable properties located in the
County of Cook are identified and then purchased through the no cash bid process pursuant to Chapter
35 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or any subsequent statute.
Expiring contract means a project based assistance contract under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) which, under the terms of the contract, will expire.
Fair market rent and HUD FMR mean the fair market rental established under Section 8(c) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f).
HUD means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
HUD's Section 8 renewal policy guidelines means that certain handbook titled "Section 8 Renewal
Policy: Guidelines for the Renewal of Project Based Section 8 Contracts" as published from time to time
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Multi-Family Housing,
as amended from time to time, or any successor publication.
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency means the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, established
pursuant to the Historic Preservation Agency Act (20 ILCS 3405/1, et seq.) and the Illinois Historic
Preservation Act (20 ILCS 3410/1, et seq.).
In need of substantial revitalization means an area no less than ten contiguous acres or more than
one contiguous square mile in size which is in a state of extreme economic depression evidenced by such
factors, as defined in the rules and regulations as promulgated by the Office of the County Assessor,
among others, as:
(1) Substantial unemployment;
(2) A low level of median family income;
(3) Aggravated abandonment, deterioration, and underutilization of properties;
(4) A lack of viable industrial and commercial buildings whose absence significantly contributes to
Page 9 of 20

 the depressed economic and unemployment conditions in the area;
(5) A clear pattern of stagnation or decline of real estate taxes within the area as a result of its
depressed condition;
(6) A manifest lack of economic feasibility for private enterprise to accomplish the necessary
modernization, rehabilitation and development of the area without public assistance and
encouragement; and
(7) Other factors which evidence an imminent threat to public health, welfare and safety.
Industrial Growth Zone means real estate located within certain enterprise zones within Cook
County as identified by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, including the Cal-Sag Enterprise
Zone, Calumet Enterprise Zone, Will-Cook Enterprise Zone, and Lincoln and 394 Corridor Enterprise
Zone and such other industrial areas as may be designated by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
as areas in need of industrial development or redevelopment, and real estate located in certain industrial
corridors which have been identified as areas in need of industrial development or redevelopment,
including the Burnside Industrial Corridor, Calumet Industrial Corridor, Greater Southwest Industrial
Corridor, Northwest Industrial Corridor, and Roosevelt-Cicero Industrial Corridor as identified by the
City of Chicago.
Landmark means a building which is specifically designated as a historic or landmark structure
pursuant to a local ordinance, approved by a certified local government, pursuant to its criteria, which
have been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. The definition of landmark does not
include a facade or other architectural element which has been preserved and designated as a historic
structure, if the remainder of the building has been demolished and replaced.
Low- or moderate-income person or household means a person or household occupying a single
dwelling unit and whose combined annual income is equal to or less than the income limits for
low-income families for the Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area as determined by the Secretary of the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437 et seq.). A household consists of all the occupants of a legal dwelling
unit, related or unrelated.
Major rehabilitation means, for purposes of the Class 9 provisions of this division only, the
extensive renovation or replacement of primary building components or systems as further prescribed by
rule of the Assessor.
Manufacturing means the material staging and production of goods used in procedures commonly
regarded as manufacturing, processing, fabrication, or assembling which changes existing material into
new shapes, new qualities, or new combinations and including research and development associated
with the production of goods.
Mark up to market option means a contract renewal option, pursuant to Section 524(a)(4)(A) of the
Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 [MAHRA] (Title V of Public Law
No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as amended by Section 531 of the Departments of
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
Page 10 of 20

 2000 (Pub. L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat. 1109ff) (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) or any successor
statute, for eligible properties located in strong markets, where a rent comparability study conducted by
HUD has determined that comparable market rents are at or above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market
Rent, and for which HUD is authorized to approve renewal terms providing rents higher than the HUD
FMR. The mark up to market option includes increasing rents from the HUD FMR to the level of an
existing use restriction on a property.
Mark up to market option under HUD's discretionary authority means a contract renewal option,
pursuant to Section 524 (a)(4)(C) or (D) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability
Act of 1997 [MAHRA] (Title V of Public Law No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as
amended by Section 531 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development,
and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Pub. L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat.
1109ff) (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) or any successor statute, providing rents higher than the HUD FMR, based
on the exercise of HUD's discretionary authority, for properties which do not necessarily meet the usual
eligibility criteria, but do meet a special set of statutory criteria, in that a vulnerable population is
affected; there is a low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance difficult to
use, or a lack of comparable housing; or the project is a high priority for the local community, as
demonstrated by a contribution of state or local funds to the property.
Market value means that value, estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary sale.
Marketable means tax delinquent commercial and/or industrial parcels targeted by the South
Suburban Tax Reactivation Program which have been identified by the County Department of Planning
and Development, or other authorized entity, as a property, that if developed, would bring economic
benefit to the affected taxing districts.
Multifamily residential real estate means real estate which is used primarily for residential purposes
and consists of an existing multifamily building containing seven or more rental dwelling units.
No further remediation letter means a letter from the IEPA, addressing the entire site, approving or
approving with conditions a remedial action completion report.
Period of historical significance, for purposes of the Class L provisions of this division, means the
period of development history (represented by the buildings in the district) for which the district is
significant.
Preservation commission means a commission or similar body established by a certified local
government pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. § 470a) [the
"Act"], generally for the purpose of identifying, preserving, protecting, recommending for designation
and encouraging the continued use and the rehabilitation of areas, properties and structures having
historical and/or architectural significance.
Real estate means not only the land itself, whether laid out in town or city lots, or otherwise, with
all things contained therein, but also all buildings, structures and improvements, and their permanent
fixtures, of whatsoever kind, thereon, and all rights and privileges belonging or in anywise pertaining
thereto. Included therein is any vehicle or similar portable structures used or so constructed as to permit
its being used as a dwelling for one or more persons; if such structure is resting in whole on a permanent
Page 11 of 20

 foundation.
Real estate, improved. For purposes of this division and more particularly Section 74-63, real estate
while under lease or license to a unit of local government for an annual rental or fee of not more than
$1.00, shall not be deemed to be improved as a result of any alterations, additions or modifications
consisting of the construction, landscaping, maintenance, or beautification of parks, parkways, parking
lots, playgrounds, or similar public facilities operated or maintained for the public benefit. During the
term of such lease or license, including extensions thereof, the real estate which is the subject of such
lease or license shall be treated as though such alterations, additions, or modifications have not been
made.
Real estate used for commercial purposes means any real estate used primarily for buying and
selling of goods and services, or for otherwise providing goods and services, including any real estate
used for hotel and motel purposes.
Real estate used for industrial purposes means any real estate used primarily in manufacturing, as
defined in this Section, or in the extraction or processing of raw materials unserviceable in their natural
state to create new physical products or materials, or in the processing of materials for recycling, or in
the transportation or storage of raw materials or finished physical goods in the wholesale distribution of
such materials or goods for sale or leasing.
Real estate used for residential purposes means any improvement or portion thereof occupied solely
as a dwelling unit.
Remedial action plan means a plan addressing remediation of the entire site, approved by the IEPA
pursuant to its site remediation program. The plan must include, as applicable: an executive summary;
remediation objectives appropriate for the described planned industrial or commercial use; remedial
technologies selected; confirmation sampling plan; applicable preventive, engineering, and institutional
controls and monitoring procedures; cost estimates and timetable.
Rents affordable to low- and moderate-income persons and households means gross rents that do
not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a household whose income equals 55 percent of the
median income for the Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area, with adjustments for number of bedrooms
in the units, as determined annually by the Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, or rents for units occupied by households receiving housing assistance under
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437 et seq.). The term "gross rents"
means the rental cost of the unit plus any allowances for tenant paid utilities (except telephone), services
and appliances.
Section 8 contract means a contract for project-based assistance for a multifamily housing project
under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f).
Section 8 contract renewal means (a) renewal of a Section 8 contract for an additional five years
under the mark up to market option or under the mark up to market option under HUD's discretionary
authority, after a determination of eligibility by HUD pursuant to its authority under Section 524(a)(4)
(A), (C), or (D) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 [MAHRA]
Page 12 of 20

 (Title V of Public Law No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as amended by Section 531 of
the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Pub. L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat. 1109ff) (42 U.S.C. § 1437f)
or any successor statute; or (b) renewal of a Section 8 contract by a not-for-profit corporation under any
available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal Policy
Guidelines.
Single room occupancy means a room rented as sleeping or living quarters with or without cooking
facilities located in the same room as the sleeping or living quarters, and with or without individual
bathrooms.
Single room occupancy building means a multiunit residential building in which at least 90 percent
of the units are single room occupancy units, excluding rooms occupied by management employees, and
in which at least 75 percent of the annual occupancy of the SRO units is for monthly terms.
Site means, for the purposes of the Class C provisions of this division, the real estate which is
remediated and developed for industrial or commercial use. The site must be identified by property index
number, and must be delineated by an accurate legal description if it comprises less than the whole of
any parcel at the time of application.
Site remediation program or program means remediation of the site as appropriate for the planned
industrial or commercial use, according to a remedial action plan approved by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA), pursuant to its site remediation program, under the authority of Title XVII of
the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/58 et seq.).
State Historic Preservation Officer means the Director of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
Substantial rehabilitation,, for the purposes of the Class L provisions of this Article only, means the
extensive renovation or replacement of primary building systems of the landmark and/or the significant
improvement of the condition of the landmark, as further prescribed by rule of the Assessor; which meets
or exceeds the standards of the United States Department of the Interior for rehabilitation, preservation,
restoration, and reconstruction of historic properties; and which has been completed in accordance with
plans approved by the certified local government within which the landmark is located.
Targeted area means census tracts in the City of Chicago or census block groups in the County
outside of the City of Chicago, as defined and identified by the U.S. Census Bureau's most recent census,
in which at least 51 percent of the residents are low- or moderate-income persons.
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
(1) Class 1. Unimproved real estate.
(2) Class 2. Real estate:
a. Used as a farm;
Page 13 of 20

 b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a
government subsidized housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest
assessment category;
c. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where
the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or
d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division,
provided that:
1.

At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80
percent of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single
Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (hereinafter "FMR schedule");

2.

No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the
current FMR schedule;

3.

The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in
the building shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and

4.

The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and
health codes and requirements.

In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2 classification
shall be revoked.
(3) Class 3. All improved real estate used for residential purposes which is not included in any other
class.
(4) Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-profit corporation in furtherance of the
purposes set forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes. If such real estate is used
for residential purposes, it shall be classified in the appropriate residential class.
(5) Class 5a. All real estate not included in Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5b, Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b, Class 7c, Class 8, Class 9, Class S or Class L of this Section.
(6) Class 5b. All real estate used for industrial purposes as defined herein and not included in any
other class.
(7) Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to
their value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the
Page 14 of 20

 rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of
land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the
rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
a.
An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or
the County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
has determined that the incentive provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to
occur on that specific real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the Class 6b application to the Assessor. A certified
copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not filed at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead
file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be,
confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested. If
the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant must obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized
officer of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the
case may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 6b application with the
Assessor. A certified copy of the authorized officer letter shall be included with the Class
6b application at the time of filing the application with the Assessor. The application shall
include any other information deemed necessary by the Assessor. The applicant must
demonstrate that the industrial development project qualifies for the Class 6b
classification and shall bear the expense of doing so.
b. A copy of the Resolution, or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested, or the
letter from an authorized officer if the real estate is in an Industrial Growth Zone,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from
the affected districts.
c. Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of
such new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive.
With respect to abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the
Assessor prior to the commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused
property.
d. In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
Page 15 of 20

 been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or
2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have
been vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class
6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required
finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate
such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution
finding that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance
or Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility
application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not
filed at the time of the Class 6b eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at
that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that
a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant must obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized
officer of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the
case may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 6b application with the
Assessor. A certified copy of the authorized officer letter shall be included with the Class
6b application at the time of filing the application with the Assessor. The application shall
include any other information deemed necessary by the Assessor. The applicant must
demonstrate that the industrial development project qualifies for the Class 6b
classification and shall bear the expense of doing so.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if there has been no purchase for value and the
buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous
months. The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and
consenting to the Class 6b application under the TEERM Program. If the Ordinance or
Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to
validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b,
Page 16 of 20

 and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and
present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to
its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as
well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that
the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time
of filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If
the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall
instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be,
confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.
Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or the
County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify
finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER
Program if:
1.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for
a minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and

2.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its
staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant
and unused.

The finding that a property is qualified, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval
of the County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"qualified" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required
finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate
such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution
finding that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance
Page 17 of 20

 or Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for
purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b application with
the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment
appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the
time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from
the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or
Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program or SER Program under a Class 6b application must
be received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30, 2018 to receive
consideration.
The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of annual reports by recipients of Class
6b incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the
number of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be
required to certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of
Class 6b incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the
Assessor within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time
of the SER application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be
forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports
within the time est

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to suspend the
rules 16-4643. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to accept as
substituted 16-4643. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

16-4643
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Page 18 of 20

 TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, Sec. 74-62 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-62. - System established; terms defined.
(a)Established. The County hereby establishes the system of classifying real estate for the purposes of
assessment for taxation set forth in this division.
(b)Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned property means, except as otherwise specified in Section 74-63, buildings and other
structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been purchased
for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest. Purchase of value shall include
all transactions with any government or quasi government entity.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to approve as
substituted 16-4643. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to recommend
for approval as substituted 16-4643. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
García, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent:

Morrison and Steele (2)

Page 19 of 20

 Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 20 of 20

 