Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Report of the Homeland Security and Emergency
Management Committee

Wednesday, July 23, 2014

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Reyes (5)

Also Present:

Michael Masters, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd) .
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
14-3553
Presented by: Michael Masters, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING AND VARIOUS
AGREEMENTS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26 Emergency
Management and Services, Section 26-35 of the Cook County Code of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as Follows:

 Sec. 26-35. Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations.
(a) Mutual Aid, Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements. The Executive Director of DHSEM may
negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements and Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements with other
political subdivisions and taxing districts of the State as well as agreements with nongovernmental
organizations, provided such agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan
and emergency management program. but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been
approved by the County Board. Negotiated Mutual Aid Agreements, Intergovernmental Agreements
or Interagency Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of execution by the
Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be authorized to enter into Memoranda of
Understanding, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties thereto with respect to preparedness and
response activities within Cook County without further approval by the Board.
(b) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum Development.
The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute agreements or
Memoranda of Understanding (“MOU”) with other political subdivisions or governmental units,
nonprofit entities, and volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of procuring and
providing training and curriculum development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders
throughout Cook County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing indemnification. Said
agreements or MOUs shall not require additional authorization from the County Board when limited
to the purpose of procuring and/or providing training and/or curriculum development for first
responder agencies and other stakeholders.
(c) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership Opportunities.
In order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate effective and
efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director shall be authorized
to negotiate and execute MOUs or agreements with other political subdivisions, governmental units,
nonprofit entities, volunteer groups and private parties, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties
thereto with respect to preparedness and response activities within Cook County, without further
approval by the County Board. These agreements or MOUs shall not bind Cook County to
indemnification provisions, nor shall such MOUs obligate Cook County to make any direct
payments to a third party. Said agreements or MOUs may not require a separate Mutual Aid
Agreement, Intergovernmental Agreement or Interagency Agreements; however, should the
agreement or MOU require the County to indemnify the other party, County Board authorization
will be required in advance of execution.
(d) The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all agreements or MOUs entered into
pursuant to the authority afforded in subsection (b) and (c) and make available to the President or
the Cook County Board of Commissioners a quarterly report listing the various agreements or
MOUs entered into pursuant to this authority at their request
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History:
6/18/14
Emergency Management Committee.

Board of Commissioners referred to the Homeland Security and

 A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Reyes (5)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this meeting
be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Collins, Fritchey, Murphy and Reyes (5)
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING
ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File Id Number 14-3553

Recommended for Approval

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

 