STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on February 13, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Melissa
Mlynski, Executive Director (participated by phone); Jerald S. Post, General Counsel, and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 16, 2014

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the January 16, 2014 meeting. Member Anderson moved to
approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the period
of time from January 1 through January 31, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board
examined the report and discussed it. Fiscal, legislative, and mediation reports were also presented to the Board by the
Executive Director.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CB-06-035-C
Carmethelia Otis, et al./ Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, Local 200

General Counsel Post called the case. He then stated that Respondent filed a motion for oral argument significantly after
the filing of the exceptions. He recommended that the Board deny the motion for oral argument. Member Lewis made a
motion to deny the motion for oral argument. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote. General Counsel Post then asked Counsel Philip Kazanjian to present and discuss the case
to the Board. Member Anderson recused himself from the case. Counsel Kazanjian then stated that on October 17, 2013,
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Michelle N. Owen issued a Recommended Compliance Decision and Order (RDO),
recommending that the Respondent be ordered to comply with the Compliance Order previously issued in this matter. He
then presented and discussed the exceptions and recommended that the Board adopt the ALJ's RDO. After discussion,
Member Lewis moved to accept the ALJ’s RDO. Chairman Gierut seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-13-036
Ricky Anderson/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on June 26, 2013 the
Executive Director issued a dismissal of the charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act. General Counsel Post then reviewed the issues raised by the Charging Party’s appeal. After his
presentation, General Counsel Post recommended that the Executive Director's dismissal be affirmed. After discussion,
Member Anderson moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.
ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Lewis made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of March, 2014.

2

 