 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, January 14, 2014 Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to discuss the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the
Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony
shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to
act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the
time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing
future testimony.

Aaron Beals, Special Administrator of the Estate of Thomas Beals v. Sheri)?? and County (Cermak)
United States of America v. Cook County, et al. (for informational purposes only)

Jimmy Doe v. Cook County (for informational purposes only)

Lambert v. Jamison, et al.

Hernandez v. Cook County Sheri??s Department

Terrill Mchael Saunders and Vincent Thames v. City of Chicago, et 

SUBCOMMITTEE ROUTINELY MEETS IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.

zs?: k4 J?wyw

Wuhew De] con

Secretary
Chairman: Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Collins, Gainer, Schneider, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 2 of 2

