 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing Community Development Committee

9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569

Wednesday, August 3, 2016
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioner Suffredin (3)
Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

No Public Speakers

16-4618
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/11/2016

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Committee

Minutes be approve. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

16-4200

Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD

Department: Bureau of Economic Development

Grantee: Department of Planning and Development

Grantor: Of?ce of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Purpose: Removal of Lead Based Paint in homes in high-risk areas of Suburban Cook County.
Grant Amount: $2,000,000.00

Grant Period: 9/1/2016 8/31/2019

Fiscal Impact: None

Accounts: 

Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the ?scal impact on Cook County, if

any.

Summary: The Bureau of Economic Development respectfully requests acceptance of the Lead Hazard
Reduction Grant funding of $2 million related to the removal of lead based paint in homes in high?risk areas of
suburban Cook County.

In accordance with HUD requirements, the Cook County Department of Planning and Development and the Cook
County Department of Public Health coordinated on the application and will provide lead hazard mitigation in
conjunction with the New Residential Resilience Program, which will address issues around ?ooding and install
measures to prevent future ?ooding in many of these same homes. High incidence of lead poisoning is currently
found in the following communities, which will be the target of this grant: Town of Cicero, Cities of Berwyn, Blue
Island, Calumet City and Villages of Calumet Park, Dolton, Maywood, Riverdale, and Robbins. Two sub?recipients
have been identi?ed to assist with construction scoping and oversight, Northwest Housing Partnership (all areas
north of 39th Street) and Neighborhood Housing Services of Chicago (all areas south of 39th Street).

The Bureau intends to introduce this item at the Cook County Board meeting scheduled for 7/13/2016, for review
of the Housing and Workforce Development Committee for the 8/3/2016 Board Meeting on your behalf. We
respectfully request approval for the acceptance of this grant and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development
or his/her designee be authorized to execute on behalf of the County of Cook any and all documents necessary to
further the program approval herein including any modi?cations thereto.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Grant
Award be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suf?'edin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

Page 2 of 2

16-4201
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development

PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development

Other Part(ies): Over The Rainbow Association, Evanston, Illinois
Request: Approval of a HOME Investment Partnership Loan

Total Development Cost: $12,129,931.00

Project Loan Amount: $1,600,000.00

Fiscal Impact: None

Account(s): 772-5 80160

Summary: The Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submits the attached Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) project loan
recommendation in the amount of $1,600,000.00 to the Midtown Crossing Limited Partnership.

This project loan will be utilized to support HOME eligible project costs incurred during the new construction of
a thirty three (33) unit multi-family rental housing project in Des Plaines, IL. All units will be HOME -assisted.
The total development cost (TDC) is $12,129,931.00. The requested HOME funds account for thirteen (13)
percent of the TDC. Additional ?mding sources include a private mortgage, Federal Home Loan Banks - Affordable
Housing Program and Illinois Housing Development Authority (IHDA) Low-Income Housing Tax Credits
(LIHTC).

The requested HOME funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms: A
0% interest, with a $5,000 annual payment, a 30-year loan term as well as a 20-year affordability period. The loan
will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission.

The Department would like to request approval for the attached HOME project loan and
authorization to proceed to execute on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further
the aforementioned project. The Department intends to formally introduce this item at the Cook County Board
meeting scheduled for 7/ 13/2016, on your behalf.

The Department requests that this item be reviewed and approved at the 8/3/2016 meeting of the full Board with a
separate referral to the Housing and Community Development Committee.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this HONIE
Investment Partnerships Program be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following
vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

Page 3 of 3

16-421 1
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development

PROPOSED GRANT AWARD

Department: Department of Flaming and Development

Grantee: Cook County Bureau of Economic Development

Grantor: US. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Purpose: To support various community development, homeless and social services, affordable housing, and
economic development activities in suburban Cook County.

Grant Amount:

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG): $9,796,130.00
Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG): $814,055.00

HOME Investment Partnerships: $4,590,860.00

Grant Period:

CDBG: 10/1/2016 9/30/2017
ESG: 10/1/2016 - 9/30/2018
HOME: 10/1/2016 9/30/2021

Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: 

Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the ?scal impact on Cook County, if
any.

Summary: Transmitted herewith are the proposed funding sources and uses for the 2016 Program Year for the
Community Development Block Grant Emergency Solutions Grant and HOME Investment
Partnerships (HOME) programs.

These funds are provided to Cook County via an annual formula grant through the US. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) and are restricted for use within suburban Cook County. The Flaming and
Development Subcommittee of the Economic Development Advisory Council (EDAC) and the full EDAC are
expected to approve these recommendations at public hearings which will be held in July.

The 2016 Program Year funding allocations are as follows:

CDBG: $9,796,130
ESG: $814,055
HOME: $4,590,860

CDBG funding may be utilized to support various community development activities for the bene?t of low- and
moderate-income persons.

Page 4 of 4

ESG funding may be utilized to support various shelter and service activities for the bene?t of homeless persons or
persons at?risk of homelessness.

HOME funding may be utilized to support affordable housing development activities for the bene?t of
low-income persons.

The proposed sources and uses of all program funds will be incorporated into the County?s Annual Action Plan,
which will be made available for public comment prior to submittal to HUD by 8/15/2016.

I respectfully request approval of the recommended proposed funding sources and uses for the 2016 CDBG, ESG,
and HOME ?nds; and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her designee be authorized to
execute, on behalf of the County of Cook any and all documents necessary to further the approval herein, including
but not limited to, subrecipient agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modi?cations thereto,
loan documents, lien assignments, releases of mortgages and liens, and mortgage assumptions.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Grant

Award be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

16-4227
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

A RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES DELIVERED BY THE
CHICAGO METROPOLITAN AGENCY FOR PLANNING

WHEREAS, the County of Cook (?the County?), Department of Planning and Development has applied for local
technical assistance services through the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning for assistance in
the completion of an Unincorporated Areas Plan for portions of Maine and North?eld Townships; and

WHEREAS, the County?s request for such assistance has been recommended by CMAP as a priority project; and

WHEREAS, CMAP has adopted the GO TO 2040 Plan as the long-range regional comprehensive plan for the
seven-county Chicago region, encompassing Cook, DuPage, Kane, Kendall. Lake, McHenry and Will counties, and
is providing staff assistance as a means of advancing the plan?s implementation; and

WHEREAS, the County and CMAP have agreed on the general contents of a Memorandum of Understanding
and a Scope of Services that will guide staff assistance services to be provided by 

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY OF COOK:

Section 1: the Board of Commissioners supports this project which provides assistance in the completion of the
North Cook Unincorporated Areas Plan.

Section 2: the Board of Commissioners accepts the offer of staff assistance services by CMAP and recognizes that
these services are provided for the purpose of advancing the implementation of GO TO 2040.

Page 5 of 5

Section 3: the Board of Commissioners authorizes staff to ?nalize and execute a Memorandum of Understanding
with the attached Scope of Services.

Section 4: the Board of Commissioners recognizes that provisions that govern the administration of staff assistance
services, and, if necessary, the discontinuance of such services, are included in the Memorandum of
Understanding.

Section 5: This resolution shall be effective as of the date of its adoption.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Resolution

be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (3)
Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to adjourn the

meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

 

 

Ayes: Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Sims and Tobolski (2)

Respectfully submi 
Cbair??van efretary

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 6 of 6

