The Honorable,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE
Public Hearing

May 14, 2008

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

Court Reporter:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Beavers, Commissioners Butler, Claypool,
Daley, Moreno, Quigley, Sims and Suffredin (9)

Commissioners Gorman, Goslin, Maldonado, Murphy, Peraica, Schneider,
Silvestri and Steele (8)

Mr. Earl Dunlap Transitional Administrator for the JTDC, Honorable Timothy C.
Evans, Chief Judge, Jonathan A. Rothstein, Acting Chief of the Bureau of
Human Resources

Anthony Lisanti, C.P.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Criminal Justice of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice for a public hearing on Wednesday, May 14, 2008 at the hour of 10:00 AM.
in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:

293372

REQUESTING A MEETING OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUES AT THE JUVENILE TEMPORARY DETENTION
CENTER (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution
sponsored by Joseph Mario Moreno, County Commissioner.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

 

WHEREAS, the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) has
been under duress going back several years; and

WHEREAS, on August 14, 2007, the court appointed Mr. Earl Dunlap as
Transitional Administrator for the JTDC in preparation for the transfer of the
facility to the Office of the Chief Judge; and

WHEREAS, in light of recent media reports and issues outlined in Mr. Dunlap?s
most recent update to the Board and that appear to hinder progress towards
compliance with the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).

CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 14, 2008

PAGE 2

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby request that a meeting of the Criminal Justice
Committee be scheduled as soon as possible to address the issues at the JTDC
mentioned in the report and in the interest of protecting the well-being of both
the residents and the employees at the center; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Mr. Earl L. Dunlap, Chief Judge Timothy C.
Evans and Jonathan A. Rothstein appear before the Committee to address
these concerns and to collectively find ways to resolve them.

*Referred to the committee on Criminal Justice on 4/9/08.

Mr. Earl Dunlap, Transitional Administrator of the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC)
thanked Chairman Collins and the Honorable Timothy C. Evans, Chief Judge for appearing at
the federal court hearings in August. Chairman Collins and the Chief Judge Evans have been
aggressive in stepping up at the JTDC.

Mr. Dunlap stated he is committed to transparency which means there is nothing to hide at the
JTDC. The first report he submitted to the federal court dealt with the dysfunction at the JTDC.
The first couple of months focused on developing a table of organization and the 2008 budget
submission.

Mr. Dunlap stated new procedures have been implemented which are important to the children.
One is the due process hearings for violating the rules. The JTDC established four staff
positions to conduct due process hearings and to investigate any wrong doings going on at the
JTDC including physical and sexual abuse of children. The due process hearing procedures
were explained to the staff; although some staff members were on the defensive. Many staff
members responded in a positive way.

In the year of 2008 there have been 50 internal investigations. A staff person was alleged to
have physically abused a resident at the JTDC was placed in a non-contact situation. This staff
member is removed from any kind of direct and continuant supervision of children until the
investigation is completed. The vast majority of the investigations have come back as
unsubstantiated, and no staff was immediately put back to work. In those instances where they
were substantiated, the appropriate disciplinary action was taken. The JTDC had an enormous
number of staff members placed on "non-contact," ?stop orders? and
remove from the building? until the situations were resolved. This process has worked
effectively. The staff has come to understand throughout the JTDC that abusing the children
will not be tolerated.

In the year of 2007 the budget had four 462 staff members and in 2008 the Cook County Board
approved an increase to 567.

The JTDC has developed a 160 hour curriculum for all staff members, including new
employees. The JTDC has developed an eighty hour leadership training curriculum for middle
managers and managers.

In January the JTDC will transfer intake screening, business and payroll functions over to the
Chief Judge's Office to maximize resources and minimize unnecessary duplication.

CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 14, 2008

PAGE 3

Commissioner Moreno asked about the security firm Wackenhut. He inquired whether the firm
has ever been involved with juvenile detention facilities.

Mr. Dunlap responded that Wackenhut's reputation is not the greatest in the world. He stated
that problems have occurred in Florida, Louisiana, Michigan and several other states and
jurisdictions related to the juvenile population. He added that he has been an adversary of
Wackenhut and is very familiar with the firm. The firm is only allowed to be posted in the
schools to provide security in halls and corridors and to supervise on the night shift and handle
night watch. The firm is not engaging with the children. Wackenhut staff will receive eighty
hours of training from the JTDC staff members and an extensive background check is required
of each Wackenhut staff member

Commissioner Beavers inquired regarding the hiring practices at the Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center. He stated that the Bureau of Human Resource had posted 15 positions, and
asked whether Mr. Dunlap had hired staff.

Mr. Dunlap responded that he has hired no one.

Commissioner Beavers inquired if any interviews were conducted for any open positions at the
JTDC.

Mr. Dunlap responded over a hundred interviews have been conducted but that hiring is a very
complex process.

Commissioner Beavers requested that Mr. Dunlap refrain from blaming Cook County for the
inability to hire for open positions at the JTDC.

Mr. Dunlap agreed to quit engaging in such conversation.

Commissioner Quigley inquired on the overcrowding and reduction of population at the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center.

Judge Evans responded that the State Legislature and the Governor Blagojevich placed the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center under his care approximately one hundred eighty days
from the effective date of legislation on January 1, 2008. He stated that technically the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center will be under his care at the end of June. He believed that at the
time the legislation was passed it was not assumed a transition would take place during that
time and after that time. The federal court has indicated the Transitional Administrator has a
right to do certain things. The phrase the Federal Court used is ?to bring the Cook County
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center into substantial compliance with three items: (1) the
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), (2) the Agreed Supplemental Order (A80), (3) and the
Modified implementation Plan Judge Evans assumed that once those have substantially
been complied with, the Transitional Administrator would be prepared to turn the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center over to the Chief Judge?s Office.

The Chief Judge's Office has regular meetings with the Transitional Administrator so that
change occurs even before that time elapse; the Transitional Administrator has turned over
certain ancillary functions to the Chief Judge?s Office in anticipation that the Chief Judge's Office
may carry out those functions better. These include certain contractual functions providing food,

CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 14, 2008

PAGE 4

procurement and MIS systems. In addition, the Transitional Administrator is asking the Chief
Judges? Office to assist his office with training and other aspects of testing. The Chief Judge?s
Office should provide alternatives to detention for many of the children who are housed in the
detention center. The Chief Judge's Office provides an evening reporting system and that
alternative has resulted in 93% of the children who go through the evening reporting program
never getting involved in delinquency activities again. The evening reporting system described
is recognized by the Congress of the United States. The Chief Judge?s Office would like to get
a substantial number of children who have not engaged in violent conduct out of the detention
center into other alternatives.

Commissioner Daley asked if the alternative programs were increased whether there would be
a decrease in the population.

Judge Evans stated that he would like for the County of Cook to put a comparable amount of
money in the alternative programs that is put in the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. He
has asked the State of Illinois for a fair share of funds for the alternative programs.

The Community Advisory Committee for the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center provided a
presentation to the Criminal Justice Committee. (See Attachment 

Doctor Beverly Butler? Community Advisory Committee
Kenneth Schmetterer Community Advisory Committee
Katina Cummings Committee Advisory Committee
Sharon Grant Community Advisory Committee
Darthula L. Young Community Advisory Committee



Chairman Collins asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1) George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
2) Sheldon Smith Metropolitan Area Group for Igniting Civilization
3) Damian Turner Concerned Citizen

Chairman Collins thanked everyone in attendance and concluded the meeting.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved to Receive and File
Communication No. 293372. The motion carried.

CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 14, 2008

PAGE 5

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims moved to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER
NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 293372 Receive and File

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Criminal Justice

Caleb!"
Earl nCollins,Chairman "hf

e?pewB DeLeon, Secretary

 

The complete audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the
Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room 567. Chicago, IL 60602.

 

   

Community Advisory Commluee forth
Juvenile Tem orary Detention Cente

 

 

 

 

resentation to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners
May 14,. 2008

Agenda

 

 

- Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) Update
ChiefJudge Timothy Evans
Transitional Administrator, Earl Dunlap

- Community Advisory Committee Background
Dr. Beverly Butler

- Education Committee

. Health Committee

- De-lnstitutionalization Committee

. Technology Committee

 

Background

 

 

The Community Advisory Committee for the JTDC was formed in
December, 2007 by Cook County Commissioner Earlean Collins,
County Chair of the Criminal Justice Committee.

The purpose of the advisory committee is to:

- involve community representatives, organizations and the business
community into the planning of activities and actions taken at the 

- offer advice on ways to place our youth into productive environments
that best meet their needs; and

give information on community resources and programs designed to
hinder our youth from entering deeper into the criminal justice system.

The committee meets and has created four standing committees:

. Educa?on
- Health
De- institutionalization

- Technology 3

 

Background cont?d

    

in LEIin?, 

The Community Advisory Committee works in partnership with Earl
Dunlap,,the Transitional Administrator, and Chief Judge Timothy
Evans to assist them in their efforts to meet the needs of our
young people in detention services.

 

WE applaud Commissioner Collins for her foresight to involve the
voices of the community in this important process and for her
commitment to our youth.

WE applaud the Transitional Administrator and Chief Judge for
their commitment and willingness to work hand-in-hand with us
to develop positive detention services.

 

 

Education Committee

 

 

Focus at JTDC:
Review and present options in which best practices from ?detention
education models? are integrated into the JTDC changes:

Revamp and revise the current education model to meet the needs of
detention education, which differs from traditional neighborhood

schools;

Focus of Alternative Forms of Education
Offer alternative forms to youth who transition from detention servicesand
to at-risk youth who can be diverted from entering the detention center.

Target alternative education on two groups of youth:
Youth who are referred from public schools to the detention center;

Youth who are in the community who are out of school and may
likely go to the detention center

 

 

Health Committee

   

2:15:51 Lab; 2-. 
. i. ., 

 

 

To identify and integrate health issues of youth into current
planning implementation efforts to:

Reduce the population of detained young people

Reconfigure education programming

Design and implement information/data reporting system

To improve health and education outcomes for youth in the
juvenile justice system

Explore design implementation of an integrated health 
educational assessment

 

Health Committee cont?d

 

 

- Review costs benefits of electronic medical and
educational records.
- identify sharing of pertinent health education information
Within juvenile justice system
Between related child serving systems

- Assist in identifying alternative educational models that
integrate health status/outcomes

Support recommendations by Court-Involved Girls
Advocates Group to support individualized and gender-
responsive health interventions programming

 

 

 

De-lnstitutionalization Com'nittee

 

 

Ph?osophy

- Juvenile Detention is a system of services which may range
from the least restrictive community based supervision to the
most restrictive form of detentiOn secure care.

Missmn
. To expand the Cook County detention services to include a
network of youth detention placements which are dependent

upon the needs of the youth.
Environmental Catorgies
- Least Restrictive: Youth Leadership Services
Youth empowerment program
Builds self-esteem and personal responsibility

 

 

 

De-Institutionalization Committee
oonfd.

 

 

- Least Restrictive: Clinical Services
Offers services for mental illnesses

- Restrictive: Foster Care
Includes Foster Home Placement, Specialized Services and Clinical Support

- More Restrictive: Residential Treatment Center
24hour staff supervision; low staff ratios
Dorm structure

- Most Restrictive: Cook County Juvenile Detention Center

 

  

 

Technology Committee

 

 

 

DSI system upgrade and implementation July 2008
System Modules Interfaces
Staff Training
Additional Equipment Requirements
Server 4 (hardware) - ordered
Imaging (hardware)
Oracle Data Base (hardware)
Report Writer (hardware)
Staff Requirement
Desktop Manager reporting to the CJO
System Administrator reporting to the CJO
Business System Analyst? Reporting to. the TA

10_

 

Technology Committee cont.4.-. . .., . 

 

u: r?l' .. . .. -.-.-- up;
- - . . - 

 

Option
. Retain independent qualified/experienced contractorto perform:
Operation Analysis
As is/To Be Assessment
Review Current Policies and Procedures
Develop Policies and Procedures Changes
Operation and System GAP Analysis
Operation Process Flow
Develop Training Plan
Business Transformation Plan
Change Management Methodology and Implementation

 

?11

