Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Business and Economic Development Committee
Monday, December 21, 2015

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit
their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise
when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use
vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-0715
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 12/15/2015

15-6384
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, DEBORAH SIMS, STANLEY MOORE and JOAN
PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CALUMET ENTERPRISE ZONE
AN ORDINANCE FOR TO AMEND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ANCURRENT EXISTING CALUMET
ENTERPRISE ZONE SUBJECT TO THE BY ALTERING ITS BOUNDARIES, INCLUDING
Page 1 of 11

 ADDITIONAL UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, AND ESTABLISHING A NEW SUCCESSOR
ENTERPRISE ZONE ACT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq) provides for the creation of enterprise
zones to encourage private sector investments in economically distressed areas throughout the State; and
WHEREAS, The City of Calumet City, The Village of Dolton, The Village of Lansing, The Village of Riverdale,
The Village of South Holland, The Village of Thornton (collectively the “Municipalities”) and the County of Cook,
a body Politic and Corporate of the State of Illinois (“the County”), are organized and existing under the laws of
that the State of Illinois. Each have areas within their respective legal boundaries that are economically distressed
and would benefit from private sector investments under the Enterprise Zone Act; and
WHEREAS, it is determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the County and Municipalities to establish
an Enterprise Zone and encourage private sector investments within said Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, prior to filing of an application for approval of the designation of an Enterprise Zone under the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act, it is required that the County and Municipalities adopt an Ordinance designating the proposed
Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, the Calumet Enterprise Zone currently exists by virtue of certification by the State Illinois, under the
Illinois Enterprise Act scheduled to expire on December 31, 2017; and
WHEREAS, the current existing Calumet Enterprise Zone involved, prior to the herein amendment, the City of
Calumet City, The Village of Dolton and The Village of Riverdale as its designating municipalities; and
WHEREAS, all of the aforesaid Municipalities and County have joined in the collective pursuit to amend the
current existing Calumet Enterprise Zone by the addition of certain areas, the inclusion of the aforesaid
Municipalities and County as designating units of local government and establish a new successor Enterprise Zone.
These efforts are subject to the respective approvals of the governing bodies of the aforesaid Municipalities and
County.
BE IT ORDAINED, by Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14, Community Development, Article
IV, Sections 14-39 through 14-47 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted amended as follows:
ARTICLE IV. CALUMET ENTERPRISE ZONE
Sec. 14-39. Establishment Amendment to the existing enterprise zone and establishment of an enterprise
zone designation.
In accordance with the Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq.), the Board of Commissioners hereby establishes
an Enterprise Zone in cooperation with the City of Calumet City, The Village of Lansing, The Village of Riverdale,
The Village of South Holland, The Village of Thornton and the County of Cook.
The existing Calumet Enterprise Zone is hereby amended to include The Village of Lansing, The Village of South
Holland, The Village of Thornton, and The County of Cook as additional designated units of local government of
said Enterprise Zone. The area of this enterprise zone is also hereby altered to consist of the area described in the
map EXHIBIT A and the legal description EXHIBIT B, attached hereto. This area of the amended zone is within
the 15 square mile limit required for enterprise zones that include more than 4 jurisdictions per the Illinois Enterprise
Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/4). EXHIBITS A and B are incorporated herein by reference and become part of this
Section as if fully stated herein. These amendments shall not be effective until and unless the Illinois Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity upon application approves the amended designating Ordinance, issues an
amended certification for the existing Calumet Enterprise Zone, records a certified copy of the amended Ordinance
with Cook County Recorder of Deeds and files the same with the Illinois Secretary of State.
Page 2 of 11

 For the purposes of a successor Enterprise Zone to the existing Calumet Enterprise Zone, an Enterprise Zone is
hereby declared and established as an Enterprise Zone pursuant to authority granted by the Illinois Enterprise Zone
Act, as amended. The Enterprise Zone is named and designated as the Calumet Enterprise Zone; said Enterprise
Zone is further subject and contingent on subject to the approval by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Board and
certification by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. This Enterprise Zone is hereby
named and designated as the Calumet Enterprise Zone.
Sec. 14-40. Term.
The term of the proposed successor Enterprise Zone is 15 years, subject to the effective date of certification of the
Enterprise Zone and the potential 10-year renewal prescribed under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act.
Sec. 14-41. Description of zone.
The area of the proposed designated successor Enterprise Zone is outlined in the map provided as EXHIBIT A and
its boundaries are set down in the legal description in EXHIBIT B, which exhibits these EXHIBITS are attached
to this Ordinance and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-42. Qualifications.
The County and the Municipalities hereby declare and affirm that the Zone successor Enterprise Zone’s Area is
qualified for designation as an Enterprise Zone in accordance with the provisions of the Act, as described herein
and it is FOUND that:
(a) The Zone Area is a contiguous area;
(b) The Zone Area comprises an area larger than one-half square miles and not more than Fifteen square miles in
total area;
(c) The Zone Area is a depressed area;
(d) The Zone Area addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one (1) municipality and
adjacent unincorporated areas of the County;
(e) The Zone Area exceeds the minimum requirement of meeting 3 of the 10 criteria specified in the Illinois
Enterprise Act (20ILCS 655/4 (f);
(f) On the 28TH day of October, 2015, a public hearing was conducted pursuant to a Notice duly published in a
newspaper of general circulation, within the Zone Area, not more than 20 days nor less than 5 days before the
hearing date; and
(g) The Zone Area satisfies any additional criteria stated in the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act or established by the
Rules of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
All of the above stated FINDINGS in Sec. 14-43 (a) through (f) are supported, sustained and consistent with
the substantive materials contained in EXHIBIT C, attached hereto, and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-43. Incentives.
The State of Illinois, Counties and Municipalities offer incentives designed to encourage businesses in the private
sector to locate or expand within an Enterprise Zone, subject to terms, conditions, rules and legal limitations in the
law:
Page 3 of 11

 (a)

State Incentives

• 1. Sales tax exemption. A 6.25 percent state sales tax exemption is permitted on building materials to be used in an
Enterprise Zone. Materials must be permanently affixed to the property and must be purchased from a qualified retailer.
• 2. Enterprise zone machinery and equipment consumables/pollution control facilities sales tax exemption. A
6.25 percent state sales tax exemption on purchases of tangible personal property to be used in the manufacturing or
assembly process or in the operation of a pollution control facility within an Enterprise Zone is available. Eligibility is based
on a business making an investment in an Enterprise Zone of at least $5 million in qualified property that creates a minimum
of 200 fulltime-equivalent jobs, a business investing at least $40 million in a zone and retaining at least 2,000 jobs, or a
business investing at least $40 million in a zone which causes the retention of at least 80 percent of the jobs existing on the
date it is certified to receive the exemption.
• 3. Enterprise zone utility tax exemption. A state utility tax exemption on gas, electricity and the Illinois Commerce
Commission's administrative charge and telecommunication excise tax is available to businesses located In Enterprise Zones.
Eligible businesses must make an investment of at least $5 million in qualified property that creates a minimum of 200 fulltime equivalent jobs in Illinois, an investment of $20 million that retains at least 1,000 full-time-equivalent jobs, or an
investment of $175 million that creates 150 full-time equivalent jobs in Illinois. The majority of the jobs created must
be located In the Enterprise Zone where the investment occurs.
• 4. Enterprise zone investment tax credit. A state investment tax credit of 0.5 percent is allowed a taxpayer who
invests in qualified property in a Zone. Qualified property includes machinery, equipment and buildings. The credit
may be carried forward for up to five years. This credit is in addition to the regular 0.5 percent Investment tax credit,
which is available throughout the state, and up to 0.5 percent credit for increased employment over the previous
year.
• 5. Contribution deduction. Businesses may deduct double the value of a cash or in-kind contribution to an
approved project of a Designated Zone Organization from taxable income.
(b) Local Incentives and Fees
Local governments, through the assistance and coordination of the Enterprise Zone Administrators, may provide a
variety of local incentives to further encourage economic growth and investment within enterprise zones. The incentives
offered are determined by counties Cook County and the municipalities. The following local Enterprise Zone incentives
are hereby offered:

1. Abatement or reimbursement of 50% of the municipal portion of property taxes on new improvements on for
industrial or, commercial, or institutional properties for during the first five years following the completion of
these improvements. This benefit will not be applicable if the project investor is also the recipient of tax relief
for this property under the terms of a tax increment finance (TIF) agreement or other substantial property tax
abatement provided by a unit of local government.
2. Waiver of 50% of initial building permit or zoning application fees on for industrial or, commercial, or
institutional projects.
3. The Enterprise Zone Administrator will provide officials of municipalities the County and Municipalities that
are signatories to the Intergovernmental Agreement, which is Attachment D to this Ordinance, with certain
written documentation and materials relative to additional incentives, including public or not for profit
financing and workforce development programs, which municipal the officials may make available to the
project developer, and other interested individuals. There is no representation that the available documents
and materials include all incentives and program programs available to the project.
Page 4 of 11

 The Zone Administrator shall file a copy of the Enterprise Zone's fee schedule with the Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity by April 1 of each year. The Zone Administrator may charge up to 0.5% (one half of
one percent) of the cost of building materials of the project associated with the Enterprise Zone, provided that a
maximum fee of no more than $50,000 is permitted (20 ILCS 655/8.2 (c). To the extent that charges by the Zone
Administrator do not meet the full operating expenses of the Enterprise Zone, the Municipalities and the County,
that are signatories to this agreement, will collectively meet these expenses. However, no signatory to this
Agreement will be obligated to contribute more than $5,000 per year toward these Enterprise Zone operating
expenses.
Sec. 14-44.

Zone administrator.

The Zone Administrator is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Enterprise Zone including the
following duties:
(a)

Supervise the implementation of the provisions of this Intergovernmental Agreement and the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act.

(b)

Act as a liaison between the Counties, Municipalities, the Illinois Department of Commerce
Economic Opportunity, Designated Zone Organizations, and other State, Federal and local agencies,
whether public or private.

(c)

Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the Enterprise Zone Programs and submit evaluative reports at
least annually to the Council.

(d)

Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but not limited to, housing,
community and economic development, small business, financial assistance and employment
training within the Enterprise Zone.

(e)

Recommend qualified Designated Zone Organizations to the Enterprise Zone Governing Council
(the Council).

(f)

Have such other such duties as specified by the Council, including the appointment of authorized
personnel as appropriate, to assure the smooth operation of the Enterprise Zone.

Sec. 14-45. Intergovernmental agreement.
The existing Enterprise Zone and the successor Enterprise Zone shall be governed, managed and operated in
accordance with the Amended Intergovernmental Agreement between the County (s) and the Municipalities as set
forth in EXHIBIT D, which is attached hereto and incorporated into this Ordinance, by reference. The attached
Intergovernmental Agreement (EXHIBIT D) was presented to the legislative body of Cook County and its attorney
for review. The President is hereby authorized to execute this Agreement, on behalf of the County of Cook.
Further, the President or his or her designee is authorized to sign all documents reasonably necessary in the
furtherance of the Joint Application Applications for said approval of the amendments to the existing Enterprise
Zone, to be filed with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
Page 5 of 11

 Sec. 14-46. Severability.
This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered severable and the invalidity of any section clause,
paragraph, sentence or provision of this Ordinance will not affect the validity of any other portion of this Ordinance.
Sec. 14-47.

Publication and effective date.

Cook County is hereby authorized to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This Ordinance shall be in full
force and effect from after its passage, approval and publication subject to approval, certification and recording as
required by law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 11/18/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

15-6501
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, STANLEY MOORE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY and
DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioners
LINCOLN AND 394 CORRIDOR ENTERPRISE ZONE
AN ORDINANCE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ENTERPRISE ZONE SUBJECT TO THE
ENTERPRISE ZONE ACT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. TO AMEND THE EXISTING FORD
HEIGHTS/SAUK VILLAGE ENTERPRISE ZONE BY ALTERING ITS BOUNDARIES AND
INCLUDING ADDITIONAL UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, TO ESTABLISH NEW INCENTIVES
AND TO RENAME THE AMENDED ENTERPRISE ZONE AS THE LINCOLN & 394 CORRIDOR
ENTERPRISE ZONE.
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq) provides for the creation of enterprise
zones to encourage private sector investments in economically distressed areas throughout the State; and
WHEREAS, The Village of Beecher, The City of Chicago Heights, The Village of Crete, The Village of Ford
Heights, The Village of Glenwood, The Village of Olympia Fields, The Village of Sauk Village, The Village of
South Chicago Heights, The Village of Steger (the “Municipalities”), The County of Cook, and the County of Will
are organized and existing under the laws of that State of Illinois. Each have areas within their respective legal
boundaries that are economically distressed and would benefit from private sector investments under the Enterprise
Zone Act; and
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Municipalities and Counties have joined in the collective pursuit of a joint Enterprise
Zone, subject to approval of their respective governing bodies; and
WHEREAS, it is determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of these Counties and Municipalities to
establish an Enterprise Zone and encourage private sector investments within said Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, the Ford Heights/Sauk Village Enterprise Zone currently exists by virtue of certification by the State
of Illinois, under the Illinois Enterprise Act and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the current existing Ford Heights/Sauk Village Corridor Enterprise Zone involves The Village of Ford
Heights and the Village of Sauk Village as its designating municipalities and affords an opportunity to expand in
scope of territory and involvement of additional units of local governments; and
Page 6 of 11

 WHEREAS, the aforesaid Municipalities and Counties have joined in the collective pursuit to amend the current
existing Ford Heights/Sauk Village Enterprise Zone by the alteration of areas included within the Zone and the
inclusion of the aforesaid Municipalities and Counties as designating units of local government. These efforts are
subject to the respective approvals of the governing bodies of each of the aforesaid Municipalities and Counties;
and
WHEREAS, prior to filing of an application for approval of the amendment to designation of an existing Enterprise
Zone, under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act, it is required that the Counties and Municipalities adopt an Ordinance
amending designating the existing proposed Enterprise Zone; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14, Community Development,
Article VI, Lincoln and 394 Corridor Enterprise Zone, Sections 14-59 through 14-67 of the Cook County Code is
hereby enacted as Follows:
ARTICLE VI. LINCOLN AND 394 CORRIDOR ENTERPRISE ZONE
Sec. 14-59.

Establishment of enterprise zone and enterprise zone designation.

In accordance with the Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq.), the Board of Commissioners hereby establishes
an Enterprise Zone in cooperation with The existing Ford Heights/Sauk Village is hereby amended to include The
Village of Beecher, The City of Chicago Heights, The Village of Crete, The Village of Ford Heights, The Village
of Glenwood, The Village of Olympia Fields, The Village of Sauk Village, The Village of South Chicago Heights,
The Village of Steger (the “Municipalities”), The County of Cook, and the County of Will as designated units of
local government of said Enterprise Zone. Each have areas within their respective legal boundaries that are
economically distressed and would benefit from private sector investments under the Enterprise Zone Act. This
Additionally, the area of this Enterprise Zone is also hereby altered to consist of the area described in the map
EXHIBIT A and the legal description EXHIBIT B, attached hereto. This area of the amended zone is within the
15 square mile limit required for enterprise zones that include more than 4 jurisdictions per declared and established
pursuant to authority granted by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/4). EXHIBITS A and B are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and become part of this Section as if fully stated herein. This amended existing.
The Enterprise Zone shall be is named and known designated as the Lincoln and 394 Corridor Enterprise Zone.
These amendments shall not be effective until; said Enterprise Zone is further subject and unless the Illinois
Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity upon application approves this amended designating
Ordinance, issues an amended certification for the Lincoln and 394 Corridor Enterprise Zone and record a certified
copy of the amended Ordinance with Cook County Recorder of Deeds and file the same with the Illinois Secretary
of State.

Sec. 14-60.

Term.

The term of the amended Enterprise Zone remains unchanged is 15 years, subject to the effective date of certification
of the Enterprise Zone and will expire on December 31, 2021, unless amended or otherwise lawfully changed the
potential 10-year renewal prescribed under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act.

Sec. 14-61.

Description of zone.

The area of the designated Enterprise Zone is outlined in a map in EXHIBIT A and described in the legal description
in EXHIBIT B, which exhibits are attached to this Ordinance and incorporated herein by reference.
Page 7 of 11

 Sec. 14-62. Qualifications.
The Counties County and the Municipalities have declared hereby declare and affirmed affirm that the amended
Enterprise Zone Area is qualified for designation as an Enterprise Zone in accordance with the provisions of the
Act, and FOUND that as described herein:
(a) The Zone Area is a contiguous area;
(b) The Zone Area comprises an area larger than one-half square miles and not more than Fifteen square miles in
total area;
(c) The Zone Area is a depressed area;
(d) The Zone Area addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one (1) municipality and
adjacent unincorporated areas of the County;
(e) The Zone Area exceeds the minimum requirement of meeting 3 of the 10 criteria specified in the Illinois
Enterprise Act (20ILCS 655/4 (f);
(f) On the 29th day of October, 2015, a public hearing was conducted pursuant to a Notice duly published in a
newspaper of general circulation, within the Zone Area, not more than 20 days nor less than 5 days before the
hearing date;
(g) The Zone Area satisfies any additional criteria stated in the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act or established by the
Rules of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity;
All of the above stated FINDINGS are supported, sustained and consistent with the substantive materials contained
in EXHIBIT C, attached here to, and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-63. Incentives.
The State of Illinois, Counties and Municipalities offer incentives designed to encourage businesses in the private
sector to locate or expand within an Enterprise Zone, subject to terms, conditions, rules and legal limitations in the
law:
STATE INCENTIVES
(a) State Incentives
1. Sales Tax Exemption - A 6.25 percent state sales tax exemption is permitted on building materials to be used in
an Enterprise Zone. Materials must be permanently affixed to the property and must be purchased from a qualified
retailer.
2. Enterprise Zone Machinery and Equipment Consumables/Pollution Control Facilities Sales Tax Exemption - A
6.25 percent state sales tax exemption on purchases of tangible personal property to be used in the manufacturing
or assembly process or in the operation of a pollution control facility within an Enterprise Zone is available.
Eligibility is based on a business making an investment in an Enterprise Zone of at least $5 million in qualified
property that creates a minimum of 200 fulltime-equivalent jobs, a business investing at least $40 million in a zone
and retaining at least 2,000 jobs, or a business investing at least $40 million in a zone which causes the retention of
at least 80 percent of the jobs existing on the date it is certified to receive the exemption.
Page 8 of 11

 3. Enterprise Zone Utility Tax Exemption. A state utility tax exemption on gas, electricity and the Illinois
Commerce Commission's administrative charge and telecommunication excise tax is available to businesses located
In Enterprise Zones. Eligible businesses must make an investment of at least $5 million in qualified property that
creates a minimum of 200 full-time equivalent jobs in Illinois, an investment of $20 million that retains at least
1,000 full-time-equivalent jobs, or an investment of $175 million that creates 150 full-time equivalent jobs in
Illinois. The majority of the jobs created must be located In the Enterprise Zone where the investment occurs.
4. Enterprise Zone Investment Tax Credit. A state investment tax credit of 0.5 percent is allowed a taxpayer who
invests in qualified property in a Zone. Qualified property includes machinery, equipment and buildings. The credit
may be carried forward for up to five years. This credit is in addition to the regular 0.5 percent Investment tax credit,
which is available throughout the state, and up to 0.5 percent credit for increased employment over the previous
year.
5. Contribution Deduction. Businesses may deduct double the value of a cash or in-kind contribution to an
approved project of a Designated Zone Organization from taxable income.
(b)

Local Incentives and Fees.

Local governments, through the assistance and coordination of the Enterprise Zone Administrators, may provide a
variety of local incentives to further encourage economic growth and investment within enterprise zones. The
incentives offered are determined by counties and municipalities. The following local Enterprise Zone incentives
are hereby offered:
1. Abatement or reimbursement of 50% of the municipal portion of property taxes on new improvements for
industrial, commercial, or institutional properties during the first five years following the completion of these
improvements. This benefit will not be applicable if the project investor is also the recipient of tax relief for this
property under the terms of a tax increment finance (TIF) agreement or other substantial property tax abatement for
this property provided by a unit of local government.
2. Waiver of 50% of initial building permit fees for industrial, commercial, or institutional projects.
3. The Enterprise Zone will provide officials of the Counties and the Municipalities that are signatories to the
Amended Intergovernmental Agreement, which is Attachment D to this Ordinance, with certain written
documentation and materials relative to additional incentives, including public or not-for-profit financing and
workforce development programs, which municipal officials may make available to the project developer, and other
interested individuals. There is no representation that the available documents and materials include all incentives
and programs program available to the project.
The Zone Administrator shall file a copy of the amended Enterprise Zone's fee schedule with the Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity by April 1 of each year. The Zone Administrator may charge up to 0.5%
(one half of one percent) of the cost of building materials of the project associated with the Enterprise Zone,
provided that a maximum fee of no more than $50,000 is permitted (20 ILCS 655/8.2 (c).
Sec. 14-64. Zone administrator.
The Zone Administrator will be is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the amended Enterprise Zone,
including the following duties:
(a)
Supervise the implementation of the provisions of this Intergovernmental Agreement and the Illinois Enterprise
Zone Act.

Page 9 of 11

 (b)

Act as a liaison between the Counties, Municipalities, the Illinois Department of Commerce Economic
Opportunity, Designated Zone Organizations, and other State, Federal and local agencies, whether public or private.

(c)

Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the Enterprise Zone Programs and submit evaluative reports at least annually
to the Council.

(d)

Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but not limited to, housing, community and
economic development, small business, financial assistance and employment training within the Enterprise Zone.

(e)

Recommend qualified Designated Zone Organizations to the Enterprise Zone Governing Council (the Council).

(f)

Have other such duties as specified by the Council, including the appointment of authorized personnel as
appropriate, to assure the smooth operation of the Enterprise Zone.
Sec. 14-65. Intergovernmental agreement.
The amended Enterprise Zone shall be governed, managed and operated in accordance with the Amended
Intergovernmental Agreement between the Counties and Municipalities as set forth in EXHIBIT D, which is
attached hereto and incorporated into this Ordinance by reference. The proposed amendments to said Ford
Heights/Sauk Village Enterprise Zone is binding only if approved in whole or part by the Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity, including certification and recording as required under the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act. The Amended attached Intergovernmental Agreement (EXHIBIT D) was presented to the
legislative body of Cook County and its attorney for review. The President is hereby authorized to execute this
Agreement, on behalf of the County of Cook. Further, the President or his or her designee is authorized to sign all
documents reasonably necessary in the furtherance of the Joint Application for said amended Enterprise Zone, to
be filed with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
Sec. 14-66.

Severability.

This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered severable and the invalidity of any section clause,
paragraph, sentence or provision of this Ordinance will not affect the validity of any other portion of this Ordinance.
Sec. 14-67.

Publication and effective date.

Cook County is hereby authorized to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form. This Ordinance shall be in full
force and effect from after its passage, approval and publication as subject to approval, certification and recording
required by law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History:11/18/15Board of Commissioners referred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

Page 10 of 11

 _________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Murphy
Arroyo Jr., Butler, Gainer, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Steele

Page 11 of 11

 