Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia
M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, President Kathleen
Therese Meany
Thursday, November 7, 2013

1:00 PM

Board Room

DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
Keri K. Steele, Chairman of the Committee on Budget presiding, called the
meeting to order at 1:00 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; and
Kathleen Therese Meany

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

13-1348

November 7, 2013

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Kathleen Therese Meany and presiding Kari K .
Steele, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Employment, a Special
Meeting will be held on Thursday, November 7, 2013, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board
Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to present and accept the 2014 Executive
Director’s Budget Recommendations and related changes.
The Executive Director’s Budget Recommendations is available for review on
the District’s website, www.mwrd.org <http://www.mwrd.org>.
Attached for your information is the 2014 Budget Schedule.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
Attachments:

2014 Budget Schedule
2014 Departmental presentations
2014 ED Budget presentation
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Agenda item be Adopted. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of 9 ayes No nays

2

13-1389

Authority to Accept the Executive Director’s 2014 Budget Recommendations
and the Attached Changes

Attachments:

Consolidated BF-19 Package Attachment.pdf
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Patrick D. Thompson,
that this Agenda item be Adopted. 6 ayes - No nays

Aye:

6-

Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D.
Thompson; Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

3-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
David St. Pierre, Executive Director, presented the 2014 Budget Recommendations and
each department made their respective presentations.

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 7, 2013

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santose, seconded by Debra Shore, that this
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 7, 2013, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 7, 2013

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 