JUNE 16, 2005
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
There will be a public hearing meeting of the Finance Labor Subcommittee of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County on Tuesday, June 21, 2005 at the hour of 3:00 P.M. in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:
271173

URGING THE PASSAGE OF THE SECURE AMERICA AND ORDERLY
IMMIGRATION ACT OF 2005 (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed
Resolution Sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, County Commissioner.
I am submitting this Resolution as a New Item at the May 17, 2005 Board Meeting to
be referred to the Labor Subcommittee. The Resolution urges the passage of a
comprehensive immigration reform initiative known as “The Secure America and
Orderly Immigration Act of 2005.”
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the United States were founded by immigrants, who have traveled from
around the world to seek a better life; and
WHEREAS, the United States has an undocumented population of eleven million
immigrants, including half a million in Illinois, more than 300,000 of which reside in
Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County’s undocumented immigrants fill key roles in our economy
such as paying taxes (including contributions to Social Security that they cannot
receive back), raising families, and contributing to our schools, churches,
neighborhoods and communities; and
WHEREAS, our current immigration system contributes to long backlogs, labor
abuses, countless deaths on the border and vigilante violence and is in dire need of
reform to meet the challenges of the 21st Century; and
WHEREAS, any comprehensive reform must involve a path to citizenship for these
hardworking immigrants, as well as reunification of families and a safe and orderly
process for enabling willing immigrant workers to fill essential jobs in our economy and
ensure full labor rights; and
WHEREAS, U.S. Representative Luis Gutierrez has joined with U.S. Senators Edward
Kennedy of Massachusetts and John McCain of Arizona to offer a comprehensive
U.S. immigration reform law known as “The Secure America and Orderly Immigration
Act”; and
WHEREAS, the immigration initiative severely punishes illegal employment practices
while creating a path to earned permanent legal status for individuals who have been
working in the United States, paying taxes, obeying the law and learning English and
protecting workers by ensuring the right to change jobs, join a union and report
abusive employment situations; and
WHEREAS, modernizing our antiquated and dysfunctional immigration system will
uphold our nation’s basic values of fairness, equal opportunity and respect for the law.

 FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE COMMITTEE NOTICE
JUNE 21, 2005
PAGE 2
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the President and the Members of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners do hereby support comprehensive
immigration reform and memorialize the Illinois Congressional delegation to urge the
passage of “The Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act of 2005 (SB 1033 and
HB 2330)” that allows every hardworking, law-abiding individual to achieve the
American Dream; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be delivered to
the President of the United States, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the
President of the Senate and the Illinois Congressional Delegation.
*Referred to the Committee on Finance Labor Subcommittee on 5/17/05.

The public may testify at this meeting. Persons wishing to testify should give their name and the name
of any organization they are representing to the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room
567, County Building, Telephone: (312) 603-6127. Also you can register at the above location, at the
time of the meeting. Each organization will be limited to one speaker. Each speaker will be limited to 3
minutes. Speakers are requested to submit 30 copies of any written statement to the committee.

____________________________
Michelle Harris, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Murphy
Moreno
Butler, Gorman, Hansen, Maldonado, Sims

 