Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, July 19, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-4037
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/7/2017
17-4313
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular consent calendar meeting held on 6/6/2017.
17-4315
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

Page 1 of 3

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 19, 2017

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 6/7/2017.
17-3293
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE OF THE COOK
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2- Administration,

Article III - County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105(i). Board of
Commissioners; meetings of the Board of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.

***

(i) Public testimony. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at regular
and special meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those
individuals who have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any)
to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting on an electronically submitted “Record of
Committee Witness” form. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; and the Secretary will keep track of
the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Public Speakers shall indicate the
item that they are a proponent or opponent of and shall only speak to that item. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board. Failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
Individuals may submit a “Record of Committee Witness” form to the Secretary in support or opposition
to an item on any agenda without testifying in person. The “Record of Committee Witness” form shall
also allow for, but not mandate, the submission of a written statement in support of or in opposition to an
item on an agenda. The Secretary shall announce to each Committee whether any “Record of Committee
Witness” forms have been submitted, whether the forms support or oppose an item and any statements

Page 2 of 3

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 19, 2017

filed on those forms.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect 90 days after adoption.
Legislative History :

5/10/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Comm

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Daley
Members:Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, and Sims

Page 3 of 3

 