Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Agenda - Final

Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, June 21, 2012

9:30 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
Roll Call
Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

12-0792

Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago (the “District”) will hold a public hearing at 9:30 a.m. on the 21st day of
June 2012 in the Board Room in the Administrative Offices of the District , 100 East Erie
Street, Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public comments on
the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to issue not to exceed
$300,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds to provide funds required for
the replacing, remodeling, completing, altering, constructing and enlarging of sewage
treatment works, administrative buildings, water quality improvement projects, or flood
control facilities, and additions therefor, including, but not limited to, the construction of
pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet sewers, together with
the equipment, including air pollution equipment, and appurtenances thereto, to acquire
property, real, personal or mixed, necessary for said purposes, and for costs and
expenses for the acquisition of the sites and rights-of-way necessary thereto, and for
engineering expenses for designing and supervising the construction of such works and
other related and incidental expenses.
By order of Terrence J. O’Brien, the President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago .
Dated the 4th day of June 2012.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

The call of the meeting stated above and the foregoing agenda item is
hereby approved.
/s/ Terrence J. O'Brien
President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 6/14/2012

 Public Hearing
2

12-0891

Agenda - Final

June 21, 2012

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue Capital
Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed $300,000,000

Open Discussion
Adjournment

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 6/14/2012

 