COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF
COOK COUNTY
And Ex-Officio for the
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND
MEETING OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
33 N. DEARBORN STREET – SUITE 1000
Minutes for November 22, 2011 Meeting of the Investment Committee

1.

Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:30 a.m.
IC Members Present:
Staff Present:
Others Present:

2.

Mr. Clem Balanoff, Mr. Robert Benjamin, Ms. Alexis
Herrera, Mr. John Fitzgerald, and Mr. Patrick McFadden
D. Degnan, N. Hackett, M. Maratea, F. Vinzons, and D.
Walker
Mr. Brent Lewandowski – Incoming Trustee, M.P. Burns –
Burke, Burns & Pinelli, K. Dolsen, M. Joecken – Callan, G.
Fencik – Adams Street

Approval of October 25, 2011 Investment Committee Meeting Minutes;
Motion for Approval and Adoption of Minutes. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald
and seconded by Trustee Herrera that the minutes of the October 25, 2011 Investment
Committee meeting be approved and adopted.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3.

Manager Updates;
Ms. Hackett presented a request by the General Partners of Evercore Capital Partners
II to its Limited Partners to extend the term of the partnership by two years according
to the current amended agreement. It was then recommended by the Fund’s
Investment Staff and Investment Consultant, in consultation with Fund Legal
Counsel, that the Fund give its consent to the proposed term extension based on the
status of the portfolio.
Motion to Recommend to the Board of Trustees to Give Consent to the Evercore
Capital Partners II One-Year Term Extension Request. It was moved by Trustee
Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Benjamin to recommend to the Board of Trustees
that the Board give its limited partner consent to the proposed term extension and that
Fund Investment Staff, in consultation with Fund Legal Counsel, be authorized to
take all actions reasonably necessary to effect and communicate the same.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
Ms. Hackett also presented a request by the General Partners of Wind Point Partners
V to its Limited Partners to extend the term of the partnership by one year according
to the current amended agreement. It was then recommended by the Fund’s
1

 Investment Staff and Investment Consultant, in consultation with Fund Legal
Counsel, that the Fund give its consent to the proposed term extension based on the
status of the portfolio.
Motion to Recommend to the Board of Trustees to Give Consent to the Wind Point
Partners V One-Year Term Extension Request. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald
and seconded by Trustee Herrera to recommend to the Board of Trustees that the
Board give its limited partner consent to the proposed term extension and that the
Investment Consultant and Fund Investment Staff, in consultation with Fund Legal
Counsel, be authorized to take all actions reasonably necessary to effect and
communicate the same.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE
4.

Structure Implementation Update;
On October 25, 2011, the Investment Committee directed the Investment Consultant
to conduct further due diligence on the Fund’s legacy core plus fixed income
manager, AmalgaTrust/Goldman Sachs, and to keep the search open pending the
aforementioned review. This direction was given to compare performance of the
AmalgaTrust/Goldman Sachs account relative to the selected finalists from the core
plus fixed income search as well as to review the value of the sub-advisor relationship
between Goldman Sachs and AmalgaTrust to the Fund.
Mr. Dolsen presented the results of Callan’s due diligence. Based on this review, the
Investment Committee elected not to retain the account in the new structure. Upon
considering the revised structure and final due diligence, the Investment Committee
recommended to retain Loomis Sayles for the remaining allocation based on long
term performance, portfolio characteristics, organizational stability, and brokerage
compliance.
Motion to Select Loomis Sayles and Close Out the Amalgatrust/Goldman Sachs
Mandate. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Benjamin to
recommend to the Board not to retain Amalgatrust/Goldman Sachs for their Core Plus
fixed income mandate and to select Loomis Sayles for a mandate of approximately
12% of the total fixed income mandate for the Cook County Fund funded from the
current fund structure implementation subject to satisfactory completion of final due
diligence and successful contract negotiations. It is further moved that the Fund
Investment Staff and Executive Director be authorized to take all actions necessary to
effect the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
PRESENT:
Vote Result:

Benjamin, Herrera, Fitzgerald, and McFadden
None
Balanoff
MOTION ADOPTED

2

 5.

September Quarter Fund Performance Review;
Mr. Dolsen and Mr. Joecken reviewed the September Quarter Fund performance
report for each fund as prepared by Callan.

6.

Illinois Senate Hearing;
Ms. Hackett briefly discussed the upcoming Illinois Senate Hearing on pension funds.

7.

Adjournment.
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Benjamin that the
meeting be adjourned.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3

 