Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, December 13, 2017

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-1052
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 11/15/2017
17-6208
Sponsored by:
JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, DENNIS
DEER, BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE,
SEAN M. MORRISON, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING

TO

PRESENT

AN

ADVISORY

PUBLIC

Page 1 of 7

QUESTION

VIA

A

COUNTYWIDE

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

REFERENDUM TO COOK COUNTY VOTERS ON WHETHER THE STATE OF ILLINOIS
SHOULD LEGALIZE, REGULATE AND TAX RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA USE FOR
ADULTS 21 AND OVER
WHEREAS, Pursuant to the Illinois Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/28-1, et seq., and the Counties Code, 55
ILCS 5/5-1005.5, the corporate authorities of a county have the authority to submit a public question to the
electors of the county by means of a referendum; and
WHEREAS, despite spending more than $1 Trillion over the last 40 years, the efforts of the “War on
Drugs”, the health and social costs of drugs increase every year, drugs are no less available than before,
and treatment is not available to the vast majority of people who need it; and
WHEREAS, existing evidence from other states and countries show there is
decriminalization or legalization of marijuana leads to a measurable increase in its use; and

no indication that

WHEREAS, eight states and Washington D.C. have already legalized the recreational use of marijuana;
and
WHEREAS, marijuana-related arrests in every Cook County municipality, including Chicago, result in
staggering costs to Cook County government by virtue of the necessary involvement of the County jail,
Sheriff’s department, State’s Attorney, Clerk of the Court, judiciary, and often times, the Public Defender,
annually costing Cook County taxpayers tens of millions of dollars; and
WHEREAS, most arrests for marijuana possession do not lead to trials or prison terms. Instead, a large
number of these arrests are plea-bargained, continued without a finding, dismissed, or otherwise handled
in a manner that places unnecessary burdens on already-limited criminal justice system resources; and
WHEREAS, as Illinois and Cook County continually face severe budget and financial constraints and
lawmakers repeatedly face the undesirable choice of deciding between increasing taxes or substantial
service cuts, or both, creating an intelligent, practical framework of cannabis legalization, regulation and
taxation can help address a myriad of problems such as improved health and public safety, reduced
criminal justice and jail costs, law enforcement efficacy, black market drug displacement as well as
increased revenue for education and treatment protocols; and
WHEREAS, legalizing, regulating and taxing recreational marijuana use for adults 21 and over and would
have an estimated revenue impact of $350 to $699 million at the state level and would also have a positive
multi-million dollar impact for Cook County via sales tax proceeds and other public and private revenue
streams; and
WHEREAS, a recent 2017 Gallup poll has shown that 64% of Americans are in favor of legalizing
marijuana; and

Page 2 of 7

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

WHEREAS, a recent 2017 poll conducted by the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute finds that two-thirds
of Illinois voters, support or strongly support legalization of recreational marijuana if it is taxed and
regulated like alcohol, and in Chicago, 74 percent of voters support or strongly support legalization of
marijuana while in suburban Cook and the collar counties support or strong support is at 70 percent; and
WHEREAS, 55 ILCS 5/5-1005.5 states, “By a vote of the majority of the members of the county board,
the board may authorize an advisory question of public policy to be placed on the ballot at the next
regularly scheduled election in the county.”; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners seeks to place an advisory public question before
the electorate via a referendum on the March 20, 2018, countywide ballot seeking to ask Cook County
residents if they are in favor of legalizing, regulating and taxing recreational marijuana use for adults 21
and over in Illinois, as follows:
“Shall the State of Illinois legalize the cultivation, manufacture, distribution, testing, and sale of
marijuana and marijuana products for recreational use by adults 21 and older subject to state
regulation, taxation and local ordinance?"
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that this
Board present the aforementioned question to the electorate via a countywide advisory referendum on the
March 20, 2018 ballot;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Clerk shall certify the public question
referenced herein and notifies the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General of this request for action
in accordance with Article 28 of the Election Code.

Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

11/15/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmen

17-6302
Sponsored by:
DENNIS DEER, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, LARRY SUFFREDIN, BRIDGET
GAINER, LUIS ARROYO JR, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, EDWARD M.
MOODY, DEBORAH SIMS, JOHN P. DALEY, SEAN M. MORRISON and PETER N. SILVESTRI,
Cook County Board of Commissioners

Page 3 of 7

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO PREVENT SEXUAL HARRASSMENT IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, Cook County has zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace; and
WHEREAS, in recent weeks there has been an outpouring of complaints of sexual harassment within
Illinois government and political activities; and
WHEREAS, inspired by the #MeToo social media campaign that encouraged individuals to raise
awareness about sexual harassment, women in the Illinois Legislature created
the #ILSayNoMore
hashtag which encouraged individuals to share their experiences of sexual harassment within the State
Capitol and Illinois politics ; and
WHEREAS, more than 200 people signed onto an open letter circulated by women involved in Illinois
politics that called for “challenging every elected official, every candidate, and every participant in our
democratic process who is culpable”; and
WHEREAS, sexual harassment thrives in silence, all stakeholders need to continually work to eliminate
all forms of sexual harassment; and
WHEREAS, sexual harassment and abuse of power is toxic and unacceptable in the workplace and will
not be tolerated; and
WHERESAS, Cook County is committed to providing a workplace that is free from sexual harassment;
and
WHEREAS, all persons have a right to feel safe and work in an environment free from sexual
harassment; and
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Cook County reinforces its policy of zero tolerance for sexual
harassment and the Cook County Board of Commissioners encourages all of the separately elected Cook
County offices to adopt a zero tolerance policy for sexual harassment within their own offices; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Cook County recognizes the rights of all
employees to be treated with respect and dignity and is committed to providing a work environment free
of sexual harassment for all of its employees.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 - Human Relations,
Article II. - Human Rights, Section 42-34 - Commission on Human Rights. is hereby amended as follows:

Page 4 of 7

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

Sec. 42-31. - Definitions.

…

Religion means all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well as belief, or the actual
identification with or perceived identification with a religion.
Sexual Harassment. The term “Sexual Harassment” shall mean unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual and physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual
Harassment includes, but is not limited to:
1. Verbal harassment (lewd or suggestive remarks, sexual language, pranks, epithets, derogatory
statements, jokes, threats, slurs and/or demands for dates);
2. Physical harassment (touching, patting, pinching or brushing against another’s body);
3. Visual harassment (posters, cartoons, gross or lewd gestures, calendars, pictures, drawings,
greeting cards or leering);
4. Sexual innuendo and demands for sexual favors (unwelcome sexual statements or advances);
5. Sexual harassment includes any form of sexually oriented conduct regardless of whether it occurs
face-to-face, in writing, on the telephone, by electronic mail, via the Internet, or by some indirect form of
communication; or
6. Sexual harassment may involve individuals of the same or different gender and is prohibited
whether directed toward men or women.

Sexual orientation means the status or expression, whether actual or perceived, of heterosexuality,
homosexuality, or bisexuality.
…
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 Human Resources, Article II. - Personnel Policies. Section 44-58 - Sexual Harassment Training. is
hereby established as follows:
Sec. 44-58. - Sexual Harassment Training.

a) Each official and employee of Cook County must complete, at least annually, beginning in 2018, a
sexual harassment training program conducted by the Bureau of Human Resources. The sexual

Page 5 of 7

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

harassment training program shall be overseen by the Department of Ethics and the Office of the
Independent Inspector General.
b) The Bureau of Human Resources shall submit to the Board quarterly reports that summarizes sexual
harassment training that was completed during the previous quarter, the number of participants in those
training and lays out the plan for the sexual harassment training programs in the coming quarter.
c) A person who fills a vacancy in any position in the County, including elective and appointed positions,
must complete his or her initial sexual harassment training within 30 days after the commencement of his
or her office or employment.
d) ) Sexual Harassment Training shall minimally include but not be limited to; definition of sexual
harassment, different types of sexual harassment, harassment by a person in authority towards a
subordinate, examples of workplace sexual harassment, steps to filing a complaint, what sexual
harassment is not, hostile work environments.
…
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article VII. - Ethics, Division 3. - Lobbyists, Subdivision II.-Registration, Section 2-640. Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar is hereby amended as follows:

…
Sec. 2-640. - Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar.

Each Lobbyist shall attend an online ethics education seminar offered on a regular basis by the Cook
County Clerk and the Board of Ethics within 120 days of registering as a Lobbyist pursuant to Section
2-633. The seminar shall educate Persons as to their duties and responsibilities under this article. The
seminar shall include a program of sexual harassment training in the context of lobbying activities and
review pertinent provisions under Article II of the Cook County Code, the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance. The Clerk may partner with the Bureau of Human Resources or other applicable Department
of Cook County to facilitate the provision of the sexual harassment training. For purposes of this section,
the definition of “Sexual Harassment” includes, but is not limited to, the definitions set forth in the Cook
County Human Rights Ordinance, Section 42-30 et. seq. of the Cook County Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

11/15/17 -

Board of Commissioners

Page 6 of 7

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmen

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 7 of 7

December 13, 2017

 