JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY
SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS
JERRY BUTLER
FORREST CLAYPOOL
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
BRIDGET GAINER
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
ANTHONY J. PERAICA
EDWIN REYES
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY
Meeting of Wednesday, September 1, 2010
10:00 A.M.
Daylight Savings Time
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING
____________________
Board met pursuant to law and pursuant to Resolution 10-R-20.

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Stroger in the Chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 10:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin - 17.

Absent:

None - 0.
_________________________

President Stroger moved that the meeting do now recess for the purpose of holding the various committee
meetings.
BOARD RECONVENED
President Stroger in the Chair.
1

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin - 17.

Absent:

None - 0.

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
PRESIDENT
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 1, 2010 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Re:

New Appointment – Cook County Employee Appeals Board

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Ms. Iola McGowan to the Cook County Employee Appeals Board
for a term to begin immediately and expire on July 1, 2016. Ms. McGowan will fill the vacancy of Ms.
Rita Rezko.
I submit this communication for your approval.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations. (Comm. No. 308455). The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated September 1, 2010 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Re:

New Appointment - Zoning Board of Appeals

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Mr. Anthony B. Bass to the Cook County Zoning Board of
Appeals for a term to begin immediately and expire on August 20, 2014. Mr. Bass will fill the vacancy of
Mr. Alex Seith.

2

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

I submit this communication for your approval.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations. (Comm. No. 308456). The
motion carried unanimously.
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article IX Administrative Hearings, Section 2-919 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 2-919.

Collection of unpaid fines or other sanctions.

(a)
Any fine or other sanction or costs imposed, or any part of any fine or other sanction or
costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust procedures for judicial
review under the Administrative Review Law is a debt due and owed to the County and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with applicable law. Any subsequent owner or transferee of property takes subject
to this debt if a notice has been filed.
(b)
This subparagraph (b) shall apply to orders entered by a hearing officer prior to July 28,
2010. After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the Administrative Review Law
may be sought for a final determination of the Code violation, the County may commence a proceeding in
the circuit court of Cook County for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the hearing officer's findings,
decision, and order. Nothing in this Section prevents a the county County from consolidating multiple
findings, decisions, and orders against a person or property in such a proceeding.
(c)
Upon commencement of the action, the County shall file a certified copy of the findings,
decision, and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that
the findings, decision, and order were issued and the applicable County ordinance. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided by Section 2-203 of the Code of
Civil Procedure or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of fines or
other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision, and order does not exceed the amount
authorized by ordinance.
(d)
If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision, and order were entered properly within
the provisions of the applicable county County ordinance and that the respondent had an opportunity for a
hearing and for judicial review:
(1)

The court shall render judgment in favor of the County and against the respondent for the
amount indicated in the findings, decision, and order plus court costs. The judgment has

3

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
the same effect and may be enforced in the same manner as other judgments for the
recovery of money.
(2)

The court may issue other orders or injunctions, or both, requested by the County to
enforce the order of the hearing officer or to correct a Code violation.

(c)
This subparagraph (c) shall apply to orders entered by a hearing officer on and after July
28, 2010. After the expiration of the period in which judicial review under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a Code violation, unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. In any case in which a
respondent has failed to comply with a judgment ordering a respondent to correct a Code violation or
imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of a Code violation, any expenses incurred by the County
to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing
officer, shall be a debt due and owing the County and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer pursuant to this subsection (c), the County shall
provide notice to the respondent that states that the respondent shall appear at a hearing before the
administrative hearing officer to determine whether the respondent has failed to comply with the
judgment. The notice shall set the date for the hearing, which shall not be less than 7 days after the date
that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the 7-day period shall begin to run on the date that the
notice was deposited in the mail. Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed on the real estate or
personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount of any debt due and owing the County under this
Section. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Ordinance Amendment be
approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS,
JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
IN MEMORY OF THE HONORABLE DAN ROSTENKOWSKI

4

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, Almighty God, in His Infinite Wisdom, has called one of the most talented lawmakers ever
to serve in the United States House of Representatives, The Honorable Dan Rostenkowski, from our
midst; and
WHEREAS, the grandson of Polish immigrants and the son of the late Alderman Joseph and Pricilla
Rostenkowski, Congressman Rostenkowski was born in Chicago on January 28, 1928; he was raised on
the Northwest Side of Chicago and graduated from St. Stanislaus Kostka grammar school; and
WHEREAS, Congressman Rostenkowski attended St. John’s Military Academy in Delafield, Wisconsin
and went on to proudly serve our Country in the United State’s Army from 1946 to 1948, serving in the
Korean War; and
WHEREAS, in 1951 Congressman Rostenkowski married his love, LaVerne Pirkins, and the two of
them started to raise a family of their own; and
WHEREAS, Congressman Rostenkowski was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives in 1952
and in 1954 was elected to the Illinois State Senate; and
WHEREAS, in 1958 he was elected to the United States House of Representatives at the age of 30; over
the course of his 36-year tenure as a Democratic member of the U. S. House of Representatives,
Congressman Rostenkowski worked to bridge the aisle and the ideological, to great effect; and
WHEREAS, in 1961 Congressman Rostenkowski secured a coveted seat on the Ways and Means
Committee; he would go on to chair that powerful Committee from 1981 to 1994; his command of this
Committee, and his exceptional fairness, contributed to make him one of the most respected and trusted
leaders in Washington; and
WHEREAS, Congressman Rostenkowski worked with presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower to George
W. Bush, and was the confidante of several; and
WHEREAS, Congressman Rostenkowski supported civil rights legislation as well as various social
welfare programs, and among his extensive contributions to federal legislation is the 1966 legislation that
created Medicare; and
WHEREAS, in 1986, Congressman Rostenkowski helped forge compromises that brought about the
major 1986 Tax Reform Act, which streamlined federal income-tax laws, eliminating an exceedingly
large number of loopholes and special preferences; additionally, Congressman Rostenkowski was a key
player in crafting deals on Social Security solvency and deficit reduction; and
WHEREAS, Congressman Rostenkowski performed a key role in creating major legislation positively
affecting the Nation; rising to national prominence, he tirelessly worked to ensure that the programs and
projects important to the City of Chicago, the State of Illinois, and their residents received federal
funding; and
WHEREAS, beyond the professional accomplishments of Congressman Rostenkowski will be the warm
memories of a loving husband of 49 years to his wife, LaVerne; a dedicated father to his daughters,
Gayle, Dawn, Kristie and the late Stacy; and an adoring grandfather to Robert Daniel McDarrah.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, The Honorable Dan Rostenkowski’s memory shall be
cherished in the hearts of all the people he touched and loved.

5

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, hereby do express our
deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved
ones of The Honorable Dan Rostenkowski, and may a suitable copy of this resolution be tendered
herewith.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved to defer consideration of September
15, 2010. The motion carried unanimously.

COMMISSIONERS
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 24, 2010 from
GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioner
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $2,637.00 from Account
(094-350) Office Supplies to Account (094-289) Technical Services for the Cook County Board of
Commissioner to pay for technical services through the end of the 2010 fiscal year.
_________________________
Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the request of the County
Commissioner be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 25, 2010 from
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $1,000.00 from Account
(097-350) Office Supplies to Account (097-429) Utilities in order to pay for utility expenses through the
remainder of the Fiscal Year.
_________________________
Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the request of the County
Commissioner be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,

6

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
THE ILLINOIS STATE CRIME COMMISSION’S VETERANS EQUITY TRANSITION
PROPOSAL FOR POST 9-11 VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES MILITARY
WHEREAS, the Cook County Veterans Preference and Qualified Veteran Owned Business Incentive
Acts serves as mechanisms to assist those persons who served in active duty in the United States military
under conditions as set forth below; and
WHEREAS, the people of the Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to these individuals; and
WHEREAS, Cook County seeks to ensure that employment and entrepreneurial opportunities are
available to its veterans in their time of need; and
WHEREAS, the following legislation is a proposal of the Illinois State Crime Commission.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
34 Finance, Section 34-158 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-158.

Preference to citizens on public works projects.

(a)
The Purchasing Agent shall specify in the call for bids for any contract for public works
that contractors bidding on public works contracts of the County shall conform to the Public Works
Preference Act (30 ILCS 560/0.01 et seq.). The Purchasing Agent in awarding the contract shall cause to
be inserted in any contract for public works a stipulation to the effect that the contractor shall conform to
such Act.
(b)
Veterans preference. A preference will be given to bidders that utilize at least five
percent of eligible veterans of the United States Armed Forces as defined in this Article who are bona fide
veterans of a post-September 11, 2001 military conflict and are County residents.

(1)

For purposes of this section, in the employment and appointment to fill positions in the
construction, addition to, or alteration of all public works undertaken or contracted for by
the County, preference shall be given to persons who have been members of the armed
forces of the United States or who, while citizens of the United States, were members of
the armed forces of allies of the United States in time of hostilities occurring after
September 11, 2001, with a foreign country. and have served under one or more of the
following conditions:
a.

The veteran served a total of at least 6 months, or

b.

The veteran served for the duration of hostilities regardless of the length of
engagement; or

7

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
c.

The veteran served in the theater of operations but was discharged on the basis of
a hardship; or

d.

The veteran was released from active duty because of a service connected
disability and was honorably discharged.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34 Finance,
Section 34-160 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-160.

Qualified veteran owned business incentive.

(a)
Qualified veteran owned business means a business entity that is 51% or more owned by
one or more veterans as defined in Sec. 34-158(b)(1).
(b)
In awarding a contract under this section, the Purchasing Agent shall give a preference of
up to 5% of the amount of the contract to a qualified veteran owned business. If the qualified veteran
owned business otherwise meets the requirements of the contract solicitation and with the preference is
the lowest bidder, the purchasing agent shall enter into a procurement contract with the qualified veteran
owned business under this act. If two or more qualified veteran owned businesses are the lowest bidders
on a contract, all other things being equal, the qualified veteran owned business with the lowest bid shall
be awarded the contract under this act.
(c)
It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than 5% of its total expenditures
for construction. goods, and services to qualified veteran owned businesses. The purchasing agent may
count toward its 5% yearly goal described in this subsection that portion of all procurement contracts in
which the business entity that received the procurement contract subcontracts with a qualified veteran
owned business. Each year, the Purchasing Agent shall report to the Board of Commissioners on all of
the following for the immediately preceding twelve month period:
(1)

The number of qualified veteran owned businesses who submitted a bid for a County
procurement contract.

(2)

The number of qualified veteran owned businesses who entered into procurement
contracts with this county and the total value of those procurement contracts.

(3)

Whether the county achieved the goal described in this subsection.

(4)

Each year, the Purchasing Agent shall review the progress of all County agencies in
meeting the 5% goal with input from countywide veterans service organizations and from
the business community including qualified veteran owned businesses, and shall make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners regarding continuation, increases, or
decreases in the percentage goal. The recommendations shall be based upon the number
of qualified veteran owned business and on the continued need to encourage and promote
businesses owned by qualified veterans.

(5)

The President shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners changes in programs to
assist qualified veteran owned businesses.

(d)
Any person who knowingly and willfully violates the provisions of this Act, is guilty of a
petty offense and shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $300 for each offense.

8

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
referred to the Committee on Legislations & Intergovernmental Relations. (Comm. No. 308428). The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
THE ILLINOIS STATE CRIME COMMISSION’S
BREAK THE CYCLE RE-ENTRY PROPOSAL FOR
FIRST TIME NONVIOLENT OFFENDERS WHO ARE EMPLOYMENT READY
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has recognized in the past that there are
numerous obstacles to re-entry to the work place for first time nonviolent offenders who are employment
ready; and
WHEREAS, in 2004, the Cook County Board of Commissioners established the Re-entry Employment
Project pilot program ("Pilot Program") with the goals of enrolling 100 adults who are former offenders
and residents of the County by removing barriers to County government employment opportunities and to
encourage participation by County officers and private sector employers as a strategy for increasing
public safety and reducing recidivism; and
WHEREAS, the Pilot Program established a Certificate of Completion procedure to evaluate and
formally recognize the rehabilitation of these individuals and to provide them with County internships;
and
WHEREAS, no standards were included in the Pilot Program for private employers to hire these
individuals; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Sheriff has joined forces with private sector employers, who seek to hire
individual who have demonstrated their rehabilitation, in order to promote public safety and break the
cycle of recidivism; and
WHEREAS, the need remains great to hire hundreds, if not thousands, of rehabilitated first time
nonviolent offenders, who are employment ready, to prevent these individuals from committing new
crimes in order to support themselves and their families; and
WHEREAS, the following legislation is a proposal of the Illinois State Crime Commission.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
34 Finance, Section 34-358 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-358. Effective date Preference to residents of the County.

9

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

This Ordinance shall take effect 60 days after its passage and approval (a) In addition to the
provisions of this Division, preference will be given to bidders that utilize at least two percent of Eligible
Offenders as defined in Section 46-140 who are bona fide County residents and who:
(1)

Have a valid Certificate of Completion as defined in Sections 46-142 and 46-143; or

(2)

Can otherwise demonstrate that each employee is a first time nonviolent offender who is
employment ready and has not had a Certificate of Completion revoked under Section
46-145.

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
This item was WITHDRAWN at the request of the sponsor.
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EDWIN REYES and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
WHEREAS, as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States of America has
redeployed its military for the “war on terror” with personnel seeing active combat, most notably in
Afghanistan and Iraq; and
WHEREAS, the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces selflessly serve our country and sacrifice
much by placing their personal safety and ambitions second to protecting our country, our ideals and our
freedom; and
WHEREAS, many veterans have incurred or aggravated disabilities while in the line of duty serving on
active duty; and
WHEREAS, recognizing the extraordinary service of our veterans, President George W. Bush sought to
honor veterans with disabilities by issuing Executive Order 13360 on October 20, 2004, which seeks to
provide increased opportunity for service-disabled veteran businesses to participate in contracts through
the Federal government; and
WHEREAS, in order to achieve this objective the President established a goal of not less than 3 percent
participation for Federal contracting and subcontracting for service-disabled veteran businesses; and
WHEREAS, the County of Cook should also seek to honor and assist service-disabled veteran businesses
by similarly seeking to increase the participation of said businesses in County contracts.

10

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
BE IT ORDAINED; by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34 Finance, Article IV
Procurement and Contracts, Sections 34-271 through 34-285 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:
ARTICLE IV. PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTS
DIVISION 6. MINORITY-AND–WOMEN OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Sec. 34-2751.

Short title.

This division shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Minority- and Women-Owned
Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Sec. 34-2762.

Purpose; policy and findings.

(a)
It is the public policy of the County to ensure the full and equitable participation of
minority and female owned businesses in the County's procurement process as both prime and
subcontractors.
(b)
The County is committed to a policy of preventing discrimination in the award of or
participation in County contracts and eliminating arbitrary barriers to full participation in such contracts
by all persons, regardless of race, sex, or ethnicity.
(c)
Minority and women's businesses have contributed significantly to the economic
development of the community, and played a similar role in increasing employment, including that of
minorities.
(d)
Various Federal, State and local legislative bodies and governmental agencies have
adopted affirmative action programs in order to eradicate the practice of racial, ethnic and sexual
discrimination in the award of public contracts.
(e)
The County has heretofore adopted a Minority Business Enterprise Ordinance to ensure
that minority and women's businesses are provided full and equal opportunity to participate in County
contracts.
(f)
The Supreme Court of the United States in City of Richmond v. Croson, 488 U.S. 469
(1989), has enunciated certain standards which are necessary to maintain effective affirmative action
programs in compliance with constitutional requirements.
(g)
The County is committed to implementing its affirmative action program in conformance
with the United States Supreme Court's decision in City of Richmond v. Croson.
(h)
In furtherance of this commitment, the Cook County Board directed the County staff and
its outside consultants to conduct an investigation into the scope of any discrimination in the award of and
participation in County contracts as well as in the metropolitan Chicago economy, the extent to which
such discrimination or the effects thereof has denied and continues to deny minority and women's
business enterprises equal opportunity to participate in County contracts and to recommend the
appropriate affirmative action steps to be taken to eliminate any such discrimination and its continuing
effects.

11

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(i)
Pursuant to the County Board's direction, the County staff and its outside consultants
conducted such an investigation.
(j)
The County Board, having reviewed the report of the County's staff and its outside
consultants and having conducted public hearings and received the testimony of witnesses, makes the
following findings:
(1)

Minority and women's businesses continue to be awarded prime contracts and
subcontracts in dollar amounts that are disproportionately lower than the availability of
such businesses willing and able to perform County contracts.

(2)

The County's procurement practices in the past have contributed to the above identified
underutilization of minority and women's businesses on County contracts.

(3)

Minority and women's businesses continue to be disadvantaged by discriminatory
practices in the local construction industry and economy when competing for County
contracts and in seeking subcontracting opportunities on such contracts.

(4)

The County was a passive participant in the discriminatory practices of businesses which
discriminate against minority and women's businesses by entering into contracts with
such businesses.

(5)

Despite its good faith efforts and implementation of previous affirmative action
programs, minority and women's businesses remain at a competitive disadvantage in
competing for County contracts and subcontracts.

(6)

Race and gender neutral measures or affirmative action programs without numerical
goals have not and are not likely to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of minority
and women's businesses in participating in County contracts due to discrimination in the
local economy.

(7)

The numerical goals for the participation of minority and women's businesses in County
contracts are commensurate with the availability of minority and women's businesses
willing and able to perform County work.

Sec. 34-2773.

Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bona fide resident of the County means a person whose legal and actual residency is within the
County borders.
Certified or certification means registration of the Minority Business Enterprises or Women's
Business Enterprise status of a business in the County's Directory of Minority Business Enterprises,
Women's Business Enterprises and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises ("PCE Directory").
Commercially useful function means the performance of real and actual services in the discharge
of any contractual endeavor. The contractor must perform a distinct element of work which the business
has the skill and expertise to perform and have the responsibility of actually performing, managing and
supervising such element of work.

12

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Contract Compliance Administrator (CCA) means the Contract Compliance Administrator of the
County.
Contractor means any person or business entity that bids on or enters into a Contract with the
County, and includes all partners and all joint venturers of such person or entity.
Controlled, for purposes of determining whether a business is a minority business enterprise or
women's business enterprise, means the minority or the female owner shall:
(1)

Possess and exercise the legal authority and power to manage business assets, good will
and daily operations of the business; and

(2)

Actively and continuously exercise such managerial authority and power in determining
the policies and directing the daily operations of the business. If the owners who are not
minorities or females are disproportionately responsible for the operation of the business,
then the business is not controlled by minorities or females.

County contracts means any contract, purchase order or agreement (other than a lease or
collective bargaining agreement):
(1)

Where the cost is to be paid from funds belonging to or administered by the County,
including such funds subject to Federal reimbursement or which requires that monies be
paid to the County; and

(2)

That is Board-valued at more than $25,000.00.

Joint venture means an association of two or more businesses formed to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit, and for which purpose they combine their expertise, property, capital,
efforts, skills and knowledge.
Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) means a certified participating business at least 51 percent
of which is owned and controlled by one or more members of one or more minority groups or, in the case
of a publicly held corporation, 51 percent of the stock is owned by one or more members of one or more
minority groups and whose daily business operations are controlled by one or more such individuals. A
minority group member is an individual who is one of the following:
(1)

African-American or Black (persons with origins in any of the Black racial groups of
Africa);

(2)

Hispanic American (persons of Spanish culture with origins from Puerto Rico, Mexico,
Cuba, South or Central America, Spain, Portugal, or the Caribbean Islands regardless of
race);

(3)

Native American (American Indian);

(4)

Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Japan, China, the Philippines,
Vietnam, Korea, Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific, Northern
Marianas, Laos, Cambodia, Taiwan, or the Indian subcontinent); or

13

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(5)

Any other ethnically or racially identifiable group found by the Contract Compliance
Administrator to have suffered actual racial or ethnic discrimination resulting in a
competitive disadvantage or decreased opportunities to do business with the County.

Owned means having all the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of disposition,
and the sharing in all risks and profits commensurate with the degree of ownership interest.
Participating business means a business located within the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry or Will in the State (the "Six-County Region") that has the majority of its regular, fulltime work force located within the Six-County Region and/or a business which has been placed on the
vendors list maintained by the Purchasing Agent and/or has bid on or sought County work.
Program means the Minority and Women Owned Businesses Enterprise Program established
herein.
Protected Class Enterprise (PCE), for the purposes of this Program, shall mean those businesses
qualifying under the definitions of Minority Business Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise
contained in this section.
Purchasing Agent means the Purchasing Agent of the County.
Women's Business Enterprise (WBE) means a certified participating business at least 51 percent
of which is owned and controlled by one or more women, or, in the case of a publicly held corporation,
51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women and whose daily business operations are
controlled by one or more such individuals. Determination of whether a business is at least 51 percent
owned by a woman or women shall be made without regard to community property laws.
Sec. 34-2784.

Staffing and responsibilities for affirmative action.

(a)
Contract Compliance Committee. The members of the County Board shall elect, from the
Board membership, a Contract Compliance Committee ("CCC") which shall consist of seven members of
the County Board and which shall hereinafter become and remain a permanent Standing Committee of the
County Board.
(b)

Contract Compliance Administrator.

(1)

The provisions of this division and the affirmative action/procurement program
("program") established hereunder shall be administered, supervised and monitored by a
Contract Compliance Administrator ("CCA") and staff.

(2)

The Contract Compliance Administrator's duties shall include (but not be limited to) the
following areas:

a.
Devising a certification procedure to assure that businesses taking advantage of this
division are legitimate minority- or female-owned businesses.
b.

Maintaining a list of all bona fide, certified businesses.

c.
Recommending guidelines and regulations for the use of Protected Class Enterprise
participation procedures which shall be approved by the Contract Compliance Committee prior to
submission to the County Board. These guidelines shall include, but shall not be limited to, definition of

14

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
goals; conditions warranting and limiting waivers; and establishment of procedures for participation in the
program.
d.
Recommending enforcement procedures which shall be approved by the Contract
Compliance Committee prior to submission to the County Board, whereby the Committee may
recommend to the State's Attorney that the County exercise its legal remedies to ensure reasonable and
timely progress toward established goals and to prevent prime contractors from engaging in any practices
through which they qualify for protected participation on the basis of misrepresentation of subcontracts or
qualifications of subcontractors.
e.
Insuring the County's conformance with Federal and State affirmative action and equal
employment opportunity laws and regulations.
f.

Participating in all purchasing, bidding, and awards processes.

g.

Participating in all precontract conferences.

h.

Maintaining liaison with community groups.

i.
Investigating affirmative action complaints, and reporting findings to the Contract
Compliance Committee for presentation to the County Board.
j.

Maintaining liaison with contractor, professional, and supplier groups and associations.

k.
Providing technical assistance to appropriate County departments, offices, and divisions
in drawing specifications to include opportunities for minority- and women-owned businesses.
l.
Generating publicity, through media appearances and public speaking engagements, to
provide information and clarification about the program to as broad-based an audience as possible.
m.
indicated.

Recommending measures for revision and updating of the program as the need is

(3)

Various parts of this program require information on the County's business and
contracting activities be widely disseminated throughout the protected class community.

(c)
Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall take whatever steps are necessary to
ensure that the purchasing staff views the implementation of this division as a priority. The Purchasing
Agent shall report quarterly to the Contract Compliance Administrator on the status of the program and
shall be responsible for the following duties:
(1)

A listing of minority vendors and suppliers shall be prepared by the Purchasing
Department and continually updated. This listing may use, but shall not be limited to, the
County's Protected Class Enterprise Directory; and updating of this list should be
forwarded to the Contract Compliance Administrator;

(2)

All new vendors on this list shall be forwarded bidders list forms and instructions; these
forms and instructions shall also be distributed to protected class vendors at conferences
and workshops;

15

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(3)

All Protected Class Enterprise vendors who complete the bidders list forms shall become
part of the bidders list and shall be sent notice of upcoming bids related to the Protected
Class Enterprise's business at the same time that such notice is sent to all prospective
bidders;

(4)

All Protected Class Enterprise vendors who become part of the bidders list shall have
their records coded so that the vendor's history kept by the Purchasing Department will
show a monthly accounting of Protected Class Enterprise purchases which can be
reviewed by the Contract Compliance Administrator;

(5)

All staff in the Purchasing Department shall take part in periodic training, with respect to
making purchases from protected class companies; the Contract Compliance
Administrator shall be consulted by the Purchasing Agent with regard to these training
efforts and shall monitor both the training content and procedures;

(6)

The Purchasing Agent, in conjunction with the Contract Compliance Administrator, shall
set up procurement "best effort" guidelines for the various members of the procurement
staff; these guidelines shall set the standards by which Purchasing Department staff will
seek to make purchases from protected businesses; they shall also serve as a measure for
the compliance review of the department with respect to the protected class program;
these "best effort" guidelines shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

Sec. 34-2795.

a.

Assist in identifying protected class suppliers and/or vendors located in greater
Cook County area, by product or service line, and assessing their present
capability and long-term business potential with the County.

b.

Aggressively pursue protected class suppliers, seeking out qualified and
qualifiable protected class businesses in deliberate outreach efforts.

c.

Review expected purchases on a continuous basis with the aim of matching
potential protected class vendors and projected needs.

d.

Arrange meetings with management of vendors, and make facility visits where
appropriate.

e.

Provide information to potential protected class suppliers regarding the County's
purchasing policies and requirements.

f.

Provide information to protected class suppliers or vendors regarding the
County's competitive standards and prices.

g.

Maintain accurate recordkeeping of all efforts and actual purchases made from
protected class companies.

Application of division.

This division shall be applied to all County contracts, including those contracts under which there
are residency qualifications, except to the extent it may be inconsistent with any applicable State or
Federal statute, regulation or program.
Sec. 34-28076. Program goals.

16

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

(a)
In fulfillment of its policy to promote equal opportunity in its procurement process, the
County establishes the goal that Protected Class Enterprises shall participate in not less then 35 percent of
the annual aggregate value of all contracts awarded by the County. County procurement personnel will
make their best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make purchases from qualified Protected Class
Enterprises.
(1)

Not less than 25 percent of the annual total dollar amount of County contracts and 30
percent of the annual total dollar amount of construction contracts will be established as a
goal to be awarded to Minority Business Enterprises.

(2)

Not less than ten percent of the total dollar amount of County contracts, will be
established as a goal to be awarded to Women's Business Enterprises.

(3)

The above stated percentages relate to the total dollar amount of County contracts during
each fiscal year calculated by examining independently each type of contract.

(b)
The County shall comply with all applicable Federal and State policies requiring
affirmative action to increase the employment opportunities of minority and female workers on its
construction projects.
(c)
No goal shall be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any person
or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
Sec. 34-28177. Implementation.
(a)

Contract goals.

(1)

To achieve the goals stated in Section 34-280, the Purchasing Agent, except as provided
in Subsection (a)(2) of this section, shall include in the bid specifications a requirement
that each contractor commit that Minority Business Enterprise and Women's Business
Enterprise participation in the contract will equal at least 25 percent (30 percent in the
case of construction contracts) and ten percent, respectively, of the total dollar value of
the contract.

(2)

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall evaluate the applicability of the Minority
Business Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise goals to a specific contract. Where
the Contract Compliance Administrator, in consultation with the Purchasing Agent and
the user Departments, determines that the established goals are not appropriate for a
specific contract because of its particular requirements, the Contract Compliance
Administrator shall set an appropriate goal for the contract, based upon the availability of
Protected Class Enterprises which are capable of providing the goods and/or services
required by the particular contract, the past level of Protected Class Enterprise
participation in similar contracts, the specifications of the contract and any other criteria
adopted by the Contract Compliance Administrator.

(3)

The applicable goals for a specific contract shall be designated in the contract
specifications.

(b)

Contractor responsibility and requirements.

17

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(1)

As a precondition to selection, each contractor shall submit with its bid a completed and
signed utilization plan which lists the names, addresses and contact persons of businesses
intended to be used as Protected Class Enterprises on the contract, the type and scope of
work or service each business will perform and the dollar amount to be allocated to each
Protected Class Enterprise. Such listing shall not be duplicative (e.g., two or more entities
each listed as performing 100 percent of the same work or service). Within three business
days following submission of bids, a bidder shall submit its letters of intent to Protected
Class Enterprises listed on its utilization plan, provided that no substitutions shall be
permitted prior to bid award. Each contractor's utilization plan shall commit to Protected
Class Enterprise participation equal to or greater than each of the applicable Protected
Class Enterprise goals, unless the contractor requests a partial or total waiver of the
requirement that it file a utilization plan or achieve a particular goal for Protected Class
Enterprise participation by submitting with the filing of its bid a signed waiver request
form.

(2)

Notwithstanding its compliance with any other requirement of County ordinances and
contract specifications, no bidder or offer or shall be awarded an eligible contract unless
the Contract Compliance Administrator has approved its utilization plan or granted a
waiver on the contract. Such utilization plan shall be designed to meet the applicable
Minority Business Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise goals set for such project
and shall be incorporated into the contract.

(3)

A contractor may achieve the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals by its status as
a Protected Class Enterprise or by joint venture with one or more Protected Class
Enterprises or by subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more Protected Class
Enterprises or by purchase of materials or services from one or more Protected Class
Enterprises or by the indirect participation of Protected Class Enterprises in other aspects
of the contractor's business such as through a Mentor/Protege agreement as provided
herein (in accordance with applicable guidelines and provided that such Protected Class
Enterprise indirect participation may not be credited toward goal attainment on more than
one contract subject to this article) or by any combination of the above, subject to the
following guidelines:
a.

Joint ventures. Where a contractor engages in a joint venture to satisfy its
affirmative action commitment, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall
review the profits and losses, initial capital investment, actual participation of the
joint venture partners in the performance of the contract, and other pertinent
factors to determine the amount of credit to be granted for the joint venture
toward attainment of the applicable Minority Business Enterprise and Women's
Business Enterprise goals. The Contract Compliance Administrator may review
all records pertaining to joint venture agreements before or after the award of a
contract in order to assess compliance with this article. A contractor shall receive
credit towards achievement of the applicable goals in proportion to the
percentage of the contract to be performed by the Protected Class Enterprise,
provided that the Contract Compliance Administrator may deny or limit
Protected Class Enterprise credit to a contractor where the Protected Class
Enterprise joint venture partner is found not to be performing a commercially
useful function or not to have duties, responsibilities, management control or risk
with respect to the joint venture commensurate with or in proportion to its joint
venture ownership.

18

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
b.

Subcontracts. A contractor may count toward its Protected Class Enterprise goals
only expenditures to Protected Class Enterprises that perform a commercially
useful function in the performance of a contract for work actually performed or
materials supplied by the Protected Class Enterprise. To determine whether a
Protected Class Enterprise is performing a commercially useful function, the
Contract Compliance Administrator may evaluate the amount of work
subcontracted, industry practices, whether the Protected Class Enterprise has the
skill and experience to perform the work for which it is being utilized and other
relevant factors. Consistent with normal industry practices, a Protected Class
Enterprise subcontractor may enter into second tier subcontracts. However, if a
Protected Class Enterprise contractor or subcontractor subcontracts a
significantly greater portion of the work of the contract than would be expected
on the basis of normal industry practices, the Minority Business Enterprise or
Women's Business Enterprise shall be presumed not to be performing a
commercially useful function.

c.

Manufacturers and suppliers. Where a contractor utilizes one or more suppliers
to achieve its Protected Class Enterprise goals, such Protected Class Enterprise
supplier participation may be 100 percent credited toward goal attainment where
the Protected Class Enterprise supplier manufactures the goods supplied or where
such Protected Class Enterprise supplier owns or operates a store, warehouse or
other establishment (and related distribution equipment) in which it maintains,
consistent with industry standards, an inventory of the materials or supplies
required for performance of the contract for sale in the normal course of business.
The participation of a Protected Class Enterprise supplier who acts as a broker
(i.e., who performs no manufacturing or warehousing) shall be credited toward
the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals at a rate equal to ten percent of
the payments to such Protected Class Enterprise broker.

d.

Protected Class Enterprise prime contractors or joint venturers. A Minority
Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise contractor may count its
own participation toward the achievement of the applicable Minority Business
Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise goal, respectively, but such a
contractor will be required to meet all other applicable goals by joint ventures,
subcontracting or purchase of materials or services. Where a contractor is a
business owned and controlled by minority women ("M/WBE") or where the
contractor utilizes a M/WBE in a joint venture, as a subcontractor or a supplier,
the contractor may count the M/WBE participation either toward the achievement
of its Minority Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise goal but not
both.

e.

Mentor/protege agreements. Where a contractor enters into a written agreement
("mentor/protege" agreement) with a Protected Class Enterprise to improve or
develop certain aspects of the business of the Protected Class Enterprise, such an
agreement may be evaluated by the Contract Compliance Administrator to assess
appropriate credit toward the Protected Class Enterprise goals of the contractor.
The contractor and Protected Class Enterprise shall remain separate and
independent business entities under the agreement. The mentor/protege
agreement may provide for the contractor to assist the Protected Class Enterprise
in such areas as technical aspects of its business, improving financial

19

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
management, or providing on-the-job training. No such credit shall be available
unless:
1.

The Protected Class Enterprise provides a commercially useful function
in the performance of its agreement with the contractor;

2.

The agreement is in writing and is submitted to the Contract Compliance
Administrator before the award of the contract; and

3.

The agreement clearly defines the respective responsibilities of the
contractor and the Protected Class Enterprise and includes specific,
measurable goals to be attained by both parties through the performance
of the agreement. Upon recommendation by the Contract Compliance
Administrator, the Contract Compliance Committee shall determine the
amount of credit to be counted toward the applicable goals of this
division. The Contract Compliance Administrator shall require the
contractor to submit periodic reports summarizing the progress of the
execution of the mentor/protege agreement, and shall notify both parties
of any deficiencies in performance. In order to qualify for credit, the
mentor/protege agreement must coincide in duration with, or not be for a
shorter length of time than, the contract between the contractor and the
County.

(4)

Where a contractor seeks relief from all or part of a contract's goals, the contractor shall
submit with its bid a proposal or request for a waiver.

(5)

A contractor's submission of a utilization plan which commits to a Protected Class
Enterprise participation goal equal to or greater than the applicable goals shall not
provide a basis for a higher bid, an increase in contract price or later change order.

(c)

Review of bid or offer.

(1)

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review each bid or offer to determine if the
contractor has included in its submission a completed and signed utilization plan which
meets the Protected Class Enterprise goals for the contract, and approve or reject the plan.

(2)

The Purchasing Agent, at the direction of the Contract Compliance Administrator, shall
declare the bid or offer nonresponsive where the Contract Compliance Administrator
determines that a contractor:

(3)

a.

Failed to submit with its bid a completed utilization plan;

b.

Failed to identify in its plan sufficient Minority Business Enterprises and/or
Women's Business Enterprises by name, scope of work and dollar value of work
to meet the applicable goals for the contract; or

c.

Failed to submit with its bid a request for a total or partial waiver of the
applicable goals.

Where a partial or total request for waiver of a goal is made, the Contract Compliance
Administrator shall determine whether a bidder or offer or has made good faith efforts to

20

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
meet the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals and whether a total or partial waiver
of a goal should be granted. Good faith efforts, as defined herein, shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:

(4)

a.

Attend any prebid conference conducted by the County to acquaint contractors
with Protected Class Enterprises available to provide relevant goods and services
and to inform Protected Class Enterprise's of subcontract opportunities on the
contract;

b.

Review lists of available Protected Class Enterprises maintained by the County
and other State and local governments and agencies prior to the bid opening to
identify qualified Protected Class Enterprises for solicitation for bids;

c.

Advertise, not less than 15 calendar days before the bid opening date, in one or
more daily newspapers and/or trade publications, for bids by Protected Class
Enterprises for subcontracts or the supply of goods and services on the contract;

d.

Make timely written solicitations of available Protected Class Enterprises
identified on the County's list as providing relevant services for bids for
subcontracts or the supply of goods and services; and provide Protected Class
Enterprises with a convenient and timely opportunity to review and obtain
relevant plans, specifications or terms and conditions of the contract to enable
such Protected Class Enterprises to prepare an informed response to a contractor
solicitation;

e.

Divide total contract requirements into small tasks or quantities and adjust
performance bond and insurance requirements or otherwise assist Protected Class
Enterprises in obtaining the required bonding, insurance or financing, where
economically feasible, to encourage participation of Protected Class Enterprises;

f.

Follow up initial solicitation of Protected Class Enterprises by contacting
Protected Class Enterprises to determine if the enterprises are interested in
making bids;

g.

Negotiate in good faith with Protected Class Enterprises prior to the bid opening
and do not reject as unsatisfactory any bids submitted by Protected Class
Enterprises without justifiable reason;

h.

Establish delivery schedules, where the requirements of the work permit, which
will encourage participation by Protected Class Enterprises;

i.

Establish joint ventures with Protected Class Enterprises;

j.

Use the services and assistance of the Contract Compliance Administrator's staff,
the Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority Business Enterprises
of the U.S. Department of Commerce and where the contractor seeks a waiver,
make timely notice of the need for Protected Class Enterprise subcontractors to
an appropriate community and minority and women's business organization
identified as an assist agency with respect to this article.

A contractor seeking a total or partial waiver shall, in accordance with guidelines issued
by the Contract Compliance Administrator, be required to submit evidence of its good
faith efforts to achieve the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals and in support of

21

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
its reasons for seeking a waiver. Performance of all the actions set out in Subsection
(c)(3) of this section by the contractor shall create a rebuttable assumption that the
contractor has made good faith efforts to meet the applicable Protected Class Enterprise
goals. The determination of the adequacy of a contractor's good faith efforts will be
evaluated on the basis of the contractor's actions as of the date of the bid opening.
(5)

The Contract Compliance Administrator may grant the waiver request of a contractor
based upon the following criteria:
a.

Sufficient qualified Protected Class Enterprises capable of providing the goods or
services required by the contract are unavailable despite the good faith efforts of
the contractor;

b.

The specifications of and the reasonable and necessary requirements for
performing the contract make it impossible or economically infeasible to divide
the contract into sufficiently small tasks or quantities to enable the contractor to
utilize Protected Class Enterprises in accordance with the applicable utilization
goals;

c.

The price quoted by any potential Protected Class Enterprise source of goods or
services is more than ten percent above competitive levels; and

d.

Any other factor determined to be relevant by the Contract Compliance
Administrator.

(6)

Where a partial waiver is granted, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall specify
the amount of the applicable goal.

(7)

Where the Contract Compliance Administrator determines that a contractor has not made
a good faith effort to meet the applicable goals and/or comply with the provisions herein,
including, but not limited to, failing to timely submit the required letters of intent or other
information request and/or has not otherwise met the requirements for a total or partial
waiver, the Purchasing Agent may declare the contractor nonresponsive and reject the bid
and reject any waiver request which may have been filed.

(8)

Where the Contract Compliance Administrator determines that the utilization plan
submitted by a contractor is false or fraudulent, the Purchasing Agent shall reject the bid
or, if such a determination is made after the bid award, the contract may be forfeited and
canceled.

(d)
Subcontract requirements. Within 30 days after demand, the prime contractor shall
furnish fully executed copies of all protected class subagreements and these shall be reviewed by the
Contract Compliance Administrator and submitted to the Contract Compliance Committee of the County
Board. Subsequently, the prime contractor shall obtain and submit a copy of all Minority Business
Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise related subtier contracts on demand.
(e)

Review of contract performance.

(1)

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review the contractor's efforts during the
performance of the contract to achieve its Protected Class Enterprise commitments as
stated in its utilization plan. If the contractor meets or exceeds its stated goals, it shall be
presumed to be in compliance. Where the Contract Compliance Administrator finds that
the contractor has failed to achieve its stated goals or otherwise has failed to comply with
the requirements of the division, including failure to provide any documentation required

22

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
by the Contract Compliance Administrator, has not satisfactorily demonstrated good faith
efforts, and/or has deviated without authorization from the compliance related portions of
the contract as originally approved, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall report
findings to the Contract Compliance Committee.
(2)

The Contract Compliance Administrator may establish such requirements for periodic
contractor reporting on the fulfillment of its goals and its utilization of Protected Class
Enterprises as the Contract Compliance Administrator determines appropriate and
necessary for effective enforcement of this division. A contractor also shall be required to
provide the Contract Compliance Administrator any additional requested compliance
documentation within 14 days of such request.

(3)

If the Contract Compliance Committee determines that the contractor has failed to
comply with its contractual commitments or any portion of this division, the Contract
Compliance Committee will notify the contractor of such noncompliance and may take
any of the following actions:
a.

Instruct the Comptroller to withhold 50 percent of the current progress payment
due the prime contractor.

b.

Withhold up to 100 percent of further progress payments until the contractor
demonstrates that it is in compliance with the requirements of this division.

c.

Debar the contractor from future bids or offers until the contractor demonstrates
that it is in compliance with the requirements of this division.

(f)
Protected Class Enterprise bid and target market programs. To address more specifically
the barriers to Protected Class Enterprise participation as prime contractors in County work, the Contract
Compliance Administrator may direct the Purchasing Agent to institute the following special Protected
Class Enterprise bidding provisions, following determination of the appropriateness of such provisions.
(1)

(2)

In connection with the award of a contract subject to competitive bidding on which a
Protected Class Enterprise has bid and where the Protected Class Enterprise meets the
following criteria:
a.

It is bidding on the item in question for the first time; and

b.

It never has successfully bid on a Cook County purchasing contract, the Contract
Compliance Administrator may, at the opening of the bids on the item, compare
the Protected Class Enterprise bid with the lowest bid, and, if the Protected Class
Enterprise's bid is closely competitive as defined by guidelines to be established
by the Contract Compliance Administrator with that of lowest actual bids, direct
the Purchasing Agent to declare the Protected Class Enterprise the successful
bidder. A Protected Class Enterprise may use this procedure only once to become
the successful bidder on any particular item. Thereafter, the Protected Class
Enterprise must be totally competitive in terms of price to be the successful
bidder.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall develop and coordinate a target market
program as follows:
a.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review the availability of Protected
Class Enterprises providing various goods and services and shall identify for
inclusion in a potential program for bidding among Protected Class Enterprise

23

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
firms certain commodity areas with sufficient Protected Class Enterprise
availability to ensure that the County receives a competitive price. The Contract
Compliance Administrator shall report his/her findings and recommendations to
the Contract Compliance Committee;
b.

c.

Upon a determination by the Contract Compliance Committee that such a
program is advisable for any particular commodity procurement, the Contract
Compliance Administrator will institute the following procedures:
1.

The Contract Compliance Administrator will notify the Purchasing
Agent of identification of those commodity codes appropriate for a target
market program;

2.

To the extent practicable, the Purchasing Agent, with the aid of the
Contract Compliance Administrator, shall divide procurement in the
designated commodity areas into economically feasible sizes to facilitate
bids or offers from Protected Class Enterprises and shall designate
contracts to be offered under the target market program;

3.

The Purchasing Agent shall offer Protected Class Enterprises the
opportunity to bid on such contracts in a limited competition;

4.

All standard County rules for bidding will then become effective and,
provided that at least three Protected Class Enterprises bid or make an
offer on the contract, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder
among the Protected Class Enterprise firms will receive the contract;

5.

In the event less than three Protected Class Enterprises bid or make an
offer on the contract or if there is no responsive bid or offer received
from a responsible Protected Class Enterprise, the Purchasing Agent
shall rebid the contract not subject to the target market program.

Participation in the target market program shall be limited to Minority Business
Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises and joint ventures consisting
exclusively of Minority Business Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises or
both. The Protected Class Enterprise contractor on a target market contract may
subcontract up to 50 percent of the dollar value of the target market contract to
subcontractors who are not Minority Business Enterprises or Women's Business
Enterprises.

(g)
Fifty percent Protected Class Enterprises required for informal bid solicitations. All
buyers shall solicit 50 percent PCEs in their informal bid solicitations for materials under $10,000.00,
which are not bid by formal advertising.
(h)
Buyers to use Protected Class Enterprises in requisitions. All buyers will make every
effort to use Protected Class Enterprises whenever possible in their requisitions for materials under
$10,000.00, which are not bid.
(i)
Division of large contracts to facilitate offers from Protected Class Enterprises. With
respect to large contracts for which subcontracting possibilities are impracticable, all buyers will, to the

24

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
extent practicable, divide such contracts into economically feasible sizes to facilitate bids or offers from
Protected Class Enterprises.
(j)
Technical assistance. The contractor is bound by all the requirements, terms, and
conditions of this article. Subsequent to the acceptance of an awarded contract, there will be no waiver of
the requirements, terms and conditions. The County Board, through its Contract Compliance Committee
and the Contract Compliance Administrator, will make technical assistance in meeting the terms and
conditions of this article available to all interested bidders.
(k)

Finance; measures for reduction of cash flow problems of protected class contractors.

(1)

As needed, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall assist Protected Class
Enterprises with training seminars in the technical aspects of preparing a bid for a County
contract.

(2)

All prime contractors shall be urged to follow the County's example by making prompt
and timely payments to Protected Class Enterprise subcontractors working on Cook
County projects. The timeliness of such payments shall be monitored by the Contract
Compliance Administrator on a regular basis, and an investigation shall be made of every
complaint or charge of excessive delay in payment. Reports of these investigations shall
be made to the Contract Compliance Committee and to the County Comptroller.

(3)

If at any time during the progress of the work, the contractor shall fail or neglect to pay a
Protected Class Enterprise subcontractor for any labor performed, furnished, or tools,
machinery, appliances, fuels, provisions or supplies of any sort or kind used or consumed
upon, in or on account of the work for ten days after payment for same shall become due,
then the County shall have the power and authority to pay such indebtedness, and the
amount so paid shall be retained out of the money due or to become due the contractor.
The County Comptroller may refuse to make the payment hereinafter specified to the
extent of such indebtedness, until satisfactory evidence in writing has been furnished that
the indebtedness has been discharged. In any such case, the Purchasing Agent is hereby
authorized and empowered by the contractor to ascertain the amount due or owing from
the contractor to any laborer or laborers, or to any person or persons, or corporation, for
labor, equipment, material, tools, machinery, appliances, provisions, fuels, or supplies of
any sort or kind consumed upon, in or on account of the work covered by this contract in
such manner and upon such proofs as may be deemed sufficient.

(4)

The County Board shall encourage major prime contractors to make available to
Protected Class Enterprise subcontractors working on their projects their sources of
financial assistance.

(l)
Contract award considerations. Where the lowest responsive contractor submits a
bid/offer which exceeds by ten percent or more the bid/offer of the lowest PCE nonresponsive contractor
["PCE nonresponsive" for purposes of this subsection means nonresponsive pursuant to Subsection (c)(2)
of this section, but otherwise responsive to the contract specifications], the County shall have the right to
reject all bids/offers and rebid or request further offers.
Sec. 34-28278. Professionals and consulting services and sole source agreements.
All Department heads who may employ the professional services of accountants, attorneys,
physicians, dentists, statisticians, data analysts, engineers, and other such personnel or who require goods

25

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
or services procured through sole source agreements shall implement this article and compliance
programs in a "best effort" manner. In lieu of the requirements set forth in Section 34-281(b), all
providers of such professional services or goods or services are to be notified that:
(1)

In the case of term contracts (annually or for more than six months), they are to maximize
the use of Protected Class Enterprises or individuals as subconsultants or subcontractors.

(2)

In the case of contracts instituted on an as-needed basis or lasting less than six months,
they are to submit to the County affirmative action plans and goals and maximize the
number of women and minority professionals in their firm who participate in various
County projects.

(3)

In both of the above cases the internal affirmative action plans and goals of the providers
shall be submitted to the Contract Compliance Administrator and shall be reviewed
against the provider's actual affirmative action achievements and shall become a part of
the provider's protected class compliance review; this twice yearly review by the Contract
Compliance Administrator shall become a factor in the County's continued use of the
services of providers.

(4)

The County sets a "best efforts" goal of 35 percent Protected Class Enterprise
participation for the total professional services and consulting services utilized by the
County. The County must be able to call upon those professionals whose particular
training and experience most closely fit our needs. The County shall endeavor to increase
utilization of protected class firms. Because use of such services is not programmed or
predictable, a "best effort" standard shall be used for attainment of the goal amounts.

Sec. 34-28379. Other Federal and State regulations.
Nothing in this division shall be interpreted to diminish or supplant equal employment
opportunity requirements contained in Federal or State grant funded contracts.
Sec. 34-2840.

Preference to residents of County.

In addition to the goals established pursuant to Section 34-280, there is established as a goal that
on any contract approved by the County Board there will be utilization of at least 50 percent bona fide
County residents and 30 percent minorities in each trade for each project awarded by the County and in
the aggregated workforce in each project five percent will be females.
Sec. 34-2851.

Reporting and review Preference to Service-Disabled Veteran Businesses.

The County Board directs the Contract Compliance Administrator to report to the County Board on an
annual basis with respect to the following:
(1)

The level of Protected Class Enterprise participation achieved in each year in County
contracts subject to this division;

(2)

The then current estimated availability of Protected Class Enterprises to perform County
contracts;

(3)

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the article in ensuring full and equitable
participation by Protected Class Enterprises in County contracts and in mitigating the
competitive disadvantage suffered by Minority Business Enterprises and Women's

26

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Business Enterprises due to the present effects of discrimination in the local economy and
award public contracts;
(4)

An assessment of the continuing need for utilization goals for specific types of goods and
services used in County contracts;

(5)

Identification of any enforcement problems; and

(6)

Any recommendations with respect to improving the County's effectiveness in remedying
the effects of discrimination against Minority Business Enterprises and Women's
Business Enterprises and/or discontinuing or modifying any affirmative action
requirements in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises and Women's Business
Enterprises no longer are disadvantaged by the effects of discrimination in their
participation in County contracts.

(a)

Definitions. For the purposes of this section:

The term service-disabled means, with respect to disability, that the disability was incurred or
aggravated in the line of duty in the active service in the United States Armed Forces;
The term service-disabled veteran means a veteran who served in the active military, naval, or air
service, and who was discharged or released there from under conditions other than dishonorable, with a
disability that is service-connected, such that the disability was incurred or aggravated in the line of duty
in the active military, naval, or air service;
The term service-disabled veteran business means a small business concern owned and controlled
by service-disabled veterans such that:
(1)

not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(2)

the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more
service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a veteran with permanent and severe
disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

The term small business concern shall be deemed to be one which is independently owned and
operated and which is not dominant in its field of operation.
(b)
The goals in this section shall be identical to the goals in Section 34-280 of this Code. In
addition to the goals established pursuant to Section 34-280, there is established as a goal that on any
contract approved by the County Board there will be utilization of at least 3 percent service-disabled
veteran businesses of the annual aggregate value of all contracts awarded by the County.
(c)
County procurement personnel will make their best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and
make purchases from qualified service-disabled veteran businesses.
(d)
The above stated percentage relates to the total dollar amount of County contracts during
each fiscal year calculated by examining independently each type of contract.
(e)
The above stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate
against any person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
Sec. 34-282.

Reporting and review.

27

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

The County Board directs the Contract Compliance Administrator to report to the County Board
on an annual basis with respect to the following:
(1)

The level of Protected Class Enterprise participation achieved in each year in County
contracts subject to this division;

(2)

The then current estimated availability of Protected Class Enterprises to perform County
contracts;

(3)

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the article in ensuring full and equitable
participation by Protected Class Enterprises in County contracts and in mitigating the
competitive disadvantage suffered by Minority Business Enterprises and Women's
Business Enterprises due to the present effects of discrimination in the local economy and
award public contracts;

(4)

An assessment of the continuing need for utilization goals for specific types of goods and
services used in County contracts;

(5)

Identification of any enforcement problems; and

(6)

Any recommendations with respect to improving the County's effectiveness in remedying
the effects of discrimination against Minority Business Enterprises and Women's
Business Enterprises and/or discontinuing or modifying any affirmative action
requirements in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises and Women's Business
Enterprises no longer are disadvantaged by the effects of discrimination in their
participation in County contracts.

Secs. 34-283-34-285. Reserved.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri moved to accept the Substitute Proposed
Ordinance Amendment.
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance be
referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations. (Comm. No.
308429). The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SUBMITTING A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE OF
ETHICAL CONDUCT ORDINANCE DEALING WITH THE LIMITATION OF
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CANDIDATES AND ELECTED OFFICIALS

28

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Subdivision II Code of Ethical Conduct, Section
2-585 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-585.

Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected officials.

(a)
No Any person who has done business with the County within the preceding four years
or is seeking to do business with the County or is a lobbyist registered with the County shall not make
campaign contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00 the following amounts:
(1)

To Any candidate for County office or elected County official, to any local, state or
federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or established in support of, a
candidate for County office or elected County official during a single candidacy the
period January 1 through June 30 of any year in which the candidate is seeking
nomination or election to a county office; or

(2)

To an elected official of the government of the County during any nonelection year of his
or her term. A combined total of $750 to any candidate for County office or elected
County official, to any local, state or federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or
established in support of, a candidate for County office or elected County official during
the period July 1 through December 31 of any year in which the candidate is seeking
nomination or election to a county office; or

(3)

To any local, state, or federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or established in
support of, a candidate for County office or an elected County official A combined total
of $750 to an elected official of the government of Cook County, to any local, state or
federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or established in support of, an elected
County official during any nonelection year of his or her term.
The combined effect of these provisions is intended to permit total contribution up to, but
not exceeding, $1,500.00 in a year in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes of
this section, is from January 1 to December 31 of each year.

(b)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, an entity and its subsidiaries, parent
company or otherwise affiliated companies, and any of their employees, officers, directors and partners
who make a political contribution for which they are reimbursed by the entity or its affiliates shall be
considered a single person. However, nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit such an
employee, officer, director or partner from making a political contribution for which he is not reimbursed
by a person with whom he or she is affiliated, even if that person has made the maximum contribution
allowed under Subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
Any contributions made under this section shall be reported as required by the Election
Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
(d)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, "done business" or "doing business" means
any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or contracts to, from or with the County or any
County agency in excess of $10,000.00 in any 12-consecutive months. "Done business" or "doing
business" also means representation involving real property assessments, property tax appeals, zoning
matters, and property tax incentives, the total fees of which earned or accrued by a person exceed
$10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive months during the previous four years.

29

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

(e)
To the extent that the Zoning Board, Zoning Administrator, Board of Review and County
Assessor may be covered by the provisions herein each shall provide notice of the ethics disclosure
requirements as set forth above. The notice should include a statement that any attorney or tax
representative who has done business with any of these agencies and earned or accrued greater than
$10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive months during the previous four years as result, must adhere to the
campaign contribution limitations set forth by the Cook County Ethics Ordinance.
The Board of Ethics shall adopt such rules and regulations as necessary to implement this section.
(f)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, "seeking to do business" means taking
action within the past six months to obtain a contract or business with the County when, if such action
were successful, it would result in the person doing business with the County as defined in Subsection (d)
of this section.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308454). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, TIMOTHY SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, LARRY SUFFREDIN and ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Subdivision II Code of Ethical Conduct, Section
2-583 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-583.

Political activity.

(a)
No official or employee shall compel, coerce or intimidate any County official or
employee to make or refrain from making any political contribution. No official shall directly solicit any
political contribution from his or her employees or the spouses of or immediate family living with his or
her employees. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent any official or employee from
voluntarily making a contribution or from receiving a voluntary contribution.
(b)
No employee with contract management authority shall serve on the political fundraising
committee of any elected official or candidate for County office.

30

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(c)
County employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited political activity during
any compensated time (other than vacation, personal, or compensatory time off). County employees or
officials shall not intentionally misappropriate any County property or resources by engaging in any
prohibited political activity for the benefit of any campaign for elective office or any political
organization.
(d)
At no time shall any official or employee intentionally misappropriate the services of any
County employee by requiring that employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
(1)

As part of that employee's County duties;

(2)

As a condition of County employment; or

(3)

During any time off that is compensated by the County (such as vacation, personal, or
compensatory time off).

(e)
A County employee shall not be required at any time to participate in any prohibited
political activity in consideration for that employee being awarded any additional compensation or
employee benefit, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued
employment, or otherwise.
(f)
A County employee shall not be awarded any additional compensation or employee
benefit, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, in consideration for the employee's participation in any prohibited political activity.
(g)
Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise appropriate for a County
employee to engage in as a part of his or her official County employment duties or activities that are
undertaken by an employee on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308457). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, TIMOTHY SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, LARRY SUFFREDIN and ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

31

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Subdivision II Code of Ethical Conduct, Section
2-585 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-585.

Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected officials.

(a)
No person who has done business with the County within the preceding four years or is
seeking to do business with the County or is a lobbyist registered with the County shall make
contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00:
(1)

To any candidate for County office or elected County official during a single candidacy;
or

(2)

To an elected official of the government of the County during any nonelection year of his
or her term.

(3)

To any local, state, or federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or established in
support of, a candidate for County office or an elected County official.
The combined effect of these provisions is intended to permit total contribution up to, but
not exceeding, $1,500.00 in a year in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes of
this section, is from January 1 to December 31 of each year.

(b)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, an entity and its subsidiaries, parent
company or otherwise affiliated companies, and any of their employees, officers, directors and partners
who make a political contribution for which they are reimbursed by the entity or its affiliates shall be
considered a single person. However, nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit such an
employee, officer, director or partner from making a political contribution for which he is not reimbursed
by a person with whom he or she is affiliated, even if that person has made the maximum contribution
allowed under Subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
Any contributions made under this section shall be reported as required by the Election
Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
(d)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, "done business" or "doing business" means
any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or contracts to, from or with the County or any
County agency in excess of $10,000.00 in any 12-consecutive months. "Done business" or "doing
business" also means representation involving real property assessments, property tax appeals, zoning
matters, and property tax incentives, the total fees of which earned or accrued by a person exceed
$10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive months during the previous four years.
(e)
To the extent that the Zoning Board, Zoning Administrator, Board of Review and County
Assessor may be covered by the provisions herein each shall provide notice of the ethics disclosure
requirements as set forth above. The notice should include a statement that any attorney or tax
representative who has done business with any of these agencies and earned or accrued greater than
$10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive months during the previous four years as result, must adhere to the
campaign contribution limitations set forth by the Cook County Ethics Ordinance. The Zoning Board,
Zoning Administrator, Board of Review and County Assessor shall provide a list to the Board of Ethics,
updated quarterly, of attorneys, law firms, and tax representatives filing appeals at their office.
The Board of Ethics shall adopt such rules and regulations as necessary to implement this section.

32

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(f)
For purposes of Subsection (a) of this section, "seeking to do business" means taking
action within the past six months to obtain a contract or business with the County when, if such action
were successful, it would result in the person doing business with the County as defined in Subsection (d)
of this section.
(g)
Any candidate for County Assessor or Board of Review shall return contributions found
in excess of the limitations set forth in this section within 30 days of notification from the Board of
Ethics. Failure to return contributions within 30 days shall be a violation of this section and subject to
fines under section 2-602(d).
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308458). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, TIMOTHY SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, LARRY SUFFREDIN and ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Subdivision V Sanctions for Violation, Section 2602 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-602.

Fines.

(a)
As authorized by the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, the Board may impose a
fine of up to $5,000.00 per violation against any person found by the Board to have violated, intentionally
obstructed or interfered with an investigation of, or intentionally made a false, frivolous or bad faith
allegation under Section 2-574 or 2-583.
(b)
As authorized by the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, a person who
intentionally violates any provision of Section 2-574 is guilty of a business offense and subject upon
conviction to a fine of at least $1,001.00 and up to $5,000.00.
(c)
As authorized by the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, a person who
intentionally violates any provision of Section 2-583 is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(d)
Any person found by the Board to have knowingly violated any provision of this article
other than Section 2-574 or 2-583, or to have knowingly furnished false or misleading information to the

33

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Board, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed of at least $500.00 and up to $5,000.00, for any one
offense.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308459). The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SUBMITTING A PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2-622
OF THE COOK COUNTY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article VII Ethics, Division 3 Lobbyist, Subdivision I In General, Section 2-622 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-622.

Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative action means the execution or rejection of any rule, regulation, legislative rule,
standard, fee, rate, contractual agreement, purchasing agreement or other delegated legislative or quasilegislative action to be taken or withheld by any County official or County employee.
Board means the County Board and any and all of its standing or special committees or
subcommittees.
Clerk means the duly elected or appointed Clerk of the County.
Commissioner means any of the duly elected or duly appointed County Board members.
Compensation means money, thing of value or other pecuniary benefits received or to be received
in return for, or as reimbursement for, or as a result of, services rendered or to be rendered, for lobbying.
This includes a contract, promise or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable, to provide or arrange
for compensation for services rendered or to be rendered.
County agency means any board, commission, department or authority under the jurisdiction of
the President or Board or any other County official.

34

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

County employee means an individual employed by the County whether part-time or full-time.
County matter means any executive action, legislative action or administrative action.
County official means the Assessor, members of the Board of (Tax) Appeals, Clerk of the Circuit
Court, Clerk, Commissioners, President, Recorder of Deeds, Sheriff, State's Attorney, Regional
Superintendent of Schools and Treasurer of the County, and any County agency or member thereof.
Executive action means the proposal, drafting, development, consideration, amendment, adoption,
approval, promulgation, issuance, modification, rejection or postponement by a County official or County
employee of a rule, regulation, order, decision, determination, contractual agreement, purchasing
agreement or other quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial action or proceeding.
Expenditure means anything having a value of $10.00 or more including, but not limited to, a
payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, political contribution, honoraria, travel or entertainment
expense, meal or beverage expense, or gift of money. This includes a contract, promise, or agreement,
whether or not legally enforceable, to make an expenditure, for services rendered or to be rendered.
File, filed or filing means:
(1)

Delivery to an office of the Clerk by the close of business of the prescribed filing date; or

(2)

Deposit with the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, in sufficient time so that
the mailed documents arrive at an office of the Clerk by the close of business of the
prescribed filing date.

Gift means anything having a value of $10.00 or more given without consideration or expectation
of return.
Legislation means ordinances, resolutions, amendments, nominations, appointments, reports,
contracts or proposed contracts, and other matters pending or proposed in the Board or which require
Board approval.
Legislative action means the development, drafting, introduction, consideration, modification,
adoption, rejection, review, enactment, or passage or defeat of any ordinance, amendment, motion,
resolution, report, nomination, administrative rule or other matter by any County official or County
employee. The term "legislative action" also means the action of the President in approving or vetoing
any ordinance, resolution or motion or portion thereof, and the action of any County official or County
employee in the development of a proposal for introduction before the Board.
Lobby or lobbying means to, for compensation, attempt to influence a County official or County
employee with respect to any County matter.
Lobbyist means any person who lobbies., on behalf of any person other than himself, or as any
part of his duties as an employee of another, undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative
action, including but not limited to:
(1)

A bond inducement ordinance;

(2)

A zoning matter;

35

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

(3)

A concession agreement;

(4)

The creation of a tax increment financing district;

(5)

The establishment of a Class 6(b) Cook County property tax classification;

(6)

The introduction, passage or other action to be taken on an ordinance, resolution, motion,
order, appointment or other matter before the cook county board of commissioners;

(7)

The preparation of contract specifications;

(8)

The solicitation, award or administration of a contract;

(9)

The award or administration of a grant, loan, or other agreement involving the
disbursement of public monies; or

(10)

Any other determination made by an elected or appointed county official or employee of
the county with respect to the procurement of goods, services or construction.

Provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed to have undertaken to influence any
legislative or administrative action solely by submitting an application for a county permit or license or by
responding to a county request for proposals or qualifications.
The term “lobbyist” shall include, but not be limited to, any attorney, accountant, or consultant
engaged in the above-described activities; provided, however, that an attorney shall not be considered a
lobbyist while representing clients in a formal adversarial hearing, unless said attorney is also an elected
official of the county; and provided further that the term “lobbyist” shall not include a person who, on an
unpaid basis, seeks to influence legislative or administrative action on behalf of an entity that is not
engaged in a profit-seeking enterprise; further provided that an employee, officer or director of a not-forprofit entity who seeks to influence legislative or administrative action on behalf of such an entity shall
not be considered a lobbyist for purposes of this chapter.
Person means any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm, association, union, trust,
estate, as well as any parent or subsidiary of any of the foregoing, and whether or not operated for profit.
Political contribution means any money or thing of value given to a political committee, as
defined in 10 ILCS 5/9-1.9 (political committee defined), in the County.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Ordinance
Amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308460). The motion carried
unanimously.
ORDINANCE
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by

36

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

JOHN P. DALEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
JERRY BUTLER, EARLEAN COLLINS, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN and
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE DEALING WITH TRANSITION IN THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article II President of the County Board, Section 2-43 be enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-43.
Because the general election is held on the first Tuesday of November and the new term of any
county elected official begins on the first Monday of December, then at any general election for the office
of President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners where the incumbent President is not elected,
the President, not more than 1 day after such election, shall provide space located at the George W.
Dunne Cook County Office Building, 69 West Washington, Chicago, Illinois, for not more than 5 persons
designated by the President-elect to enable the President-elect to begin a review and analysis of budgeted
expenditures during the then current budget and budget requests for the ensuing budget and to acquire a
working knowledge of the various offices, departments, commissions, boards and other agencies of
County government. The President shall cooperate with the President-elect and the staff so designated
and provide on the first day after such election any assistance that may be reasonably requested,
including, but not limited to, reports from all the various offices, departments, commissions, boards and
other agencies of County government on the current operations and budgets. If the outcome of the
election is in doubt 1 day after such election, then all information, services and assistance mentioned
above shall be provided to all candidates who have a reasonable chance of being declared President-elect.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
_________________________

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to amend the Proposed
Ordinance. The motion to amend carried unanimously.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the Ordinance be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
JERRY BUTLER, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County
Commissioners

37

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO REVISE MEDICAID RULES
WHEREAS, current State of Illinois Medicaid policy calls for termination of Medicaid and SSI benefits
upon the incarceration of an adult or juvenile; and
WHEREAS, this policy creates problems because the need for ongoing medical treatment after parole
and reentry into the community is high; and
WHEREAS, among juveniles detained youth present with higher rates of substance abuse, acute
illnesses, sexually transmitted diseases, unplanned pregnancies and psychiatric disorders; and
WHEREAS, among adult populations the present policy of terminating Medicaid and SSI
disproportionately affects the mentally ill and indigent; and
WHEREAS, terminating SSI and Medicaid benefits forces these individuals upon release to reapply for
benefits, an intensive and time-consuming process in which they often go without treatment for extended
periods of time when they leave the system; and
WHEREAS, adopting a policy to suspend, rather than terminate, SSI and Medicaid benefits would help
to alleviate the gap for needed benefits for those reentering the community; and
WHEREAS, federal law does not require the termination of benefits, and in a letter to all state Medicaid
directors from May 25, 2004, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services “encouraged all states to
suspend and not terminate Medicaid benefits while a person is in a public institution” so that the
individual may begin to receive benefits immediately after release; and
WHEREAS, the states of Florida, Oregon and Minnesota have all moved to revise their policies to
suspend rather than terminate an individual’s Medicaid or SSI status when they enter a public institution.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that President Todd Stroger and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby urge the Illinois General Assembly to act swiftly to revise state policy and
move to suspend, rather than terminate, Medicaid and SSI benefits so an individual shall continue to be
eligible upon release from a public institution; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this Resolution be forwarded to the Illinois General
Assembly.
_________________________
This item was WITHDRAWN at the request of the sponsor.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

38

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, especially west suburban Cook County, has experienced two major
floods in the last two years; and
WHEREAS, many residents lack the resources to make the necessary repairs to their homes caused by
the damage of the 2008 flood; and
WHEREAS, the Federal government provided the State of Illinois, Cook County, 10.3 million dollars
to be utilized for residents impacted by the 2008 flood; and
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois, Cook County, appreciate the assistance of the Federal government’s
10.3 million dollars, however, the time allotted for documenting and processing claims is not sufficient
to allocate all of the dollars; and
WHEREAS, many of the residents who received money from the 2008 floods and were in the process
of making the necessary repairs to their homes were further damaged by the 2010 flood especially in
cases where the work was not completed; and
WHEREAS, we call upon the Governor of the State of Illinois to call upon Congress to extend the cut
of date for allocation of 2008 funds until the end of September to utilize the unallocated funds for those
residents whose work was not completed and whose property was further damaged by the 2010 flood
which will cause an increase in the cost for repairs.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners call upon the Governor of the State of Illinois to call upon the federal government to
extend the cut off date for the allocation of the 2008 funds until the end of September; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be sent to the President of the
United States, leadership of the US Congress, house and senate, and the entire Illinois delegation.
_________________________
This item was WITHDRAWN at the request of the sponsor.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
FORREST CLAYPOOL, BRIDGET GAINER, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREG GOSLIN,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

39

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
A RESOLUTION CALLING ON THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
TO REMOVE THE UNNECESSARY PROVISION THAT REQUIRES
SENIORS IN COOK COUNTY TO REAPPLY FOR THE
SENIOR CITIZEN HOMEOWNER’S EXEMPTION EACH YEAR
WHEREAS, more than 284,000 senior citizens in Cook County benefit from the Senior Citizen
Homeowner’s Exemption each year, a valuable and important form of property tax relief; and
WHEREAS, the Senior Exemption can reduce a senior’s property tax bill by several hundred dollars,
with 2008 tax bill savings ranging from $158 to $823; and
WHEREAS, in tax year 2007, the Cook County Assessor’s Office stopped requiring seniors 65 years or
older to apply annually for the Exemption and therefore saved additional processing and mailing costs;
and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Assessor took this step in order to make the process easier for seniors to
avail themselves of the Exemption since no one gets younger; and
WHEREAS, the Assessor re-verifies the Exemption whenever a deed transfer occurs on a property
receiving the Exemption; and
WHEREAS, the Exemption has no income requirement and requires only that the taxpayer be 65 or older
and own the house that is their principal residence; and
WHEREAS, legislation recently passed by the General Assembly now requires seniors to reapply every
year for the Exemption, creating an unnecessary obstacle for them; and
WHEREAS, this requirement was mandated only for Cook County and does not apply to any other
assessor’s office or county office in Illinois; and
WHEREAS, this requirement will place an unfunded mandate on the County and require the County to
expend unnecessary funds for publications, mailings and administration of the Exemption during an
economic period where any and all unnecessary expenses to taxpayers should be taken under high
consideration; and
WHEREAS, every time a major change in an exemption application process has occurred it has resulted
in confusion and missed property tax savings, especially for those exemptions specifically targeted for the
senior citizen population.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners urge the
General Assembly to promptly reconsider this onerous provision imposed upon the senior population of
Cook County and remedy this unnecessary provision by enacting further legislation allowing for the
Assessor to maintain the practice of verification they have installed which allowed for automatic renewal
of this valuable property tax relief for Cook County senior citizens.
_________________________
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the Proposed Resolution be
referred to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308430). The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *

40

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, our existing Emergency Management office has been doing a superb job in assisting the
2008 and 2010 flood victims with the limited resources that they have to work with. It is paramount that
Cook County establish a collaborative funding source to minimize the impact of future flooding; and
WHEREAS, it is evident that the antiquated infrastructure system in most of suburban Cook County
lacks the capacity to deal with water flow when there is heavy rain fall in a short period of time as was the
case in the 2008 and 2010 flood; and
WHEREAS, the Federal government, the State, the County and local municipalities have separate roles
in assisting with emergency management and each of these entities have a specific role and monies to
address certain emergencies. A collaborative effort among these agencies will allow Cook County to
better assist suburban municipalities in water drainage management.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners establish an Intergovernmental Task Force consisting of department heads from the
following agencies; Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, Cook County Department of Highways,
Bureau of Capital, Planning and Facilities Management, Homeland Security & Emergency Management,
the Cook County Bureau of Finance, and the Cook County Bureau of Community Development, to
review our existing emergency management systems to seek ways to improve emergency assistance and
minimize the impact of flooding in suburban Cook County.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Proposed Resolution be
referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations. (Comm. No.
308452). The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FUNDING
FOR METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT RESERVOIR PROJECTS

41

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Cook County has increasingly experienced flooding issues due to development and
inadequate flood retention areas; and
WHEREAS, these increasing flooding issues have caused tremendous damage to property and person;
and
WHEREAS, response and reaction to the flooding has been admirable from all levels of government; and
WHEREAS, all governments, working together, must take even greater measures to prevent such
frequent flooding with the assistance of federal and state funding.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the federal government must provide additional and
greater funding to complete water reservoir retention projects, through the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Governor and state legislature petition and request the federal
government to transfer remaining 2008 FEMA funds for 2010 program distribution; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the state government also assist in any funding to complete these
necessary reservoir projects and any other Metropolitan Water Reclamation District flood relief projects.
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, moved that the Proposed Resolution be
referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations. (Comm. No.
308453). The motion carried unanimously.

RESOLUTIONS
10-R-290
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
RESOLUTION REQUESTING A STATUS REPORT ON THE DISASTER RECOVERY
EFFORTS RELATED TO THE RECENT COOK COUNTY FLOODING DISASTER
WHEREAS, on Monday, July 26, 2010, Illinois Governor Pat Quinn declared 12 counties, including
Cook County, as state disaster areas; and
WHEREAS, on Tuesday, July 27, 2010, President Todd H. Stroger signed a proclamation declaring
Cook County a disaster area because of the damaging rains and flooding, steps taken in the process of
qualifying for federal aid; and

42

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, on Thursday, August 19, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Disaster Declaration for
the County of Cook authorizing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to begin the
process to help local residents throughout Cook County that were affected by the July 23rd and July 24th
flooding; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Homeland Security & Emergency Management (DHSEM)
is assisting FEMA and other local municipalities throughout Cook County with their efforts to help
residents recover from the flooding disaster; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of this Honorable Body to be informed about the status of these efforts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, does
hereby request that a Status Report on the disaster recovery efforts related to the recent Cook County
Flooding Disaster from the Cook County Department of Homeland Security & Emergency Management
and any other appropriate agency identified by DHSEM, as well as from officials of the affected Cook
County municipalities and townships regarding said efforts in their communities be provided to this
Honorable Body by the September 15, 2010 Board Meeting; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that said report is to be placed on the agenda of said meeting to be
referred to the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-291
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE EARLEAN COLLINS, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
A RESOLUTION CALLING UPON THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND CONGRESS TO REFOCUS STIMULUS MONEY TO PROJECTS DESIGNED
TO STIMULATE THE ECONOMY THROUGH JOB CREATION WHILE
SIMULTANEOUSLY MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF NATURAL DISASTERS
AND IMPROVING ANTIQUATED INFRASTRUCTURES OF LOCAL TOWNSHIPS
AND VILLAGES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and

43

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, our core mission is public safety, welfare and healthcare to the indigent. Dwindling
resources from the State and Federal government put a serious stain on the taxpayers of Cook County;
and
WHEREAS, we recognize the declining state of our national economy and its direct impact on our ability
to secure the necessary revenue to adequately fulfill our mission; and
WHEREAS, the President’s recognition of the need to stimulate the economy cannot go unappreciated
however, the magnitude and complexity of our economic crisis demand that we maximize the use of
every dollar by focusing less on give-a-ways and more towards greater opportunities for employment; and
WHEREAS, investing in projects that serve a dual purpose by using the same dollar to accomplish our
economic goals while at the same time addressing some of the most critical problems facing our nation
such as, unemployment, the impact of drastic climate changes, antiquated infrastructures, the over
dependency on foreign oil and the frequent occurrence of natural disasters; and
WHEREAS, all of these issues are critical to the growth and the vitality of our country and public safety
therefore, it is critical that we seek ways by which to solve multiple problems by using the same dollar.
Investing stimulus dollars in projects that empower people to support themselves would move us further
towards achieving the goals of economic stability.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners call upon the President of the United States and Congress to carefully consider
reinvesting stimulus money to critical public works projects; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be sent to each member of the
Illinois Congressional delegation, the President of the United States, the United States Senate and the
Speaker of the House.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-292
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,

44

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
EDWIN REYES, PETER N. SILVESTRI, PRESIDENT, TODD H. STROGER,
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
A RESOLUTION URGING THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
TO AWARD A GRANT TO THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FOR A STUDY AND EVALUATION OF A HIGH-SPEED RAIL CORRIDOR
BETWEEN CHICAGO AND ST. LOUIS
WHEREAS, the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) has submitted to the Federal Railroad
Administration a High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application request for $8.32 million
to conduct a feasibility study and evaluate a 220-mph high-speed rail corridor between Chicago and St.
Louis; and
WHEREAS, the Federal Railroad Administration has received 77 applications from 25 states for the
most recent round of HSIPR grant funding which will be awarded from the more than $2.3 billion
appropriated in FY 2010; and
WHEREAS, IDOT’s comprehensive plan will include a market study, ridership forecasting, a suggested
implementation strategy, a full comparison of the route alternatives between Chicago and St. Louis, a
determination of which route is the most efficient and which would have the lowest capital and operating
costs, a study of which route would generate the highest ridership, and a Tier One Environmental Impact
Statement; and
WHEREAS, IDOT will also adhere to important Davis-Bacon fair-wage labor standards as required in
federally-assisted construction sub-agreements; and
WHEREAS, as in Europe and Asia, the United States must have high-speed trains on their own
dedicated tracks, powered by electricity, not shared or owned by freight lines, and capable of traveling
220-mph to connect our city centers together; and
WHEREAS, only true high-speed rail will wean the American public away from their automobiles,
reduce carbon emissions, reduce dependence on foreign oil, and relieve highway and airport congestion;
and
WHEREAS, a true American high-speed train project would complement the Amtrak rail line - not
hinder its customer base, due to the ever-increasing Midwest demand for alternative methods of
transportation; and
WHEREAS, funding this project would fulfill the President’s goal of creating jobs, strengthening and
diversifying our Nation’s transportation infrastructure system, and provide an environmentally-friendly
transportation alternative to Americans in the Midwest.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County urges the
Federal Railroad Administration and the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to fully consider IDOT’s grant
request and award $8.32 million to IDOT for high-speed rail corridor planning activities; and

45

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to U.S. Secretary of
Transportation Ray LaHood, members of the Illinois Congressional delegation, Illinois Governor Pat
Quinn, Federal Railroad Administrator Joseph Szabo, and Illinois DOT Secretary Gary Hannig and may it
also be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable Body.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
RESOLUTION
10-R-293
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
PROCLAIMING SEPTEMBER 2010 AS JALISCO CULTURAL MONTH IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, Jaliscienses, the people from the State of Jalisco, Mexico, represent one of the largest
groups of Mexicans living in the United States; and
WHEREAS, approximately 200,000 Jaliscienses have chosen the State of Illinois as their newly adopted
home; and
WHEREAS, the Federación Jalisciense del Medio Oeste de Los Estados Unidos, FEDEJAL, is a non-forprofit organization that promotes the well being and the advancements of Jaliscienses in the Midwest, as
well as Mexico, through educational, cultural, civic and social projects; and
WHEREAS, FEDEJAL’s purpose is to build bridges between Mexican-Americans in the United States
and Mexicans in their native State of Jalisco, to improve communities on both sides of the border
therefore strengthening both countries and improving the lives of all people; and
WHEREAS, in the month of September, coinciding with the celebration of Mexico’s Bicentennial
celebration of their Independence, FEDEJAL will host the grand opening of Casa Jalisco in Melrose Park,
Illinois, which will serve as a social, cultural, and economic development center for the community; and
WHEREAS, this year, the Honorable Emilio González Márquez, Governor of the Mexican State of
Jalisco, will visit the County of Cook from September 4th through the 7th to join the Jaliscienses of our
area in the annual commemoration that brings together Jaliscienses from all over the region and to share
and celebrate the rich culture of Jalisco with the residents of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the music, food, and traditions of Mexican and Hispanic culture have enriched the United
States, as have the cultures of other immigrant groups in the past. Children of immigrants appreciate and

46

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
share with their community their families’ historical roots, merging them with the culture in which they
are being raised.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, does
hereby proclaim September 2010 as Jalisco Cultural Month in Cook County, in recognition of the
numerous cultural and economic contributions made by Jalisco’s culture to the growth and development
of our country, to celebrate the opening of Casa Jalisco in Melrose Park, Illinois, and in support of the
Federación Jalisciense del Medio Oeste de los Estados Unidos, FEDEJAL; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body and an official copy of same be tendered to the Honorable Emilio González Márquez, Governor of
Jalisco and to Sergio Suárez, President of FEDEJAL to commemorate this momentous occasion.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(z)(1) Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to suspend Section 2-108(h)(1)
Prior notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

CONSENT CALENDAR
10-R-294
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, Labor Day, celebrated annually in the United States on the first Monday of September, is a
unique holiday; it does not honor any individual, sect, race or nation; and

47

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, rather, the Labor Day holiday celebrates the American worker, and all that he contributes to
the vitality, strength and prosperity of our country and its economy; and
WHEREAS, a creation of the labor movement, the first Labor Day holiday was celebrated on Tuesday,
September 5, 1882 in New York City, according to the plans of the Central Labor Union; the Central
Labor Union held its second Labor Day holiday a year later, on September 5, 1883; and
WHEREAS, in terms of Labor Day legislation, a movement grew to secure state legislation, and the first
state bill was introduced into the New York legislature; by 1884, 23 other states had adopted the holiday;
additionally, multiple municipal ordinances were passed during 1885 and 1886; and
WHEREAS, in June 28, 1884 Congress passed an act making the first Monday in September of each
year a legal holiday in the District of Columbia and the territories.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, do hereby enjoin all resident of Cook County on Labor Day, Monday,
September 6, 2010, to be cognizant of and celebrate the diverse and dedicated work that goes into making
our nation socially and economically robust.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-295
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called a beloved woman, Ondi Outerbridge
Norman, from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman was born on August 29, 1951; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman grew up in Williamston, North Carolina; and

48

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman graduated with honors from Livingstone College in Salisbury, North
Carolina; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman met the love of her life, Art Norman, in Charlotte, North Carolina, just as she
began her teaching career; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman taught in the public schools in the various communities in which her husband
worked in broadcasting; she won awards for elementary school teaching in Baltimore, Maryland,
Evanston, Illinois and Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, in losing Mrs. Norman we have lost too soon a vibrant and generous woman; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Norman leaves to mourn her soul mate, Art Norman, beloved family members and a
host of friends; and
WHEREAS, Ondi Outerbridge Norman will be forever cherished in the hearts of those whom she
touched and loved.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five
million residents of Cook County, hereby do express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt
sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Ondi Outerbridge Norman, and
may a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered herewith.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-296
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Institute for Juvenile Research (IJR) is celebrating its 100th anniversary on October 1,
2010; and

49

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, the first child guidance clinic in the United States, the IJR was founded in 1909 as part of
Chicago’s first juvenile court; in 1990 the IJR came under the auspices of the Department of Psychiatry at
the College of Medicine at the University of Illinois at Chicago; and
WHEREAS, since its inception, the IJR has been at the forefront of research in the prevention of and
intervention in brain disorders in children; and
WHEREAS, the IJR provides a broad spectrum of innovative mental health services to children,
adolescents and their families; and
WHEREAS, those at the highest level of policy making, locally and nationally, draw on the IJR’s wellresearched findings; and
WHEREAS, the IJR is a fertile training ground for those dedicated to the fields of child psychiatry and
child psychology; the IJR was the second psychology training program to come into existence in the
United States, and one of the first sites to train child psychiatrists in the United States.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Institute for Juvenile Research is to be lauded and
commended for the comprehensive, profoundly important work it has undertaken over the past 100 years
in fighting for children with mental illness; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby
congratulate the Institute for Juvenile Research on its 100th Anniversary, do wish the Institute for
Juvenile Research continued success, and do express my appreciation for all that the Institute for Juvenile
Research is doing to transform the lives of youth across Cook County.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-297
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

50

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called a beloved woman possessed of a beautiful
spirit, Doris J. Smith, from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith was born in Chicago, Illinois on January 12, 1925 as Doris Ingram; she was a
lifelong resident of Chicago’s South Side; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith was a 1943 graduate of Chicago’s DuSable High School; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith married the love of her life, Freddie, in 1955; they shared over 50 years of
marriage until Freddie passed away in 2006; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith enjoyed a long career at the Chicago Park District and the Chicago Board of
Education; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith was active in Democratic politics; she worked in the area of voter registration
and was on many occasions an elections judge; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith was a dedicated member of the South Side NAACP during the tumultuous
1960s and early 1970s; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith was a devoted member of Trinity United Church of Christ; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith loved to travel, be it in the United States, Europe, or the Caribbean; another
pastime she enjoyed was cooking, and she was excellent at it; and
WHEREAS, Mrs. Smith leaves to mourn four children, Frederick (Cheryl) Smith, Cordell Smith, Cheryl
Hillsman and Ava Hillsman, and a host of grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces, nephews, cousins,
one brother and two sisters.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Doris J. Smith’s memory shall be cherished in all of
the hearts of the people she touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five million
residents of Cook County, do hereby express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the
family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Doris J. Smith, and may a suitable copy of this
Resolution be tendered to the family of Doris J. Smith so that her rich legacy may be so honored and ever
cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.

51

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

* * * * *
10-R-298
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., founded in 1906 at Cornell University, made history by
being the first African-American, intercollegiate, Greek-letter organization in the United States; and
WHEREAS, the founders of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., known as the “Seven Jewels,” envisioned
a fraternity that would provide academic assistance and social support for minority students who were
encountering racial prejudice academically and socially; and
WHEREAS, today, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. has over 180,000 life members in over 680 chapters
across the United States; and
WHEREAS, the Theta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., created in 1910, has served our
community extensively through community and public service programs; and
WHEREAS, on August 21, 2010, the Theta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. is celebrating the
100th anniversary of its founding at a Centennial Gala; the theme of the Centennial Gala is “Alpha Style,
Theta’s Way – Celebrating the Tradition”; and
WHEREAS, during its Centennial Gala, the Theta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. is
honoring a select group of individuals who have contributed in remarkable ways to our community; these
Community Service Awardees include Pastor Otis Moss III in the area of faith, inspiration and religion;
Dr. Terry Mason in the area of arts, health and sciences; Tim King in the area of education and higher
learning; Stephanie D. Neely in the area of community service and politics; The Honorable John O. Steele
in the area of law and justice; and Cheryl Pearson-McNeil in the area of publishing and journalism; and
WHEREAS, through their combined service, the Theta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and
the above-mentioned Awardees have effectuated transformative, praiseworthy change in our society.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, and on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do
hereby express my sincere appreciation for all the work undertaken by the Theta Chapter of Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity, Inc., and the Gala’s Community Service Awardees on behalf of the betterment of
society, and wish these same every continued success, and may a suitable copy of this Resolution be
tendered herewith.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President

52

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-299
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AND TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called Michael V. Coletta, Sr. from our midst;
and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was the beloved husband of Sharon (nee Sabbia); and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was the loving father of Catherine and Michael, Jr. (Andrea); and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was the dear papa of Michael, Angela, Isabella and Mikey; and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr., dear brother of Lavergne (Ben) Damico, Marykay (Jack) Galvin
and twin brother of the late Mariano, dear brother-in-law to Marie (RC) Arcieri, Linda (Charles) Catino
and Angela (James) Macchione; and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was known for his compassion and caring manner in his role as coowner of Michael Coletta Sons Funeral Home, one of Chicago’s most respected and oldest providers of
bereavement services; and
WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was a highly regarded member of his community, and could always
be relied upon to assist neighbors in need; and

53

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was a proud member in good standing of St. Albert the Great
Knights of Columbus, Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, and the Old Neighborhood Italian American
Club; and
WHEREAS, all who knew him will attest that Michael V. Coletta, Sr. was a kind and compassionate
man, virtuous of character and gentle in spirit, admired and respected by his many friends and neighbors,
and dearly loved by his family.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board does hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and many
friends of Michael V. Coletta, Sr., and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and a suitable copy of same be tendered to the family of Michael V. Coletta, Sr., that his memory
may be so honored and ever cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-300
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AND TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

54

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called Frances Kozlar from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Frances Kozlar (nee Bonomo) was the loving mother of Steven (Anne), Kenneth (Nancy),
Jan, and Joseph (Sheri); and
WHEREAS, Frances Kozlar was the fond grandmother of 13, great-grandmother of three; and
WHEREAS, Frances Kozlar was a shining example of a life dedicated to serving others, and was blessed
with many gifts she shared unselfishly with all who knew her; and
WHEREAS, Frances Kozlar was a loyal and devoted volunteer at Mercy Hospital for 30 years, and in
this capacity she touched countless lives with her kindness and compassionate nature; and
WHEREAS, all who knew her will attest that Frances Kozlar was a kind and compassionate woman,
virtuous of character and gentle in spirit, admired and respected by her many friends and neighbors, and
dearly loved by her family.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board does hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and many
friends of Frances Kozlar, and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and a suitable copy of same be tendered to the family of Frances Kozlar, that her memory may be
so honored and ever cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-301
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AND TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,

55

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called Phillip S. Krone from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was the beloved husband of Joan E. Powell; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was the devoted father of James Krone; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was an influential policy adviser to numerous elected and appointed
officials in his hometown of Chicago, Illinois and throughout the world; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone began his love of politics and government at an early age, serving as a
volunteer on the campaign of Governor Adlai E. Stevenson, II at age 10; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was proud of his ability to work with both major political parties, and was
a key adviser to both Republican and Democratic candidates for office; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was known for his fondness for historic buildings, and is credited with
saving many vintage structures in neighborhoods throughout Chicago that might otherwise have fallen to
the wrecking ball; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was a world traveler, having recently visited the Mideast, Morocco,
London, France, and China; and
WHEREAS, Phillip S. Krone was a unique and engaging personality, with an endless supply of
fascinating and often humorous tales from an insider’s perspective on the colorful world of Chicago,
Illinois politics; and
WHEREAS, all who knew him will attest that Phillip S. Krone was a kind and compassionate man,
virtuous of character and gentle in spirit, admired and respected by his many friends and neighbors, and
dearly loved by his family.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board does hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family and many
friends of Phillip S. Krone, and joins them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and a suitable copy of same be tendered to the family of Phillip S. Krone, that his memory may be
so honored and ever cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

56

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-302
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE EDWIN REYES, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
HONORING HIPOLITO (PAUL) ROLDAN
WHEREAS, Paul Roldan is currently the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hispanic Housing
Development Corporation; and
WHEREAS, Paul Roldan, a resident of Chicago the last 31 years, received his B.A. from St. Francis
College and Masters degree in Urban Studies from Long Island University in New York; and
WHEREAS, Paul Roldan was awarded a Bronze Star with "V Device" for combat valor for actions in
Vietnam; and
WHEREAS, Paul Roldan has led Hispanic Housing Development Corporation (HHDC) since 1976. As
HHDC's chief executive officer and first employee, he has developed more than 3,100 affordable units of
housing and over 82,000 square feet of commercial space. He also directed the formation of a property
management operation, which currently manages over 4,600 residential units in communities throughout
Illinois, and established Tropic Construction Corp., a residential and commercial builder; and
WHEREAS, In 1988, Mr. Roldan was awarded a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
Fellowship for his work in community development. He committed $100,000 of his fellowship award to
the establishment of the Teresa and Hipolito Roldan Scholarship to support Latinos who are studying
community development; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Roldan serves on a number of boards and committees including the Chicago Board of
the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, National Puerto Rican Coalition, Mayor Daley’s Green Ribbon
Committee for Climate Change, Division Street Business Development Association, Chicago United,
Latino Policy Forum, MB Financial, N.A., the Housing Partnership Network, and The Institute of Puerto
Rican Arts and Culture. He was an inner-city advisor and a former national trustee of the Urban Land
Institute, he is an Illinois Director of Seguros Multiples, a board member of the Boston-based The
Community Builders and of Governor Pat Quinn's Taxpayer Action Board; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Roldan was a participant in President Bill Clinton's Economic Conferences held in
Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1992 and Columbus, Ohio, in 1995. In 2006, Mr. Roldan coauthored Casa y
Comunidad. Latino Home and Neighborhood Design book.

57

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby recognize the many contributions Hipolito (Paul) Roldan has made to the
County of Cook and congratulates him on the extraordinary positive impact he has made on countless
residents and their families; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to Hipolito (Paul)
Roldan in commemoration of his dedicated service to his community.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-303
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS,
JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team finished the regular season with a record of
38 wins and 4 losses, won the Regional Championship for the 3rd consecutive time, won the Sectional
Championship for the 2nd consecutive time and won the State Championship and had previously won the
State Championship in 2002 and is the only private school in IHSA boys volleyball history to win the
state championship; and
WHEREAS, in the Sectional Semifinals against Lincoln Way Central, the Marist High School Boys
Volleyball team lost the first game and trailed in game two 21-14 before making a remarkable comeback

58

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
to win game two and then game three; and in the Sectional Finals, they defeated Providence for the third
time that season; and
WHEREAS, in the State Semifinals, the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team met Maine South
who had handily beat Marist earlier in the season, were ranked 3rd in the country and had a record of 40-0
at the time, however in a classic match, Marist defeated Maine South by the scores of 26-24, 22-25 and
25-22; and
WHEREAS, in the State Finals, the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team defeated Wheaton
Warrenville South who was the 3-time defending State Champion, had won 6 titles and had never lost a
State Championship match; and
WHEREAS, the Head Coach of the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team is Bob St. Leger, who,
with his assistants Jodi Frigo, Rob Prohaska and John Mooi coached the team to a State Championship;
and
WHEREAS, the members of the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team were captains Garrett
Dempsey and Eddie Yerkes; Seniors Mike Reid, Tommy Clark, Casey Gray, Matt Amendola, Pat Meyer,
Dave Nelson and Eric Berglind, and Juniors Joe Germino, Kevin Murphy, Kevin Morrison, Jim Mead,
Dan Garvey, Zach Heppner and Sean Connelly.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners joins the
staff, parents and community in congratulating the Marist High School Boys Volleyball team on winning
the State Championship and wish them continued success in the future; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to the St. Marist
High School Boys Volleyball team as a symbol of our respect and esteem.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-304
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER

59

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS,
JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners are proud to recognize
excellence in school sports; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners recognizes the importance of team sports in
developing the qualities of teamwork, respect, hard work and dedication in young adults; and
WHEREAS, the Sandburg High School Softball team displayed those qualities and worked together with
manager Martin Dorado and coaches Jim Fabianski and Anna Olson, to achieve a great season and
progress to become the 2010 IHSA Class 4a Softball State Champions; and
WHEREAS, this marks the first time in 10 trips and 17 years that the Sandburg Eagles brought home the
first place trophy; and
WHEREAS, the Sandburg Eagles ended their season with a record of 40 wins and 2 losses; and
WHEREAS, teammates Amanda Ballard, Dee Barbaro, Morgan Biel, Jori Boren, Lexi Bryant, Alyssa
Conoboy, Briana Fanning, Brit Gardner, A.J. Grigsby, Emma Jarrell, Karissa Kouchis, Lora Olson, Jess
Perkins, Nicole Richards, Kelly Sheridan and Lizzie Wojtowicz are to be congratulated on leading the
Sandburg Eagles girls softball team to a great season and impressive championship we are all proud of.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners join their family, friends and community in congratulating the coaching staff and team
members of the Sandburg Eagles girls softball team on their great achievements and their sense of
teamwork, respect, hard work and dedication; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution be spread across the official text of the
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that suitable copies hereof be presented to the coaching staff and
team members.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________

60

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-305
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, God in His infinite wisdom has called a man who was dedicated to serving his community
and who enjoyed a long career in public service, Ed Presberry, Sr., from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Presberry served in various positions with Cook County government over a span of 37
years, distinguishing himself by his dedication and diligence; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Presberry served with dedication as Vice President, General Secretary and Treasurer of
the Board of the Community and Economic Development Association of Cook County (CEDA), and in
2004 was awarded the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Award for outstanding volunteering in the state of
Illinois; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Presberry gave of his expertise, time and energy to a number of community action
organizations, including as Treasurer of the Community Nutrition Network and Senior Services, as a
Member of the Board of Directors of the organization, Behavior Research and Action in the Social
Sciences (BRASS Foundation), as Treasurer of the Meals On Wheels Foundation of Cook County, and as
a member of Operation PUSH, the NAACP and the Urban League; and
WHEREAS, in losing Mr. Presberry we have lost a man possessed of a generous spirit, whose impact
was felt by many, both in County government and in civic life.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Ed Presberry, Sr.’s memory shall be cherished in all of
the hearts of the people he touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the over five million residents of Cook County, do hereby offer my deepest
condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and loved ones of Ed Presberry, Sr. and
join them in sorrow at this time of loss, and may a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered herewith.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk

61

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
10-R-306
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, on May 21, 1919, the United States House of Representatives passed the 19th Amendment
to the United States Constitution by a vote of 304 to 89; the Senate next voted in favor of the amendment
on June 4, by a vote of 56 to 25; and
WHEREAS, the 19th Amendment reads: "The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex"; and
WHEREAS, on June 4, 1919, the United States Congress sent the amendment to the states for
ratification; and
WHEREAS, on August 18, 1920, the state of Tennessee became the 36th state legislature to ratify this
amendment, thereby making the amendment law, and twelve states subsequently ratified the amendment;
and
WHEREAS, while the international suffrage movement's modern origins are attributed to 18th century
France, the movement in America saw its first major organizing at the Seneca Falls Convention on
Women’s Rights, held in 1848 in upstate New York and led by Lucretia Mott, Mary Ann M'Clintock and
Elizabeth Cady Stanton; a larger National Women’s Rights Convention followed in 1850; it garnered an
audience of 1000 strong, and was organized by Lucy Stone, Pauline Kellogg, Abby Kelley Foster and six
additional women, as well as by three men, Wright Davis, William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips.

62

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, on behalf of the over five million residents of Cook County, do enjoin all the
residents of Cook County to be cognizant of the 90th anniversary of the passage of the 19th Amendment
to the United States Constitution and to celebrate the hard-fought right of the female sex to fully
participate in our country’s political process.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

* * * * *
10-R-307
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS,
JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS AND ROBERT B. STEELE, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
IN MEMORY OF HOLLY BERMAN
WHEREAS, Holly Berman passed away on July 21, 2010; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was a dedicated civic leader and volunteer whose dedication to the
community inspired countless people; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was a leader in education issues, serving as a Board Member of the North
Suburban Special Education District, overseeing the operations of a special education cooperative of 20
school districts; and

63

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Holly Berman also served on the Wilmette Public School District 39 Board of Education
for four years, including one year as Vice President and one year as President, during which she led the
search for a new district superintendent and supported the effort to bring a $1 million infusion into the
district; and
WHEREAS, after leaving the School Board, Holly Berman served as a trustee of the District 39
Educational Foundation, supporting innovative ways to enhance local educational opportunities; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was a leader in human rights and fair housing, working with the Interfaith
Housing Center of the Northern Suburbs to rebuild its fair housing testing program to investigate housing
discrimination; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was a civic leader, and was a long-time member of the Wilmette League of
Women Voters, serving as President of the organization since 2005; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was a spiritual leader, who participated in many aspects of the Unitarian
Church of Evanston, including the Religious Education Board and Long-Term Planning Committee; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman was married to Rick Berman, with whom she enjoyed spending countless
hours strolling through the Chicago Botanic Gardens, and had two children, Mark and Kate; and
WHEREAS, Holly Berman will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew her and the
people of Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to Holly Berman for her outstanding contributions to the
community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences to the family and friends of Holly Berman and joins them in sorrow
at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of Holly
Berman so she may be forever honored and cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *

64

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
10-R-308
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
Co-Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS,
JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS AND ROBERT B. STEELE, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
IN MEMORY OF DON HEYRMAN
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman passed away on August 8, 2010; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was a dedicated advocate for social justice whose religious and social ideals
directed a lifetime of service to others; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was born in De Pere, Wisconsin, and graduated from the University of
Wisconsin-Whitewater at age 19 before serving in the United States Navy in the South Pacific during
World War II; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was sent by the US Navy to the Harvard Business School, and left the Navy
as a Lieutenant in the US Navy Reserve; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman married Helen Polcyn in 1946, and the couple had five children, whom the
couple encouraged to use their education to improve the community; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman moved to Evanston, attracted to its racial and economic diversity, and would
live there for 50 years; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman and Helen bought a home in an integrated neighborhood and soon became
active in the community; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman served as President and Board Member of the Dewey Community
Conference and as President and Board Member of the Evanston Neighborhood Conference; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman believed in the right of all to a quality education, serving as President of the
Board of Education of Evanston Township High School District 202, as a Board Member of the Pope
John XXIII School Board of Evanston, as Chairman of the Education Research and Development
Consortium, and as a delegate to the Evanston School Board Caucuses for Districts 65 and 202; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was an active leader in his faith, working with the Peace and Justice
Committee for St. Mary’s Parish Catholic Church, where he was also a lay lector and member of the
Finance and Bereavement Committees; and

65

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, Don Heyrman served as a delegate to the National Conference on Religion and Race and
was a Board Member of the Chicago Catholic Interracial Council; as well as Chairperson of the National
Association of Laymen and the Chicago Conference of Laymen, and a founding member and first
Chairman of the Conference of the Laity and founding member and Board Member of the National
Association of Laymen and the National Executive Committee of the Christian Family Movement; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was a delegate of the III World Conference of the Lay Apostolate in Rome;
and
WHEREAS, in retirement, Don Heyrman increased his civic involvement, serving as a Board Member
and Treasurer of AgeOptions, being named as a delegate to the National Silver-Haired Congress in
Washington, D.C.; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman served on the Board of Directors of the Evanston United Way, the Evanston
Liquor Control Review Board, and was a member of the Budget Review Committee for the Community
Fund of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman was preceded in death by his parents, Alexander and Dorthea, and his sisters,
Catherine Manion and Lucille Bayer; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman is survived by his beloved wife, Helen; his children, Mary Wechsler (David
Selinger), Mark Heyrman (Linda Levine), Anne Szymczak (Paul), Paul Heyrman (Anita Fairbairn), and
John Heyrman (Laura); his grandchildren, Mathew Heyrman, Risa Wechsler, Kirch Sellinger, Michael
Sellinger, Emilyi Szymczak, Christopher Szymczak, Elizbeth Heyrman and Alex Heyrman; his greatgrandson, Schafer Heyrman; and countless friends and acquaintances whose lives were touched by Don
Heyrman’s unending selflessness, dignity and unwavering advocacy for social justice, equality in
education and civil rights; and
WHEREAS, Don Heyrman will be deeply missed and forever treasured by all who knew him and the
people of Cook County owe a debt of gratitude to Don Heyrman for his outstanding contributions to the
community.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby offer its deepest condolences to the family and friends of Don Heyrman and joins them in sorrow
at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be tendered to the family of Don
Heyrman so he may be forever honored and cherished.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________

66

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2-108(g)(1) order
of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS AND BRIDGES
September 1, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Moreno, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool,
Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and
Suffredin (16)

Absent:

President Stroger, Commissioner Collins (1)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Roads and Bridges, having had under consideration the matters hereinafter
mentioned, respectfully reports and recommends as follows:
SECTION 1
Your Committee has considered the following communication from Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E.,
Superintendent of Highways, recommending for approval change in plans and extra work in the
construction of certain highway improvements.
307916

COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, by Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E., Superintendent of
Highways, submitting recommendation for change in plans and extra work on Section: 08B5927-02-RP. 167th Street, Central Avenue to Cicero Avenue in the City of Oak Forest
and unincorporated Cook County in County Board District #6. Adjustment of quantities
and new items. $101,317.41 (Deduction).

307917

COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, by Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E., Superintendent of
Highways, submitting recommendation for change in plans and extra work on Section: 09B1113-08-RP. Devon Avenue, Rohlwing Road to Busse Road in the Villages of
Bensenville, Elk Grove and Itasca in County Board Districts #15 and 17. Adjustment of
quantities. $99,161.00 (Addition).

Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved the Approval of the change in
plans and extra work described in Communication No. 307916 and 307917. The motion carried.

67

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
SECTION 2
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the recommendation
is as follows:
307918

COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT, by Rupert F. Graham, Jr., P.E., Superintendent of
Highways, submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending
June 30, 2010.

Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to Receive and File
Communication No. 307918. The motion carried.
Vice Chairman Gorman moved to adjourn, seconded by Commissioner Gainer. The motion carried
and the meeting was adjourned.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON ROADS AND BRIDGES
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, Chairman
ATTEST: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Report of the Committee on
Roads and Bridges be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ZONING AND BUILDING
September 1, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Silvestri and Vice Chairman Murphy Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider,
Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

President Stroger and Commissioner Collins (1)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Zoning and Building, having had under consideration the matter hereinafter
mentioned, respectfully reports and recommends as follows
SECTION 1

68

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendation is as follows:
275452

DOCKET #8830 - STANDARD BANK LAND TRUST #17441, NADIR MALLEY –
100% BENEFICIARY, Owner, 2400 West 95th Street, Evergreen Park, Illinois 60465,
Application (No. Su-0603; Z06020). Submitted by James J. Banks, Esq., 221 North
LaSalle Street, 38th floor, Chicago, Illinois 60601. Seeking a Special Use in the C-2
Restricted Office District (if granted under companion MA-06-01) for banking facility
with drive-thru in Section 29 of Orland Township. Property consists of .878 of an acre
located on the southeast corner of 167th Street and wolf Road in Orland Township, Cook
County Board District #17. Intended use: Banking facility with drive-thru.
*Referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals on 02/1/06.

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Peraica moved approval to received and filed
Communication No. 275452. The motion carried.
SECTION 2
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendations are as follows:
294919

USE OF PLASTIC PVC PIPE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Anthony J. Peraica, County
Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
USE OF PLASTIC PVC PIPE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part C General
Requirements, Article XXXVI Sanitation and Plumbing Requirements, Chapter 36.11
Drainage System, of the Cook County Building Ordinance is hereby amended as follows:
36.11. DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Sec. 36.11-1.

Materials.

e.
For Manufactured Homes/Mobile Homes as defined under 430 ILCS 115/2(a) of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes, PVC piping shall be an allowable material within parts a-d
of this section.
*Referred to the Committee on Zoning and Building on 07/1/08.
301180

GREEN PERMIT PROGRAM (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT) Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Peter N. Silvestri, County Commissioner;
Co-Sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy, Todd H. Stroger, President,
William M. Beavers, Jerry Butter, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley,
Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Anthony J. Peraica,
Timothy O. Schneider, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin, County

69

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
GREEN PERMIT PROGRAM
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part E, of the
Cook County Building and Environmental Ordinance is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 17-B. Waiver of Fees – Permits for Green Construction.
If the project identified in a building permit application has been certified by the
Department of Building and Zoning for the Green Permit Program and the permit being
sought is for new construction or for alterations, additions, renovations or repairs to an
existing building, the Building Commissioner shall waive for such project the permit fee(s)
required under this chapter and any applicable associated fee, up to a maximum of
$15,000, as follows: For permit and associated fees over $5,000, one-half (1/2) of the fee
shall be waived up to the maximum waiver of $15,000. If multiple permits under this
chapter are issued for such project, the maximum waiver of $15,000 authorized by this
subsection shall apply to the aggregate total of all permit fees and associated fees assessed
for such project, and not to each individual permit or associated fee.
If the project identified in a building permit application includes the construction
or initial installation of a permanently applied vegetated roof system, the permit fee for the
project shall be reduced in the amount of $.50 per square foot of vegetated area. This
permit fee reduction shall not be used in conjunction with the permit fee waiver provided
for in this section.

For purposes of this section, the term “associated fee” means any fee required for:
(1) appearances before the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Committee on Zoning and
Building; (2) plan review; (3) driveway permits; (4) permit fees for the installation or
alteration of a sprinkler system; (5) permit fees for the installation or alteration of an inside
standpipe system; and (6) all applicable flat fees.
*Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on 06/16/09.
301181

GREEN PERMIT PROGRAM (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT) Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Peter N. Silvestri, County Commissioner;
Co-Sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy, Todd H. Stroger, President,
William M. Beavers, Jerry Butter, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley,
Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Anthony J. Peraica,
Timothy O. Schneider, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin, County
Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
GREEN PERMIT PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the Cook County Building and Environmental Ordinance was adopted to
promote and safeguard public health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare
of the people; and

70

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, the Ordinance prescribes rules and regulations governing the erection,
construction and alteration of all buildings and structures in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, persons wishing to erect, construct or alter a building or structure in Cook
County must apply for certain permits to ensure compliance and enforce standards
imposed by the Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Building and Zoning is authorized to process applications
for the erection, construction and alteration of all buildings and structures in Cook County;
and
WHEREAS, the Department of Building and Zoning is also authorized to collect a fee for
processing permit applications; and
WHEREAS, Cook County encourages building design, construction and renovation in a
manner that provides healthier environments, reduces operating costs and conserves energy
and resources; and
WHEREAS, the City of Chicago has, with a team of experts in green design, developed
guidelines that qualify projects for green building certification.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Department of
Building and Zoning adopt the City of Chicago guidelines to certify green projects; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that applicants for building permits that demonstrate an
extraordinary level of green strategy implementation and are certified as green, may have
permit fees waived by the Department of Building and Zoning.
*Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on 06/16/09.
Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy moved approval to received and filed
Communication Nos. 244919, 301180 and 301181. The motion carried.
SECTION 3
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendation is as follows:
305001

DOCKET #8606 – MARILYN KING, Owner, 2211 North Scott Street, Melrose Park,
Illinois 60164, Application (No. SU-09-19; Z09108). Submitted by Cathleen Italia,
Attorney, 1807 North Broadway Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois 60160. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District to continue
use of two unit/two family residence in Section 33 of Leyden Township. Property consists
of approximately 0.36 of an acre located on the east side of Scott Street, approximately 84
feet north of Palmer Avenue in Leyden Township, Cook County Board District #16.
Intended use: For a two family unit residence.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.
Conditions:

None

71

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Objectors:

Yes

Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Commissioner Gorman moved not to concur with the
recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation and to Deny Communication
No. 305001. The motion carried.
Commissioner Butler voted No on Communication No. 305001.
SECTION 4
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendation is as follows:
306457

DOCKET #8632 - BARBARA NOVAK, Owner, 712 Elm Street, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
60137-3930, Application (No. SU-10-03; Z10025). Submitted by Same. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for continued
use of two dwelling units in an existing single family residence as previously amortized
under SU-80-12 in Section 9 of Stickney Township. Property consists of approximately
0.14 of an acre located on the east side of South Luna Avenue, approximately 147 feet
north of West 51st Street in Stickney Township, Cook County Board District #11.
Intended use: For 1st and 2nd floors are currently apartments with appliances and utilities.
No new improvements proposed.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.
Conditions:
Objectors:

None
None

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy moved, the approval of
Communication No. 306457 as amended. The motion carried.
SECTION 5
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendations are as follows:
308416

308417

DOCKET #8637 – SARNO PROPERTIES, Owner, Application (No. V-10-26): Variation
to reduce right yard setback from 10 feet to 1.6 feet (existing); and reduce distance
between principal and accessory from 10 feet to 8 inches (existing) for after the fact shed
in the R-5 Single Family Residence District. The subject property consists of
approximately 0.34 of an acre, located on the east side of 104th Avenue, approximately 385
feet south of 125th Street in Palos Township, County Board District #17.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

DOCKET #8638 – ELGIN BIBLE CHURCH, Owner, Application (V-10-27): Variation
to increase size of sign area from 32 square feet to 100 square feet for a double faced
illuminated monument sign in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The subject

72

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
property consists of approximately 6.8 acres, located on the northwest corner of Irving
Park Boulevard (Rte 19) and Rohrson Road in Hanover Township, County Board District
#15. Recommendation: That the application be granted.

308419

308420

308421

308422

Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

DOCKET #8655 – D. & M. MORRIS, Owners, Application (V-10-39): Variation to
reduce lot area from 20,000 square feet to 16,000 square feet (existing); increase the floor
area ratio from .25 to .30 for a new single family residence and detached garage in the R-4
Single Family Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.37 of
an acre, located on the west side of Peck Avenue, approximately 112 feet south of 60th
Street in Lyons Township, County Board District #16. Recommendation: That the
application be granted.
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

DOCKET #8659 – E. & C. MOGENTALE, Owners, Application (V-10-40): Variation to
increase height of entry piers in front yard from 3 feet to 6 feet for four (4) entry piers in
the R-3 Single Family Residence District. The subject property consists of approximately
0.93 of an acre, located on the north side of Indian Hill Road, approximately 1,130 feet
west of Ridge Road in New Trier Township, County Board District #14.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

DOCKET #8660 – P. CABRAL, Owner, Application (V-10-41): Variation to reduce lot
width from 150 feet to 100 feet (existing); reduce lot area from 40,000 square feet to
21,800 square feet (existing); reduce front yard setback 40 feet to 25 feet (existing); and
reduce left side yard setback from 15 feet to 10 feet (existing) for renovations to existing
single family residence on well and septic system in the R-4 Single Family Residence
District. The subject property consists of approximately 0.50 of an acre, located on the
north side of Archer Avenue, approximately 436 feet southwesterly of Ashford Drive in
Lemont Township, County Board District #17. Recommendation: That the application
be granted.
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

DOCKET #8662 – E. & T. SMITH, Owners, Application (V-10-43): Variation to increase
height of fence from 6 feet to 7 feet in the R-4 Single Family Residence District. The
subject property consists of approximately 0.62 of an acre, located on the southwest corner
of Locust Lane and Jann Court in Lyons Township, County Board District #16.
Recommendation: That the application be granted.

73

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Conditions:

None

Objectors:

None

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy moved, the approval of
Communication Nos. 308416, 308417, 308419, 308420, 308421 and 308422. The motion carried.
SECTION 6
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon the adoption of this report the
recommendations are as follows:
308423

VICTOR AND ANA MARTINEZ, Owners, 4747 South Linder Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
60638, Application (No. SU-10-13; Z10056). Submitted by Same. Seeking a SPECIAL
USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for two (2) dwelling
units (existing) in a single family residence district in Section 9 of Stickney Township.
Property consists of approximately 0.12 of an acre located on the east side of Linder
Avenue approximately 225 feet north of 48th Street. Cook County Board District #11.
Intended use: For a two (2) apartment dwelling in a Single Family Residence District.

308424

DOMINGO AND MARIA RODRIGUEZ, Owners, 5005 South Lorel Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois 60638, Application (No. SU-10-14; Z10057). Submitted by Same. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for continued
use of two (2) dwelling units (existing) in a single family residence district in Section 9 of
Stickney Township. Property consists of approximately 0.17 of an acre located on the east
side of Lorel Avenue approximately 69.10 feet south of 50th Street in Stickney Township.
Cook County Board District #11. Intended use: For continued use as two-flat Single
Family Residence

308425

ANDREW LIGAS, Owner, 6417 West 63rd Street, Chicago, Illinois 60638, Application
(No. SU-10-15; Z10058). Submitted by Krystna Zubek, 4818 South Latrobe Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois 60638. Seeking a SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single
Family Residence District for two (2) dwelling (as previously amortized by SU-79-07) in
Section 9 of Stickney Township. Property consists of approximately 0.14 of an acre
located on the west side of South Latrobe Avenue approximately 210 feet west of 48th
Street in Stickney Township. Cook County Board District #11. Intended use: Two (2)
unit Single Family Residence District.

308426

MARY JANE MEKALUNAS & JAMES MEKALUNAS, Owners, 5232 West 51st Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60638, Application (No. SU-10-16; Z10062). Submitted by Same.
Seeking a SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for
two dwelling units (existing) in a single family residence district in Section 9 of Stickney
Township. Property consists of approximately 0.08 of an acre located on the north side of
51st Street approximately 60 feet west of Latrobe Avenue in Stickney Township. Cook
County Board District #11. Intended use: For continued use of existing two (2) unit
residential building.

308427

CHRISTOPHER KOCZWARA, Law Offices of Christopher Koczwara, Owner, 5838
South Archer Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60638, Application (No. SU-10-17; Z10067).
Submitted by Rafael Hernandez, 5238 West 51st Street, Chicago, Illinois. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R-5 Single Family Residence District for continued

74

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
use of three (3) dwelling units (existing) in a single family in Section 9 of Stickney
Township. Property consists of approximately 0.08 of an acre located on the north side of
57tth Street approximately 120 feet west Latrobe Avenue in Stickney Township. Cook
County Board District #11. Intended use: For continued use of the three (3) dwelling unit
building and detached garage.
Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, referred the New Application
Communication Nos. 308423, 308424, 308425, 308426 and 308427 to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
The motion carried.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, moved to adjourn, the motion
carried and the meeting was adjourned.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON ZONING AND BUILDING
PETER N. SILVESTRI, Chairman
ATTEST: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Report of the Committee on
Zoning and Building be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
September 1, 2010
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers,
Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (17)

Absent:

None (0)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Prior to discussion of the items presented herein, Chairman Daley stated that on Friday, August 27, 2010
he was informed by the Chief Financial Officer, Jaye Morgan Williams that payments to certain vendors
were issued in advance of proper approval by the Finance Committee. Chairman Daley advised Ms.
Williams to inform the Independent Inspector General of this issue.
Chairman Daley entered into the record a letter from the Chief Financial Officer he received today,
September 1, 2010. Leave was granted to have Ms. Williams give an overview of what has occurred and
what steps the County is taking now and in the future to prevent this from occurring.

75

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Ms. Williams stated that on Friday, August 27, 2010 she was notified by the County Comptroller,
Constance Kravitz that certain bills appearing on the September 1, 2010 Finance Agenda had been paid in
advance of the meeting. She reached out to the appropriate parties including Chairman Daley, President
Stroger, Joseph Sova, Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources, and Patrick M. Blanchard, Independent
Inspector General.
On Monday, August 30, 2010, Ms. Williams learned through a series of interviews that twenty-five
checks that appear on the Finance Agenda had been released for payment prior to board approval, totaling
approximately $6.7 million.
Chairman Daley informed the Commissioners that the Independent Inspector General stated that it is an
ongoing investigation and the Board will be apprised of the outcome of the investigation.

SECTION 1
Your Committee has considered the following court orders submitted by attorneys for payment of fees
earned by said attorneys for defending indigent defendants.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by
the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks to said attorneys in the amounts
recommended.
APPELLATE CASES
307957

STEVEN JAFFE, Attorney, presented by the Clerk of the Appellate Court, Steven M.
Ravid, submitting an Order of Court to pay the sum of $517.50 attorney fees regarding
People of the State of Illinois v. Muriel H-E. and Billy N. Trial Court No. 08-JA-690.
Appellate Court No. 01-10-1689.

308039

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, presented by the Clerk of
the Appellate Court, Steven M. Ravid, submitting an Order of Court to pay the sum of
$4,285.99 attorney fees regarding People of the State of Illinois v. Antoinette K. Trial
Court No. 07-JA-0054. Appellate Court No. 1-10-0153.

308253

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, presented by the Clerk of the Appellate Court, Steven M.
Ravid, submitting an Order of Court to pay the sum of $310.44 attorney fees regarding
People of the State of Illinois v. Clyde W. Trial Court No. 07-JA-129. Appellate Court
No. 1-10-0152.

APPELLATE CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
APPELLATE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$71,247.89
$5,113.93

NON-CAPITAL CASES
307933

JOHN D. REA, Lemont, Illinois, presented by Dean C. Morask, Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $1,895.35 investigator fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Darryl Sutton. Indictment No. 98-CR-15711 (Non-Capital Case).

76

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

307934

PRADEEP ROY-SINGH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,106.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jessie Reed. Indictment
No. 06-CR-80018-01 (Non-Capital Case).

307935

PRADEEP ROY-SINGH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$3,336.30 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Chadd Morris.
Indictment No. 08-CR-80017-01 (Non-Capital Case).

307937

RAVITZ & PALLES, P.C., Chicago, Illinois, presented by Eric S. Palles and Gary J.
Ravitz, Attorneys, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $11,962.50 attorney fees
for the defense of an indigent defendant, Darryl Sutton. Indictment No. 98-CR-15711
(Non-Capital Case).

307945

JAMES T. SALTOUROS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$12,475.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Keith Sowell.
Indictment No. 07-CR-25703 (Non-Capital Case).

307958

JONATHAN E. LERNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,956.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Yolanda Morales.
Indictment No. 09-CR-10981-04 (Non-Capital Case).

308023

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, Chicago, Illinois, Department of Psychiatry, presented by
Andreas Liewald, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00 for an
independent examination for the defense of an indigent defendant, Wyatt Mankin.
Indictment No. 10-COMH-1412 (Non-Capital Case).

308074

BRUCE D. PAYNTER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,326.27
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alfonso Vierneza. Indictment Nos.
09-CR-19415-01 and 09-C2-20405-01 (Non-Capital Cases).

308075

CHICAGO-KENT COLLEGE OF LAW, presented by Daniel T. Coyne, Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $8,990.00 attorney fees for the defense of an
indigent defendant, Lamont Niles. Indictment No. 07-CR-23977 (Non-Capital Case).

308110

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $6,912.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kenneth Smith. Indictment No. 01CR-11391 (Non-Capital Case).

308168

KIRK WITHERSPOON, Ph.D., Moline, Illinois, presented by Stephen F. Potts, Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $3,376.35 expert witness fees (psychological
examination) for the defense of an indigent defendant, John New, Jr. Indictment No. 05CR-80002 (Non-Capital Case).

308255

GIL SAPIR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,352.13 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Niyanna Smith. Indictment No. 01-CR211503 (Non-Capital Case).

308256

TOD M. URBAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $5,031.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Treondous Robinson. Indictment
No. 03-CR-19871 (Non-Capital Case).

77

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308347

MARK D. DOHM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $5,700.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Stanley Howard. Indictment No.
84-CR-13135 (Non-Capital Case).

308381

DEBRA NIESEN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,760.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cortez Reed. Indictment No. 09CR-16084 (Non-Capital Case).

308390

GEORGE A. GRZECA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$24,050.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Clarence Anderson.
Indictment No. 07-CR-4348-02 (Non-Capital Case).

NON-CAPITAL CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
NON-CAPITAL CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$983,553.00
$93,830.15

DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASES
307932

PETER R. OLSON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of attorney fees
totaling $931.04 for the defense of an indigent defendant, Arvind Patel. Domestic
Relations Civil Contempt Case No. 03-D-011026.

308026

ROTMAN & ELOVITZ, LTD., Chicago, Illinois, presented by Michael H. Rotman,
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of attorney fees totaling $614.00 for
the defense of an indigent defendant, Grady Belmer, Jr. Domestic Relations Civil
Contempt Case No. 93-D-005457.

DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010
TO PRESENT:
DOMESTIC RELATIONS CIVIL CONTEMPT CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$31,555.85
$1,545.04

JUVENILE CASES
307926

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $762.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jessica Farley-Brunner, Mother, re:
the Farley-Brunner children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00806 and 10-JA-00180
(Juvenile Cases).

307927

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $906.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Justyna Tetlak, Mother, re: G.
Tetlak, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-539 (Juvenile Case).

307928

BRIAN M. DANLOE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,700.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Vaval
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1012, 09-JA-1013 and 09-JA-1014 (Juvenile
Cases).

78

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
307929

BRIAN M. DANLOE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,412.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charles Carpenter, Father, re: the
Carpenter child, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-392 (Juvenile Case).

307930

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antwon Coleman, Father, re: A.
Coleman, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-1021 (Juvenile Case).

307931

VICTORIA ALMEIDA, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,625.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, M. Adams
and D. Lang, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-00357 and 09-JA-00009 (Juvenile Cases).

307936

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,000.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Traci Smith, Mother, re: L. Smith, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00015 (Juvenile Case).

307938

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $325.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Barragan, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00334 (Juvenile Case).

307939

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $318.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Shaheed
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-00089 and 07-JA-00090 (Juvenile Cases).

307940

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $518.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the
Amure children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-00700 and 05-JA-00701 (Juvenile Cases).

307941

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$212.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Omri Tutwiler, Father, re:
the Tutwiler children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-01084, 05-JA-01085 and 05-JA01086 (Juvenile Cases).

307942

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$437.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christopher Hoard, Father,
re: N. Hoard, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-304 (Juvenile Case).

307943

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $470.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Thomas, a
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1414 (Juvenile Case).

307944

DONNA L. RYDER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $790.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ciarra Mayfield, Mother, re: C.
Martin and C. Mayfield, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-709 and 09-JA-114 (Juvenile
Cases).

307946

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $562.50 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, L. Wilson, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00408
(Juvenile Case).

79

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
307947

ELLEN SIDNEY WEISZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $331.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Debra Marie Domangue, Mother, re:
the Basil and Domangue children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-453, 06-JA-746 and 06JA-747 (Juvenile Cases).

307948

WILLIAM J. MCLAUGHLIN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $437.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, S. Bell
and J. Bey, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-00775 and 05-JA-00984 (Juvenile Cases).

307949

WILLIAM J. MCLAUGHLIN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $225.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A.
Boswell, a minor. Indictment No. 94-JA-05495 (Juvenile Case).

307950

WILLIAM J. MCLAUGHLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$600.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. Little, a minor.
Indictment No. 09-JD-60810 (Juvenile Case).

307951

WILLIAM J. MCLAUGHLIN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $362.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A.
Washington, a minor. Indictment Nos. 08-JD-60814 and 09-JD-61013 (Juvenile Cases).

307952

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,150.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christopher Oliva, Father, re: J.
Oliva, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00075 (Juvenile Case).

307953

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $825.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lucero Sanchez, Mother, re: A.
Flores, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-01003 (Juvenile Case).

307954

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $525.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Cherry, a
minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-01356 (Juvenile Case).

307959

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $1,027.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Concepcion Velez, Mother, re: the Barragon children, minors. Indictment Nos.
06-JA-334, 06-JA-335, 06-JA-336, 06-JA-337, 06-JA-338 and 06-JA-339 (Juvenile
Cases).

307960

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $977.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Tyrone Faniel, Jr., Father, re: J. Faniel, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-377
(Juvenile Case).

307962

MATTHEW A. INGRAM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $568.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, R. Brown, a minor. Indictment No.
10-JD-60015 (Juvenile Case).

307963

VICTORIA ALMEIDA, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $500.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, K. ShortBey, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1103 (Juvenile Case).

80

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

307964

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $1,562.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Johnnie Gipson, Father, re: J. Gipson, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-39
(Juvenile Case).

307965

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,268.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Reginald Harris, Father, re: the
Richmond children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1110, 09-JA-1111, 09-JA-1112 and
09-JA-1113 (Juvenile Cases).

307966

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $527.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jimmy Chancellor, Father, re: the
Chancellor and Long children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-0311, 07-JA-0312 and 08JA-987 (Juvenile Cases).

307967

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,647.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, A. Sparkman
and A. Starks, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-0600 and 10-JA-0370 (Juvenile Cases).

307968

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $300.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charlese Mitchell, Mother, re: M.
Nelson, a minor. Indictment No. 02-JA-0396 (Juvenile Case).

307969

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,548.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Mack Goodman, Father, re: the
Goodman children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-715, 09-JA-717, 09-JA-718 and 10JA-360 (Juvenile Cases).

307970

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,088.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gary Nelson, Father, re: the Nelson
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-542, 09-JA-543 and 10-JA-359 (Juvenile Cases).

307971

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $906.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kawana Sandlin, Mother, re: C.
Brown and D. Massey, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-639 and 07-JA-640 (Juvenile
Cases).

307972

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $987.50 attorney
fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Darrell Jones and Louis C. Wesley, Fathers, re:
D. Jones and L. Wesley, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-00016 and 07-JA-00835
(Juvenile Cases).

307973

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,098.09
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tamika Hawkins, Mother, re: W.
Austin and A. Hawkins, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-00429 and 06-JA-00430 (Juvenile
Cases).

307974

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $756.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Armando Pineda, Father, re: A.
Gonzalez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00004 (Juvenile Case).

81

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

307975

PETER N. RYAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $787.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antwoine Chester, Father, re: the
Chester children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-857 and 04-JA-858 (Juvenile Cases).

307976

PETER N. RYAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $962.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, K. Smith, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-545 (Juvenile Case).

307977

PETER N. RYAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,150.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Magdalena Cornejo, Mother, re: the
Cornejo and Guzman children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-889, 07-JA-890, 07-JA891 and 07-JA-892 (Juvenile Cases).

307978

PETER N. RYAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,012.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Hector Rosas, Father, re: the Rosas
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-60, 07-JA-61, 07-JA-62 and 07-JA-63 (Juvenile
Cases).

307979

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $743.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Roger Hinton, Father, re: D.
Hinton, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-375 (Juvenile Case).

307980

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $850.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Gage, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-90 (Juvenile Case).

307982

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $812.20
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joanna Espronceda, Mother, re: D.
Espronceda, a minor. Indictment No. 00-JA-521 (Juvenile Case).

307983

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,202.64
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Owen Washington, Father, re: A.
Cook, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-523 (Juvenile Case).

307984

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $337.23
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Katrina Parker, Mother, re: the
Parker children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-981, 03-JA-982, 03-JA-983, 03-JA-984
and 03-JA-985 (Juvenile Cases).

307985

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $150.44 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. White, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-129 (Juvenile Case).

307986

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order
of Court for payment of $2,966.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the
Anderson, Durr, Harris and Sardin children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-764, 03-JA765, 03-JA-766, 05-JA-1024, 08-JA-759 and 08-JA-760 (Juvenile Cases).

307987

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$487.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, LaChondra Dotson,

82

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Mother, re: D. Rucker and E. Smith, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-00345 and 08-JA00719 (Juvenile Cases).
307988

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,344.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Norman Binion, Father,
re: N. Binion, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00374 (Juvenile Case).

307989

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$545.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Smith, Father, re:
the Smith children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00229 and 08-JA-00747 (Juvenile
Cases).

307990

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$462.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Aaron Green, Father, re: N.
Moffett, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-552 (Juvenile Case).

307991

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$507.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Brownell Brown, Father,
re: J. Brown, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-00266 (Juvenile Case).

307992

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$928.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nakiah Whitehead, Mother,
re: H. Whitehead-Reynolds, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00171 (Juvenile Case).

307993

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$461.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Greer, Father, re:
B. Ayers, a minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-00051 (Juvenile Case).

307994

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,765.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tommie Williams,
Father, re: T. Williams, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00984 (Juvenile Case).

307995

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,969.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Marlynda Chernesky,
Mother, re: I. Chernesky, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00373 (Juvenile Case).

307996

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$941.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Young, Father, re:
the Young children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-352 and 07-JA-953 (Juvenile Cases).

307997

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,362.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carl Baldwin, Father, re: A.
Reneau, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00177 (Juvenile Case).

307998

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $625.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ronald Collins, Father, re: S.
Collins, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-958 (Juvenile Case).

307999

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,275.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Brenda Cockerham, Mother, re: V.
Cockerham, a minor. Indictment Nos. 06-JD-04300 and 10-JD-02397 (Juvenile Cases).

83

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308000

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $737.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Keith Sims, Father, re: K. Sims, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00709 (Juvenile Case).

308001

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $618.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Brown, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-436 (Juvenile Case).

308002

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $900.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, R. Rutherford, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00516 (Juvenile Case).

308003

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $531.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, McDaniel Flowers, Father, re: W.
Flowers, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-252 (Juvenile Case).

308004

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $631.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Robert Anderson, Father, re: A.
Johnson, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1332 (Juvenile Case).

308005

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$995.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Bernita Banks, Mother, re:
K. Banks, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1681 (Juvenile Case).

308006

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order
of Court for payment of $1,115.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant,
D. Shumate, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00174 (Juvenile Case).

308007

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$550.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Dery McDuffy, Father, re:
J. Hall, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-858 (Juvenile Case).

308008

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,118.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Dantzler
and Tankson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 94-JA-6964, 94-JA-6965 and 94-JA-6966
(Juvenile Cases).

308009

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $525.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Emma Cruzado, Mother, re: the
Garcia children, minors. Indictment Nos. 99-JA-991 and 99-JA-1254 (Juvenile Cases).

308010

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $537.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, E. Wilson, a
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-445 (Juvenile Case).

308011

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$827.62 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nyeasha Williamson,
Mother, re: the Williamson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-377 and 06-JA-378
(Juvenile Cases).

84

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308012

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $825.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S. Nava, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-242 (Juvenile Case).

308013

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $893.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Leon Salamon, Father, re: M.
Wraith, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-675 (Juvenile Case).

308014

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $875.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christopher Russo, Father, re: J.
Russo, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-076 (Juvenile Case).

308015

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $425.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jerel Brooks, Father, re: J. Brooks,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00938 (Juvenile Case).

308016

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $375.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Andre Coleman, Father, re: the
Coleman children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-185 and 08-JA-186 (Juvenile Cases).

308017

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $442.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carlos Flores, Father, re: the Flores
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1092 and 09-JA-1093 (Juvenile Cases).

308018

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,550.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charles Hollins, Father, re: M.
Hollins, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-716 (Juvenile Case).

308019

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order
of Court for payment of $1,212.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the
Pinkston and Revis children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00954, 09-JA-00955, 09-JA00956, 09-JA-00957, 09-JA-00958 and 09-JA-00959 (Juvenile Cases).

308020

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $912.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Terry Caldwell, Sr., Father, re: T. Caldwell, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA1110 (Juvenile Case).

308021

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $637.50 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, H. Cobb, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-939 (Juvenile
Case).

308024

ROBERT A. HORWITZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $430.98
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Almondo Smith, Father, re: the
Smith children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-369, 08-JA-370 and 08-JA-371 (Juvenile
Cases).

308025

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $675.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Robert Vandell, Sr., Father, re: the Vandell children, minors. Indictment Nos.

85

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
03-JA-602 and 03-JA-603 (Juvenile Cases).
308027

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,575.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Jevon Ollins and Darnell
Sears, Fathers, re: the Robertson and Sears children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-429,
09-JA-430 and 09-JA-431 (Juvenile Cases).

308028

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $625.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Derrick Hamlin, Father, re: D.
Hamlin, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-220 (Juvenile Case).

308029

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $400.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Robbie McKinzie, Father, re: R.
McKinzie, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-219 (Juvenile Case).

308030

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$725.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sara Saez, Mother, re: A.
Saez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00368 (Juvenile Case).

308031

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$737.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James North, Father, re: A.
North, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00028 (Juvenile Case).

308032

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,637.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Freddie Tippen, Father,
re: L. Tippen, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-299 (Juvenile Case).

308033

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$550.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Baker, a minor.
Indictment No. 10-JD-01829 (Juvenile Case).

308034

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$450.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Melinda Brown, Mother,
re: the Langston children, minors. Indictment Nos. 93-JA-723 and 93-JA-724 (Juvenile
Cases).

308035

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$862.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Victor Tanksley, Father, re:
the Tanksley and Walls children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-1177, 03-JA-1178, 03JA-1179 and 03-JA-1180 (Juvenile Cases).

308036

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$500.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Crystal Shumate, Mother,
re: D. Shumate, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-174 (Juvenile Case).

308037

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,193.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Kemp, Father, re: T. Smith, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00307 (Juvenile Case).

308038

PATRICK K. SCHLEE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $225.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, R.

86

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Hackman, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00260 (Juvenile Case).
308040

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order
of Court for payment of $3,048.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the
Guzman and Rivera children, minors. Indictment Nos. 01-JA-1082, 01-JA-1083, 01-JA1084, 01-JA-1085 and 01-JA-1086 (Juvenile Cases).

308041

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,345.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Velin Stewart, Mother, re:
V. Stockdale, a minor. Indictment No. 93-JA-06330 (Juvenile Case).

308042

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$968.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nyelia Harris, Mother, re:
K. Harris, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-001264 (Juvenile Case).

308043

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$506.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sisay Bilelegne, Father, re:
the Worku children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-253 and 06-JA-254 (Juvenile Cases).

308044

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,130.49 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sophia Brown, Mother,
re: the Brown, Flax and Peals children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-1203, 05-JA-1204
and 05-JA-1205 (Juvenile Cases).

308045

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$981.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Vanessa Wright, Mother,
re: the Wright children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1120 and 09-JA-1121 (Juvenile
Cases).

308046

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,164.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, George Brown, Father, re:
R. Brown, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0029 (Juvenile Case).

308047

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $275.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Clayton,
Hall and Keeler children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0999, 09-JA-1000, 09-JA-1001
and 09-JA-1002 (Juvenile Cases).

308048

PETER N. RYAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,350.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Harris, a minor. Indictment Nos.
10-JD-428 and 10-JD-435 (Juvenile Cases).

308049

ANDREA M. TIRVA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $450.36
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ronald Strickland, Sr., Father, re:
R. Strickland, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-682 (Juvenile Case).

308050

FRANCINE N. GREEN-KELNER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,983.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charday Wilkins, Mother,
re: M. Seay, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00066 (Juvenile Case).

308051

ROBERT SHARP, JR., Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $600.00

87

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jozette Eddings, Guardian, re: A.
Eddings, a minor. Indictment No. 97-JA-3072 (Juvenile Case).
308052

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $287.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sharon Ellis, Mother, re: the Ellis
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-1027 and 08-JA-1028 (Juvenile Cases).

308053

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $387.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jeriot Lomax, Father, re: the Lomax
child, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-336 (Juvenile Case).

308054

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,006.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cherita Jackson, Mother, re: P.
Agee and B. Jackson, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-605 and 07-JA-699 (Juvenile
Cases).

308055

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $833.58
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Danisha Stokes, Mother, re: D.
Stokes, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-01453 (Juvenile Case).

308056

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $787.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Thompson
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1429 and 04-JA-1430 (Juvenile Cases).

308057

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $262.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sherman Summerall, Father, re: the
Summerall child, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-144 (Juvenile Case).

308058

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $737.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jose Sanchez, Father, re: the
Sanchez children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-581, 08-JA-583 and 08-JA-584
(Juvenile Cases).

308059

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $900.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ruby McLemore, Mother, re: the
McLemore child, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00061 (Juvenile Case).

308060

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $375.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gregory Collins, Father, re: the
Collins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-418, 07-JA-419 and 07-JA-420 (Juvenile
Cases).

308061

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $462.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Reynolds, a
minor. Indictment No. 96-JA-3408 (Juvenile Case).

308062

MARV RAIDBARD, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $262.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lena Stokes, Mother, re: S. Stokes,
a minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-514 (Juvenile Case).

308063

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $437.50 attorney

88

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Felicia Turner, Mother, re: M. Turner, a
minor. Indictment No. 97-JA-01328 (Juvenile Case).
308064

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $290.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Troy Smith, Mother, re: the Smith
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 94-JA-05067 and 94-JA-05068 (Juvenile Cases).

308065

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $245.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Caesari Brown, Father, re: I.
Brown, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-0202 (Juvenile Case).

308066

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $335.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Louie Posey, Father, re: T. Talbert,
a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0168 (Juvenile Case).

308067

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $825.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Reginald Jones, Father, re: C.
Jones, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-0601 (Juvenile Case).

308068

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $380.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Casha Jackson, Mother, re: R.
Jackson, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00734 (Juvenile Case).

308069

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $650.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Venson Jones, Sr., Father, re: V.
Jones, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-0602 (Juvenile Case).

308070

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $755.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D. Barfield, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-01010 (Juvenile Case).

308071

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $425.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Crystal Coleman, Mother, re: D.
Coleman, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-01041 (Juvenile Case).

308072

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $660.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Regina Williams, Mother, re: O.
Williams-Lynch, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-01005 (Juvenile Case).

308077

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,043.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, J. Adams
and J. Jones, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-163 and 08-JA-1126 (Juvenile Cases).

308078

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $631.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, David Turner, Father, re: D. Turner,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-782 (Juvenile Case).

308079

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $790.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ian McKoy, Father, re: I. McKoy, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-320 (Juvenile Case).

89

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308080

VICTORIA ALMEIDA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,006.25
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Gerald and Pamela Peterson, Adoptive
Parents, re: A. Partington-Patterson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00401 (Juvenile
Case).

308081

VICTORIA ALMEIDA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,487.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Heintz, Father, re: C.
Heintz, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00200 (Juvenile Case).

308082

BRIAN J. O’HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $237.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Arndt, Father, re: the Arndt
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-848, 06-JA-850 and 06-JA-851 (Juvenile Cases).

308083

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $500.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ivette Betancourt, Mother, re: the
Wood children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00392 and 08-JA-00393 (Juvenile Cases).

308084

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,075.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tessica Tawanna Smith, Mother, re:
D. Watkins, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01034 (Juvenile Case).

308085

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $725.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, N. Hudson, a minor. Indictment
Nos. 06-JD-4409 and 06-JD-6117 (Juvenile Cases).

308086

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,042.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Stephen Reed, Father, re: the Reed
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-765 and 09-JA-766 (Juvenile Cases).

308087

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $972.50 attorney fees for the
defense of an indigent defendant, C. Woods, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-097 (Juvenile
Case).

308088

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $695.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Rebecca Kendrick, Adoptive Mother, re: T. Simmons, a minor. Indictment No.
07-JA-1012 (Juvenile Case).

308089

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $957.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Bertha Cameron, Mother, re: the Cameron children, minors. Indictment Nos.
09-JA-421, 09-JA-422 and 09-JA-423 (Juvenile Cases).

308090

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $865.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Jewel Doramus, Mother, re: A. Felton, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-647
(Juvenile Case).

308091

LAW OFFICE OF KENT DEAN, LTD., presented by Kent Dean, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $550.00 attorney fees for the

90

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
defense of an indigent defendant, J. Taylor, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-88 (Juvenile
Case).
308092

BRIAN J. O’HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,181.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Chester Grice, Father, re: N. Grice,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01064 (Juvenile Case).

308093

BRIAN J. O’HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $587.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, DeAndre Harris, Father, re: J.
McSwain, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00179 (Juvenile Case).

308094

BRIAN J. O’HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,031.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Nicolas Graham, Father, re: N.
Graham, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00202 (Juvenile Case).

308095

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,310.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, D. Anderson
and D. Williams, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-01280 and 08-JA-0083 (Juvenile Case).

308096

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $730.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Thomas, Father, re: E.
Thomas, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0103 (Juvenile Case).

308097

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $590.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. B. Hollom, Father, re: J.
Chatman, a minor. Indictment No. 02-JA-00444 (Juvenile Case).

308098

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,400.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jesse Chagoya, Father, re: the
Chagoya children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0866 and 09-JA-0867 (Juvenile Cases).

308099

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,485.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, D. Bridges and
H. Smith, minors. Indictment Nos. 91-J-017445 and 93-JA-01959 (Juvenile Cases).

308100

MATTHEW A. INGRAM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,037.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, C. Dyson, a minor.
Indictment No. 09-JD-04805 (Juvenile Case).

308101

RANDY CRUMPTON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $850.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Byron Donaldson, Sr., Father, re: B.
Donaldson and D. Lavender, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-693 and 09-JA-895 (Juvenile
Cases).

308102

RANDY CRUMPTON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $575.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Renard McCray, Sr., Father, re: R.
McCray, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-666 (Juvenile Case).

308103

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,181.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Karen Kmiecik, Mother, re: L.
Loveall, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-594 (Juvenile Case).

91

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308104

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $856.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Vincent Buckner, Father, re: T.
Dennis, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-707 (Juvenile Case).

308105

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,737.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Loveall, Father, re: L.
Loveall, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00594 (Juvenile Case).

308106

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $537.50 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Dewanis Rogers, Father, re: V. Rogers, a
minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-00643 (Juvenile Case).

308107

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $331.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Eyloan Martin, Guardian, re: S.
Martin, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00228 (Juvenile Case).

308108

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $775.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Peeples,
a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00324 (Juvenile Case).

308111

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$558.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Selena Crosby, Mother, re:
Z. Crosby, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0380 (Juvenile Case).

308112

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$375.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Stuart Evans, Father, re: D.
Nard, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-0599 (Juvenile Case).

308113

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,913.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Makiah Lewis, Mother,
re: the Lewis, Lockhart, Seaberry and Steward children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA989, 03-JA-990, 03-JA-991, 03-JA-992, 03-JA-993 and 10-JA-002 (Juvenile Cases).

308114

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$887.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Diana Benavides, Mother,
re: E. Benavides and K. Harris, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-1431 and 02-JA-1432
(Juvenile Cases).

308115

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$282.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Gloria Walls, Mother, re:
the Tanksley and Walls children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-1177, 03-JA-1178, 03JA-1179 and 03-JA-1180 (Juvenile Cases).

308116

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$281.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Travis Rule, Sr., Father, re:
T. Rule, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0172 (Juvenile Case).

308131

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney and Guardian
ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,070.00 attorney fees for the
defense of indigent defendants, the Bloxton children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-465

92

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
and 09-JA-466 (Juvenile Cases).
308132

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $687.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Richard Johnson, Father, re: the Williams children, minors. Indictment Nos.
09-JA-32 and 09-JA-33 (Juvenile Cases).

308133

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,337.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, A.
Thompson and A. Washington, minors. Indictment Nos. 95-JA-4816 and 99-JA-205
(Juvenile Cases).

308134

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $475.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Rose Reed, Mother, re: V. Reed, a
minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-1181 (Juvenile Case).

308135

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $255.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Henry, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00139 (Juvenile Case).

308136

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $545.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cynthia Richardson, Mother, re: the
Wadlington children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-00338 and 05-JA-00421 (Juvenile
Cases).

308137

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $280.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antoinette Conner, Aunt and
Guardian, re: M. Conner, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-01353 (Juvenile Case).

308138

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,835.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Iesha Lomax, Mother, re:
S. Payne, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-168 (Juvenile Case).

308139

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $705.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Mitchell,
a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-02273 (Juvenile Case).

308140

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $220.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, O. Vela, a minor. Indictment No.
08-JD-02056 (Juvenile Case).

308141

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $365.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, O. Vela, a minor. Indictment No.
08-JD-02056 (Juvenile Case).

308142

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $815.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joezenna Golatte, Mother, re: A.
Golatte and J. Jones, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00045 and 09-JA-00046 (Juvenile
Cases).

308143

BRIAN J. O’HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $612.50

93

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lorenzo Young, Father, re: S.
Taylor, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00418 (Juvenile Case).
308144

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$206.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Daniel Perczynski, Father,
re: D. Perczynski, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-704 (Juvenile Case).

308145

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$506.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lakeshia Murph, Mother,
re: the Alexander, Murph and Nelson-Murph children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA1075, 07-JA-1076, 07-JA-1077, 07-JA-1078, 09-JA-1079 and 07-JA-1080 (Juvenile
Cases).

308146

MICHAEL J. VITALE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $612.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Garcia, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-002132 (Juvenile Case).

308157

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,025.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kimberly Blake, Mother,
re: the Blake children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00500 and 09-JA-00589 (Juvenile
Cases).

308159

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $250.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tashia Bingham, Mother, re: N.
Thompson, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-00234 (Juvenile Case).

308160

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $968.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Calvin Moore, Father, re: C. Moore,
a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-32 (Juvenile Case).

308161

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $437.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Gillkey, Father, re: D.
Gillkey, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0878 (Juvenile Case).

308162

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $350.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Francisco Islas, Sr., Father, re: F.
Islas, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00234 (Juvenile Case).

308163

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $487.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Elaine Chatman, Guardian, re: K.
Bester and J. Davis, minors. Indictment Nos. 96-JA-1515 and 96-JA-1516 (Juvenile
Cases).

308164

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $362.13
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Irene Auther, Mother, re: V.
Auther, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-353 (Juvenile Case).

308165

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $668.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antoine Carpenter, Father, re: D.
Farr, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-579 (Juvenile Case).

94

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308166

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $137.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kathryn Lenoir, Mother, re: N.
Johnson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-188 (Juvenile Case).

308167

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $500.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Maurice Williams, Father, re: M.
Williams, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00828 (Juvenile Case).

308169

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Andra Caston, Sr., Father, re: A.
Caston, a minor. Indictment No. 92-JO-18371 (Juvenile Case).

308170

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $450.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Mott, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00594 (Juvenile Case).

308171

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,087.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sarah Brantley, Mother, re: J. Birth,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00837 (Juvenile Case).

308172

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $715.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Donte Green, Father, re: C.
Armstrong, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-843 (Juvenile Case).

308173

CRYSTAL B. ASHLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $865.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Louis Pierce, Father, re: the Hobby
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-264 and 09-JA-265 (Juvenile Cases).

308174

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $537.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Leroy Jackson, Father, re: the
Jackson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-415 and 03-JA-416 (Juvenile Cases).

308175

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $409.49
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Neely, Father, re: C. Bates, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-011 (Juvenile Case).

308176

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,887.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Takara Odom, Father, re:
E. Odom, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1198 (Juvenile Case).

308177

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,068.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Efren Padilla, Father, re:
the Padilla child, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-290 (Juvenile Case).

308178

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $470.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Shean Johnson, Father, re: R.
Johnson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00321 (Juvenile Case).

308179

WILLIAM A. LONDON, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $582.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Betty Taylor, Guardian, re: the
Givens and Mitchell children, minors. Indictment Nos. 95-JA-3003, 95-JA-05387, 95-JA-

95

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
05388 and 96-JA-04308 (Juvenile Cases).
308180

LAROMA WHITE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $925.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tara Williams, Mother, re: the
Range children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-645 and 09-JA-646 (Juvenile Cases).

308181

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$606.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Latonga Humphries,
Mother, re: R. Humphries and R. Riggs, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-960 and 08-JA1070 (Juvenile Cases).

308182

PAUL S. KAROLL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,406.25 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Jackson
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-532 and 10-JA-533 (Juvenile Cases).

308183

PAUL S. KAROLL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $775.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the King and
Lucas children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-848, 07-JA-849 and 07-JA-850 (Juvenile
Cases).

308184

PAUL S. KAROLL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,273.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, L. McDowell,
a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-65 (Juvenile Case).

308185

CHRISTINE S. MARSHALL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $1,317.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, S.
Hunter, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-868 (Juvenile Case).

308186

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $612.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Angelica Bisaga Coffey, Mother, re:
C. Coffey, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-198 (Juvenile Case).

308188

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$462.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tim Brown, Father, re: M.
Moore, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-352 (Juvenile Case).

308190

VICTORIA ALMEIDA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $575.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tyreese McSwine, Father, re: B.
Nieto-Reyes, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00427 (Juvenile Case).

308191

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,125.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kevin Robinson, Father, re: I.
Akiawale, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00190 (Juvenile Case).

308192

MELINDA MACGREGOR, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$586.08 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kyla O’Neal, Mother, re:
S. Sanchez, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-236 (Juvenile Case).

308193

MICHAEL J. VITALE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $675.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Desiree White, Mother, re: S.
Saunders, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-158 (Juvenile Case).

96

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308194

AUDREY COSGROVE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,087.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Brandy Perhac, Mother, re: I. Ivory,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-407 (Juvenile Case).

308196

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $862.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tina Robinson, Mother, re: B.
Coleman, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0759 (Juvenile Case).

308197

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $112.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Baltazar Alpuche, Father, re: the
Alpuche children, minors. Indictment Nos. 01-JA-1276, 01-JA-1278, 01-JA-1279, 02-JA01886, 07-JA-0333 and 07-JA-0334 (Juvenile Cases).

308198

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,025.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carolyn Robinson, Mother, re: the
Collier children, minors. Indictment Nos. 02-JA-00788 and 02-JA-00789 (Juvenile Cases).

308199

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $543.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Payton, a
minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0108 (Juvenile Case).

308200

BRIAN J. O'HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $687.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ernie Balderas, Father, re: M. Park,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00378 (Juvenile Case).

308201

BRIAN J. O'HARA, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,206.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Raymond Smith, Father, re: R.
Smith, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-1049 (Juvenile Case).

308202

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $537.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lisa Hannun, Adoptive Mother, re:
G. Galan, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-1150 (Juvenile Case).

308203

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $412.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, John Middleton, Father, re: the
Middleton, Miller, Morris and Newsome children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-100,
09-JA-101, 09-JA-102, 09-JA-103, 09-JA-104, 09-JA-105 and 09-JA-106 (Juvenile
Cases).

308204

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $187.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Eddie Marzette, Father, re: G.
Marzette, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-655 (Juvenile Case).

308205

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $425.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Deshunn Gilmore, Father, re: the
Gilmore children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-991, 08-JA-992, 08-JA-993, 08-JA-994
and 08-JA-995 (Juvenile Cases).

308206

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $200.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Smith, a

97

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-656 (Juvenile Case).
308207

MARILYN L. BURNS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $187.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sid Williams, Father, re: the Austin
and Williams children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-154, 08-JA-155 and 08-JA-156
(Juvenile Cases).

308208

THEODORE J. ADAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $442.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Johnnie Diaz, Father, re: R. Diaz, a
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1718 (Juvenile Case).

308209

THEODORE J. ADAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,295.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Janice Hanson, Mother,
re: the Crespo children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-271 and 10-JA-272 (Juvenile
Cases).

308210

CHRISTINE S. MARSHALL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,017.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kelvin Perry, Father, re:
S. Perry, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-031 (Juvenile Case).

308212

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $756.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antoinette Knox, Mother, re: D.
Knox, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-492 (Juvenile Case).

308213

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,581.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Samantha Watkins, Mother, re: the
Hopkins, Simmons and Watkins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-529, 09-JA-530,
09-JA-531, 09-JA-532 and 09-JA-533 (Juvenile Cases).

308215

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,028.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Veronica Escoe, Mother,
re: the Boyd, Dudley, Escoe and Gaddis children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0777,
09-JA-0778, 09-JA-0779, 09-JA-0780, 09-JA-0781 and 09-JA-0782 (Juvenile Cases).

308216

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$375.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Amal Mohammed, Mother,
re: the Hussain children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0537 and 09-JA-0538 (Juvenile
Cases).

308217

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$302.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Angelique Finley, Mother,
re: N. Finley and S. McDonald, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-170 and 10-JA-008
(Juvenile Cases).

308218

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $570.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Frank Nitti, Father, re: G. Nitti, a
minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-614 (Juvenile Case).

308219

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $387.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cassandra Hunt, Mother, re: L.
Parker, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JD-1291 (Juvenile Case).

98

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308220

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $462.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Romero Robinson, Father, re: I.
Owens, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-1138 (Juvenile Case).

308221

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $268.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Ricky Carter, Father, re: R. Carter,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00005 (Juvenile Case).

308222

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,062.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tiffany Stokes, Mother, re: the
Collins and Washington children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-125, 10-JA-126 and 10JA-127 (Juvenile Cases).

308223

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,084.05 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, C. Arnet, a
minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-0750 (Juvenile Case).

308224

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $200.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lisa Myles, Foster
Mother/Intervenor, re: M. Hollins, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-716 (Juvenile Case).

308225

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $687.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tawanda Brown, Mother, re: R.
Smith, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JD-371 (Juvenile Case).

308226

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $306.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Margo Willis McCormick,
Grandmother/Intervenor, re: D. Collins, a minor. Indictment No. 97-JA-993 (Juvenile
Case).

308227

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $506.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Danny Barksdale, Father, re: the
Barksdale children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-1236 and 04-JA-1058 (Juvenile
Cases).

308228

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $312.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Maria Sanchez, Mother, re: S.
Spears and S. Walton, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-1434 and 03-JA-1435 (Juvenile
Cases).

308229

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$610.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Melinda Hill, Mother, re:
the Hill children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-0200 and 10-JA-0201 (Juvenile Cases).

308230

ILDIKO J. BODONI, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,393.10 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Martinez,
a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-786 (Juvenile Case).

308231

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$230.45 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Max Chisolm, Father, re:

99

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
C. Johnson and R. Rutherford children, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-0224 and 07-JA0516 (Juvenile Cases).
308232

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $467.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Tatum, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-331 (Juvenile Case).

308233

PAUL S. KAROLL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,268.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Latricia Freeman, Mother, re: D.
Freeman, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JD-2721 (Juvenile Case).

308234

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $637.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Angela Brengettsy, Mother, re: A. Augustus, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA556 (Juvenile Case).

308235

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $137.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Niakia Williams, Mother, re: the
Harshaw and Partee children, minors. Indictment Nos. 00-JA-1532, 00-JA-1533 and 00JA-1534 (Juvenile Cases).

308236

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $770.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Cedric Hurst, Father, re: the Hurst
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-841 and 08-JA-842 (Juvenile Cases).

308237

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $270.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Aaron Green, Father, re: A. Green,
a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-938 (Juvenile Case).

308238

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $292.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Carey
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-898, 08-JA-899 and 08-JA-900 (Juvenile Cases).

308239

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $240.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Defries, Father, re: the
Defries children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-910 and 08-JA-911 (Juvenile Cases).

308240

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $162.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Broadnax
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 96-JA-6470 and 96-JA-6471 (Juvenile Cases).

308241

JAMES S. WILLIAMS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $160.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, B. Spindler, a
minor. Indictment No. 00-JA-1031 (Juvenile Case).

308243

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $850.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Farmer, Father, re: the
Fallon, Hollie and Smith children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1078, 09-JA-1079, 09JA-1080 and 09-JA-1081 (Juvenile Cases).

308244

EZRA HEMPHILL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,150.00

100

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Percy McClellan, Father, re: the
McClellan children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-599 and 09-JA-600 (Juvenile Cases).
308245

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $762.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Juan Ugalde, Father, re: J. Ugalde,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00874 (Juvenile Case).

308246

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $493.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Kenneth Miner, Father, re: B.
Louis, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00504 (Juvenile Case).

308247

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $754.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Edward Borden, Father, re: M.
Roberts, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-1234 (Juvenile Case).

308248

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,020.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Theopolies Stevenson,
Father, re: P. Wilson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-609 (Juvenile Case).

308249

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $441.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Robert Largent, Father, re: the
Largent children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-2 and 09-JA-823 (Juvenile Cases).

308250

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $887.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tremond Thomas, Father, re: the
Thomas children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-680, 09-JA-683, 09-JA-684 and 09-JA686 (Juvenile Cases).

308251

SHELDON B. NAGELBERG, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$433.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Louis Berry, Father, re: L.
Berry, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-0818 (Juvenile Case).

308252

ELLEN J. MORRIS, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $668.75 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, M. Johnson and
R. Strickland, minors. Indictment Nos. 05-JA-681 and 05-JA-682 (Juvenile Cases).

308257

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $775.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Darius McSwain, Father, re: J.
McSwain, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00178 (Juvenile Case).

308258

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $700.00 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lorraine Miller, Mother, re: S. Clay and A.
Miller, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-00009 and 08-JA-00010 (Juvenile Cases).

308259

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $300.00 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Adrienne Brown, Mother, re: L. Cathey, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00810 (Juvenile Case).

308260

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$921.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Franklin Long, Father, re:
the Long children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-206, 09-JA-207 and 09-JA-208

101

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
(Juvenile Cases).
308261

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$405.54 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joe Pittman, Father, re: J.
Pittman, a minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-859 (Juvenile Case).

308262

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$275.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Rose Berry, Mother, re: D.
Callon, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-109 (Juvenile Case).

308263

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $192.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, M.
Jackson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-621 (Juvenile Case).

308264

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$722.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sierra Saunders, Mother,
re: J. Saunders-Harrell, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-1012 (Juvenile Case).

308265

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,443.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sandra Washington,
Mother, re: the Washington children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-604 and 09-JA-175
(Juvenile Cases).

308266

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $1,796.68 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A.
Partington-Patterson, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-401 (Juvenile Case).

308267

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,302.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Richard Ross, Father, re:
the Ross children, minors. Indictment Nos. 01-JA-304, 01-JA-305 and 01-JA-306
(Juvenile Cases).

308268

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$655.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, James Lewis, Father, re: S.
Lewis, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-283 (Juvenile Case).

308269

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$448.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tameka McKinnis, Mother,
re: D. Gillkey, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-878 (Juvenile Case).

308270

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$455.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sierra Saunders, Mother,
re: the Saunders children, minors. Indictment Nos. 07-JA-473 and 07-JA-474 (Juvenile
Cases).

308271

THOMAS M. O’CONNELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$772.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Steven Brill, Father, re: the
Brill children, minors. Indictment Nos. 99-JA-1814 and 99-JA-1816 (Juvenile Cases).

308276

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $725.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Zakiya Wright, Mother, re: Y.

102

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Edwards, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00981 (Juvenile Case).
308329

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $661.32
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Juan Juarez, Father, re: the Juarez
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-743 and 08-JA-744 (Juvenile Cases).

308330

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $412.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, T. Jenkins, a
minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-639 (Juvenile Case).

308331

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,070.85
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michelle Phillips, Mother, re: the
Clay and Phillips children, minors. Indictment Nos. 97-JA-1740, 97-JA-1741 and 99-JA534 (Juvenile Cases).

308332

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $2,459.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Michael Gibbs, Father, re: M.
Gibbs, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-643 (Juvenile Case).

308333

RICHARD S. GUTOF, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,468.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Hector Castelan, Father, re: V.
Castelan, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01070 (Juvenile Case).

308334

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $668.75
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Ilizar and Natalla Mishiyev, Parents,
re: S. Mishiyev, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JD-700014 (Juvenile Case).

308335

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $641.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Teodosio Montalvan, Father, re: C.
Montalvan, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-00074 (Juvenile Case).

308336

DOUGLAS J. RATHE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $543.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Christina Pollworth, Mother, re: the
Pollworth children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00347, 09-JA-00348 and 09-JA-00349
(Juvenile Cases).

308337

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $993.75
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, Thomas Adams and Quentez
Lumpkin, Fathers, re: Q. Lumpkin and A. Nunlly, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-289
and 08-JA-290 (Juvenile Cases).

308338

JUDITH HANNAH, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,814.19
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tamara Thompson, Mother, re: M.
Thompson, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-908 (Juvenile Case).

308339

MAUREEN T. MURPHY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $681.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Antonio Stubbs, Father, re: S.
Hogan and D. Hogan-Stubbs, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-868 and 08-JA-869
(Juvenile Cases).

308340

DWIGHT L. BECK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,005.00

103

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Clavelle children, minors.
Indictment Nos. 09-JD-60895 and 09-JD-60896 (Juvenile Cases).
308341

ADAM J. JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $967.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Freeman and
Saunders children, minors. Indictment Nos. 03-JA-969, 03-JA-970 and 06-JA-447
(Juvenile Cases).

308342

ADAM J. JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $627.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Soto children,
minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-554 and 08-JA-555 (Juvenile Cases).

308343

CHRISTIAN S. COLLIN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $568.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Angelica Sikes, Mother, re: A.
Sikes, a minor. Indictment No. 07-JA-588 (Juvenile Case).

308344

RODNEY W. STEWART, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,312.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jimmy Adams, Father, re:
K. Boyce, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-1218 (Juvenile Case).

308345

CHRISTINE S. MARSHALL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$885.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Evelina Hines-Drake,
Mother, re: the Drake, Hines and Hurst children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-839, 08JA-840, 08-JA-841, 08-JA-842, 08-JA-843, 08-JA-844, 08-JA-845, 08-JA-846 and 08-JA847 (Juvenile Cases).

308348

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$450.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Renee Butler, Mother, re:
T. Carr, a minor. Indictment No. 01-JA-1030 (Juvenile Case).

308349

STUART JOSHUA HOLT, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,225.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, J. Craig, a
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1472 (Juvenile Case).

308350

STUART JOSHUA HOLT, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$581.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Donte Dacres, Sr., Father,
re: D. Dacres, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00029 (Juvenile Case).

308351

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $375.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jermaine Birth, Father, re: J. Birth,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00837 (Juvenile Case).

308352

STUART JOSHUA HOLT, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,181.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sharon Thurman, Mother,
re: T. Thurman, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-616 (Juvenile Case).

308354

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,812.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Murry
and Rivas children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-163, 09-JA-164 and 09-JA-1130
(Juvenile Cases).

104

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308355

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $425.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, P.
Robinson, a minor. Indictment No. 91-JA-8401 (Juvenile Case).

308356

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $900.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Katie Baker, Guardian, re: the
Baker and Dillard children, minors. Indictment Nos. 04-JA-1384 and 05-JA-464 (Juvenile
Cases).

308357

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $756.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, A. Pearson,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00904 (Juvenile Case).

308358

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,231.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Raymond Woodfork,
Father, re: L. Berry, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-498 (Juvenile Case).

308359

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,562.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, the Smith
child, a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-0015 (Juvenile Case).

308360

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,787.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Daniel Flores, Father, re:
the Flores child, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-1135 (Juvenile Case).

308361

DONNA JEAN RAMEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$2,089.32 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Melissa Quezada,
Mother, re: the Flores and Quezada children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-544 and 09JA-545 (Juvenile Cases).

308362

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,075.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Janetra Christian, Mother,
re: the Christian and Latham children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-491, 06-JA-492
and 06-JA-493 (Juvenile Cases).

308363

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $450.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Annie Byrd, Adoptive Mother, re:
the Byrd children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-176 and 08-JA-177 (Juvenile Cases).

308364

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $1,156.25 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the
Simmons and Wysinger children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-28, 09-JA-29 and 09JA-30 (Juvenile Cases).

308365

MICHAEL G. CAWLEY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,412.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carolyn Phillips,
Adoptive Mother, re: L. Phillips, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JD-1949 (Juvenile Case).

308366

RAYMOND A. MORRISSEY, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of
Court for payment of $812.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, D.
Garcia, a minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-1618 (Juvenile Case).

105

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308367

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$1,275.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, George Logan, Father, re:
C. Gillard, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-1105 (Juvenile Case).

308368

SAMUEL N. WARSAWSKY, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$650.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Alfred Scott, Father, re: A.
Mayes and Q. Scott, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-0011 and 10-JA-0012 (Juvenile
Cases).

308369

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$425.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Fair Morris, Mother, re:
the Jordan children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-120 and 06-JA-829 (Juvenile Cases).

308370

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$556.25 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, William Bagain, Father, re:
L. Bagain, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-859 (Juvenile Case).

308371

DARLENE L. REDMOND, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$962.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tamara Rutledge,
Guardian, re: J. Hall, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-858 (Juvenile Case).

308372

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $985.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Larry Floyd, Father, re: L. Floyd
and L. Jones, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0587 and 09-JA-0588 (Juvenile Cases).

308373

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $1,880.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Collier,
Elam and Morris children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-00462, 06-JA-00463, 06-JA00464 and 10-JA-0056 (Juvenile Cases).

308374

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $825.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Jones, Sr., Father, re: J.
Brown and J. Jones, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-0248 and 09-JA-0638 (Juvenile
Cases).

308375

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $530.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Roachelle Spears-Day, Mother, re:
W. Holt, a minor. Indictment No. 98-JA-04219 (Juvenile Case).

308376

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,300.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Charnise Dixon, Mother, re: T.
Dixon and C. Hall, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-00624 and 09-JA-00625 (Juvenile
Cases).

308377

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,110.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Samuel Burnett, Father, re: the
Burnett children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-0482 and 09-JA-0483 (Juvenile Cases).

308378

JOHN N. FARRELL, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,041.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, John Smith, Father, re: J. Smith, a

106

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
minor. Indictment No. 03-JA-55 (Juvenile Case).
308379

ROBERT L. FRIEDMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $775.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jennifer Thurman, Mother, re: M.
Owens, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-642 (Juvenile Case).

308380

MICHAEL D. STEVENS, LTD., presented by Michael D. Stevens, Attorney, submitting
an Order of Court for payment of $1,087.50 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent
defendant, Ramero Ramirez, Father, re: A. Ramirez, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-387
(Juvenile Case).

308382

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,037.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Lynetta Robeson, Mother, re: M.
Harris, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-534 (Juvenile Case).

308383

DEAN C. MORASK, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,525.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Angela Banks, Mother, re: the
Gaines and Strickland children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-253 and 10-JA-254
(Juvenile Cases).

308384

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $275.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Judge, Father, re: C. Judge,
a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00230 (Juvenile Case).

308385

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $375.00 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, R.
Blackman, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00654 (Juvenile Case).

308386

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $306.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Rosa Zastrow, Mother, re: the
Zastrow children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-00420 and 06-JA-00421 (Juvenile
Cases).

308388

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Robert Lee Crafton, Father, re: the
Crafton and Johnson children, minors. Indictment Nos. 08-JA-789, 08-JA-790, 08-JA-791
and 08-JA-792 (Juvenile Cases).

308389

GILBERT C. SCHUMM, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court
for payment of $887.50 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Hurst
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 99-JA-1771 and 99-JA-1772 (Juvenile Cases).

308391

DEAN N. BASTOUNES, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $718.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carolyn Snead, Mother, re: S.
Dellar, a minor. Indictment No. 05-JA-01050 (Juvenile Case).

308393

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $518.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Edward Lloyd, Father, re: J. Lloyd,
a minor. Indictment No. 10-JA-386 (Juvenile Case).

308394

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $137.50

107

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Amanda Weekly, Mother, re: L.
Jackson, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-177 (Juvenile Case).
308395

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $350.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Carlos Flores, Father, re: the Flores
children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-1092 and 09-JA-1093 (Juvenile Cases).

308396

BRIAN M. COLLINS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $231.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Joseph Allen, Father, re: T. Allen, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00547 (Juvenile Case).

308397

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $564.99
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Katonnia Kelly, Mother, re: the
Kelly and Ross children, minors. Indictment Nos. 10-JA-163, 10-JA-164 and 10-JA-165
(Juvenile Cases).

308398

STEVEN O. ROSS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $867.01
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Eugene A. Washington, Jr., Father,
re: A. Washington, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-741 (Juvenile Case).

308399

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $906.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Tawone Keith, Father, re: T. Keith,
a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00942 (Juvenile Case).

308400

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,962.50
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Samantha Watkins, Mother, re: the
Simmons and Watkins children, minors. Indictment Nos. 09-JA-583 and 10-JA-60
(Juvenile Cases).

308403

STEVEN SILETS, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $443.75
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Sonya Adams, Mother, re: T.
Croom, a minor. Indictment No. 06-JA-663 (Juvenile Case).

308404

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $625.00 attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendants, the Osorio and
Suren children, minors. Indictment Nos. 06-JA-157, 07-JA-457 and 09-JA-713 (Juvenile
Cases).

308405

STEPHEN JAFFE, Attorney and Guardian ad Litem, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $643.75 attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, N. Hernandez, a
minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-1523 (Juvenile Case).

308406

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $325.00 attorney
fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Amos Guider, Father, re: A. Guider, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00087 (Juvenile Case).

308407

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,406.25
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Deante Watkins, Father, re: D.
Watkins, a minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-01034 (Juvenile Case).

308408

PAUL D. KATZ, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,025.00

108

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Constance Monroe, Mother, re: J.
Monroe, a minor. Indictment No. 08-JA-00509 (Juvenile Case).
308409

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,012.50
attorney fees for the defense of indigent defendant, Michael King, Father, re: J. Yates, a
minor. Indictment No. 09-JA-00771 (Juvenile Case).

308410

PAUL S. KAYMAN, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $850.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jennifer Long, Mother, re: the
Fields and Paige children, minors. Indictment Nos. 01-JA-01267, 01-JA-01268 and 02JA-00162 (Juvenile Cases).

308411

THOMAS J. ESLER, Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $905.00
attorney fees for the defense of an indigent defendant, Jeffery Hall, Father, re: J. Hall, a
minor. Indictment No. 04-JA-0842 (Juvenile Case).

JUVENILE CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
JUVENILE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$2,154,796.98
$294,777.83

SPECIAL COURT CASES
308121

MECKLER BULGER TILSON MARICK & PEARSON, LLP, Richard A. Devine and
James J. Knibbs, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $21,813.16 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Enrique Campillo v. Cook County Sheriff’s Department, et al., Case No. 06-C5380 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 06-CH-26086), for
the months of October 2009, March and April 2010. To date $53,743.41 has been paid.
This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meetings of December 2,
2009, May 5, 2010 and June 2, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.,
Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308122

MECKLER BULGER TILSON MARICK & PEARSON, LLP, Jacob M. Rubinstein,
Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an
Order of Court for payment of $3,110.58 attorney fees and expenses regarding Jeremy
Bloom v. Suburban Cook County Regional Office of Education and Charles A. Flowers,
Case No. 08-CV-857 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 09CH-27715), for the months of January through March 2010. To date $14,510.60 has been
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meetings of April
6, 2010 and June 2, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308123

PETERSON, JOHNSON & MURRAY, S.C., Daniel P. Duffy, Special State's Attorney,
presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $6,450.91 attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case
No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH13088), for the period of May 23 through July 6, 2010. To date $442,717.06 has been

109

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21,
2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
308124

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,077.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Hinshaw &
Culbertson’s fee petition, for the period of April 9 through May 20, 2010. To date
$58,139.00 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at
its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308125

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,248.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Alastar S.
McGrath’s fee petition, for the period of March 30 through May 10, 2010. To date
$22,937.25 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at
its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308126

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $740.00 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Daniel P. Duffy’s fee
petition, for the period of May 28 through June 14, 2010. To date $20,530.00 has been
paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21,
2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308127

JOHN R. ASHENDEN, Special State's Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $1,243.50 attorney fees and
expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088) review of Daniel P.
Duffy’s fee petition, for the period of April 29 through May 25, 2010. To date $20,530.00
has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of
July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's
Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308128

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee and Larry S.

110

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Kowalczyk, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $3,721.50 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Duran v. Nathaniel Brown, et al., USDC No. 74-C-2949 (Petition for
Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 04-CH-19182), for the period of May
17 through June 22, 2010. To date $975,074.98 has been paid. This invoice was approved
by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check
to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for
transmittal.
308129

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee, Larry S.
Kowalczyk and Dominick L. Lanzito, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of
the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $16,000.85 attorney fees
and expenses regarding Hernandez v. Cook County Sheriff’s Department, et al., Case No.
07-C-855 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 07-CH-05603),
for the period of May 17 through June 30, 2010. To date $324,919.51 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308147

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee, Larry S.
Kowalczyk, Paul O’Grady, Dominick L. Lanzito and Kevin Casey, Special State's
Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $28,693.70 attorney fees and expenses regarding Streeter v. Sheriff of Cook
County, et al., Case No. 08-C-732 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney,
Case No. 08-CH-20570), for the period of May 11 through June 30, 2010. To date
$72,803.66 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at
its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308148

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee, Larry S.
Kowalczyk and Dominick L. Lanzito, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of
the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $8,870.86 attorney fees
and expenses regarding Phipps v. Sheriff of Cook County, et al., Case No. 07-C-3889
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 07-CH-33921), for the
period of May 17 through June 30, 2010. To date $271,908.14 has been paid. This invoice
was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please
forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, for transmittal.

308149

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee, Larry S.
Kowalczyk, Dominick L. Lanzito and David J. Flynn, Special State's Attorneys, presented
by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$7,628.80 attorney fees and expenses regarding Hunt v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 07C-6003 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 08-CH-09994),
for the period of May 5 through June 18, 2010. To date $92,124.33 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308150

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Terrence F. Guolee and Larry S.
Kowalczyk, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney,

111

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $7,639.07 attorney fees and expenses
regarding Young v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 06-C-552 (Petition for Appointment
of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 06-CH-03664), for the period of May 17 through
June 29, 2010. To date $1,449,862.57 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the
Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for
transmittal.
308151

QUERREY & HARROW, LTD., Daniel F. Gallagher, Paul O’Grady, Larry S. Kowalczyk
and Patrick G. Connelly, Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $13,768.00 attorney fees and
expenses regarding United States of America v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 10-C-2946
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 10-CH-25533), for the
period of May 17 through June 11, 2010. To date zero dollars have been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308154

CLIFFORD L. MEACHAM, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County,
presented by the Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $47,718.50 fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69C-2145. On October 30, 2008, the United States District Court entered a Supplemental
Relief Order (SRO) for the Sheriff of Cook County in this matter requiring the
appointment of a Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. As part of the
SRO for the Sheriff of Cook County, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County.
On July 22, 2010, Judge Wayne R. Andersen entered an order approving fees and expenses
for the 40th Unopposed Petition in the amount of $47,718.50 made payable to Clifford L.
Meacham, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. To date, Mr.
Meacham has been paid $2,187,127.11. Mr. Meacham has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $2,234,845.61 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M.
Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308272

CLIFFORD L. MEACHAM, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County,
presented by the Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $37,926.71 fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69C-2145. On October 30, 2008, the United States District Court entered a Supplemental
Relief Order (SRO) for the Sheriff of Cook County in this matter requiring the
appointment of a Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. As part of the
SRO for the Sheriff of Cook County, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County.
On August 9, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees
and expenses for the 41st Unopposed Petition in the amount of $37,926.71 made payable
to Clifford L. Meacham, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. To
date, Mr. Meacham has been paid $2,187,127.11. Mr. Meacham has accumulated total
fees and expenses of $2,272,772.32 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa
M. Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

112

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
308273

CLIFFORD L. MEACHAM, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County,
presented by the Office of the State’s Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $31,873.00 fees and expenses regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69C-2145. On October 30, 2008, the United States District Court entered a Supplemental
Relief Order (SRO) for the Sheriff of Cook County in this matter requiring the
appointment of a Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. As part of the
SRO for the Sheriff of Cook County, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees
and expenses incurred by the Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County.
On August 16, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees
and expenses for the 42nd Unopposed Petition in the amount of $31,873.00 made payable
to Clifford L. Meacham, Compliance Administrator for the Sheriff of Cook County. To
date, Mr. Meacham has been paid $2,187,127.11. Mr. Meacham has accumulated total
fees and expenses of $2,304,645.32 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa
M. Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308274

MARY T. ROBINSON, Compliance Administrator, presented by the Office of the State’s
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $82,346.51 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. The Board of
Commissioners approved a Supplemental Relief Order (SRO) on November 29, 2006. On
November 30, 2006, the United States District Court entered a SRO in this matter requiring
the appointment of a Compliance Administrator. As part of the SRO, Cook County is
required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Compliance
Administrator. On August 17, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an
order approving fees and expenses for the 58th Unopposed Petition in the amount of
$82,346.51 made payable to Mary T. Robinson, Compliance Administrator. To date, the
Compliance Administrator has been paid $3,731,520.36. The Compliance Administrator
has accumulated total fees and expenses of $3,813,866.87 as of today’s date. Please
forward the check to Lisa M. Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308275

MARY T. ROBINSON, Compliance Administrator, presented by the Office of the State’s
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $74,063.72 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. The Board of
Commissioners approved a Supplemental Relief Order (SRO) on November 29, 2006. On
November 30, 2006, the United States District Court entered a SRO in this matter requiring
the appointment of a Compliance Administrator. As part of the SRO, Cook County is
required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Compliance
Administrator. On August 17, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney I. Schenkier entered an
order approving fees and expenses for the 59th Unopposed Petition in the amount of
$74,063.72 made payable to Mary T. Robinson, Compliance Administrator. To date, the
Compliance Administrator has been paid $3,731,520.36. The Compliance Administrator
has accumulated total fees and expenses of $3,887,930.59 as of today’s date. Please
forward the check to Lisa M. Meador, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

113

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
308277

MARK J. VOGEL, Complaint Administrator, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $24,873.37 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. On February 12, 2009,
the United States District Court entered an Order appointing Mark J. Vogel the Post
Supplemental Relief Order Complaint Administrator for Cook County. As part of this
Order, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the
Complaint Administrator for Cook County. On August 17, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney
I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses for the 32nd Unopposed Petition
in the amount of $24,873.37 made payable to Mark J. Vogel, Complaint Administrator. To
date, Mark J. Vogel has been paid $507,855.56. Mr. Vogel has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $532,728.93 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State's Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308278

MARK J. VOGEL, Complaint Administrator, presented by the Office of the State's
Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $28,618.00 fees and expenses
regarding Shakman, et al. v. Cook County, USDC No. 69-C-2145. On February 12, 2009,
the United States District Court entered an Order appointing Mark J. Vogel the Post
Supplemental Relief Order Complaint Administrator for Cook County. As part of this
Order, Cook County is required to pay the reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the
Complaint Administrator for Cook County. On August 17, 2010, Magistrate Judge Sidney
I. Schenkier entered an order approving fees and expenses for the 33rd Unopposed Petition
in the amount of $28,618.00 made payable to Mark J. Vogel, Complaint Administrator. To
date, Mark J. Vogel has been paid $507,855.56. Mr. Vogel has accumulated total fees and
expenses of $561,346.93 as of today’s date. Please forward the check to Lisa M. Meador,
Assistant State's Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONERS COLLINS, MURPHY AND VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED
NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308284

STATE’S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County of
the Agreed Order Appointing a Transitional Administrator regarding Jimmy Doe v. County
of Cook, USDC No. 99-C-3945. This class action litigation was originally brought in 1999
and has subsequently involved the entry of a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between
the parties that was approved by the District Court in December 2002 and the entry of an
Agreed Supplemental Order approved by the Court on May 18, 2006. This petition was
resolved by the entry of an Agreed Order Appointing a Transitional Administrator (TA) by
the District Court on August 14, 2007. The Board of Commissioners agreed to the entry of
the subject order during its meeting of July 31, 2007.
On June 18, 2008, the District Court entered an order amending this portion of the TA
Order permitting the Transitional Administrator to maintain the OTA funds in a separate
account to pay reasonable costs and expenses of the staff of the OTA. The OTA account
was first funded at $800,000.00 on July 22, 2008 and the District Court entered an order
for additional funding of $500,000.00 respectively on December 18, 2008, April 14, 2009,

114

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
June 30, 2009, November 17, 2009 and April 7, 2010.
The Transitional Administrator has now presented invoice payment records evidencing
payments and a balance in the account as of July 19, 2010 in the amount of $117,197.00
which has been reviewed and accepted by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office. The
TA has requested the District Court to enter an order providing for an additional
disbursement of $500,000.00 into the OTA account which was approved by the Court on
August 3, 2010.
Upon approval, the Cook County Comptroller will transfer $500,000.00 from the SelfInsurance Fund to an account managed by the Transitional Administrator in accordance
with the terms of the aforementioned court order. From July 22, 2008 to date, inclusive of
this court order, $3,800,000.00 has been transferred from the Self-Insurance fund to the
Office of the Transitional Administrator.
COMMISSIONERS MURPHY AND PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE
ITEM.
308288

K & L GATES, LLP, Michael J. Hayes, Sr., Special State's Attorney, presented by the
Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $22,173.18
attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088), for the
month of December 2009. To date $2,275,067.39 has been paid. This invoice was
approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of April 6, 2010. Please forward
the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308290

K & L GATES, LLP, Michael J. Hayes, Sr., Special State's Attorney, presented by the
Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $17,587.83
attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088), for the
month of January 2010. To date $2,275,067.39 has been paid. This invoice was approved
by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of April 6, 2010. Please forward the check
to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for
transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308292

K & L GATES, LLP, Michael J. Hayes, Sr., Special State's Attorney, presented by the
Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $8,596.53
attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088), for the
month of February 2010. To date $2,275,067.39 has been paid. This invoice was
approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of April 6, 2010. Please forward
the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

115

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308293

K & L GATES, LLP, Michael J. Hayes, Sr., Special State's Attorney, presented by the
Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of $23,082.92
attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No. 03-C-5207
(Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088), for the
month of March 2010. To date $2,275,067.39 has been paid. This invoice was approved
by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of May 5, 2010. Please forward the check to
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for
transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308295

HINSHAW & CULBERTSON, LLP, Matthew P. Walsh, II, James M. Lydon, Steven L.
Klaczynski, Frank J. Marsico and Bernard E. Jude Quinn, Special State's Attorneys,
presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $44,751.41 attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case
No. 03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH13088), for the months of March through May 2010 (attorney fees), and for the period of
March 3 through May 24, 2010 (expenses). To date $1,409,525.19 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 14, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308296

KOZACKY & WEITZEL, P.C., Alastar S. McGrath, Special State's Attorney, presented
by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$6,845.00 attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No.
03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088),
for the period of March 29 through April 30, 2010. To date $439,214.62 has been paid.
This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of June 2, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308298

KOZACKY & WEITZEL, P.C., Alastar S. McGrath, Special State's Attorney, presented
by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$10,545.00 attorney fees and expenses regarding Fairley, et al. v. Andrews, et al., Case No.
03-C-5207 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 03-CH-13088),
for the period of May 3 through June 4, 2010. To date $439,214.62 has been paid. This
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308299

THOMAS S. RADJA, JR., LTD., Thomas S. Radja, Jr., Special State's Attorney, presented
by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment of
$4,046.75 attorney fees and expenses regarding Canady v. Davis, et al., Case No. 07-CV5028 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 08-CH-17474), for
the months of February through April 2010. To date $17,827.81 has been paid. This

116

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of June 2, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
308301

STEVEN CALCATERRA & ASSOCIATES, P.C., Steven Calcaterra, Special State's
Attorney, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for
payment of $6,734.00 attorney fees and expenses regarding Canady v. Davis, et al., Case
No. 07-CV-5028 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 08-CH17474), for the months of February through April 2010. To date $34,661.39 has been paid.
This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of June 2, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308302

PETERSON, JOHNSON & MURRAY, S.C., Daniel P. Duffy, Special State's Attorney,
presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $629.00 attorney fees and expenses regarding Brown v. County of Cook, et al., Case
No. 06-C-00617 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 08-CH13319), for the period of May 20 through July 6, 2010. To date $15,576.35 has been paid.
This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at its meeting of July 21, 2010.
Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

308325

LEINENWEBER & BARONI, LLC, Thomas More Leinenweber, Special State's Attorney,
presented by the Office of the State's Attorney, submitting an Order of Court for payment
of $4,033.75 attorney fees and expenses regarding Patricia Brenner v. Thomas Dart, et al.,
Case No. 07-L-0691 (Petition for Appointment of Special State’s Attorney, Case No. 07CH-18555), for the period of September 15, 2009 through February 2, 2010. To date
$41,314.50 has been paid. This invoice was approved by the Litigation Subcommittee at
its meeting of July 21, 2010. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.

SPECIAL COURT CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$5,666,240.20

SPECIAL COURT CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$1,098,451.11

SPECIAL COURT CRIMINAL CASES
308155

STUART A. NUDELMAN, MYLES P. O’ROURKE, ANDREW N. LEVINE, DEBBIE
COHEN, CHAD W. RILEY and ELISABETH A. SUSTMAN, Special State’s Attorney
and Assistant Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $33,701.43 regarding appointment of Special
Prosecutor, No. 2003, Misc. 4, for the following:
The Comptroller of Cook County is hereby ordered to pay interim fees for Special State's
Attorney Stuart A. Nudelman in the amount of $5,390.00, for Assistant Special State’s
Attorney Myles P. O’Rourke in the amount of $10,455.00, for Assistant Special State's
Attorney Andrew N. Levine in the amount of $7,920.00, for Assistant Special State’s
Attorney Debbie Cohen in the amount of $4,305.00, for Assistant Special State’s Attorney
Chad W. Riley in the amount of $375.00, and for Special Assistant State’s Attorney
Elisabeth A. Sustman in the amount of $4,031.25, and to pay the sum of $1,225.18 for the
total of the following expenses incurred by the Office of the Special Prosecutor for the

117

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
month of May 2010:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Services - Assistant Special Prosecutors
Telephone
Office Expenses
Paralegal/Clerk time
Lexis Nexis Research

$32,476.25
450.00
62.20
400.00
312.98

Said amounts totaling $33,701.43 to be fair and reasonable for the work performed on the
post-conviction cases (80-C-1916, 81-C-6362, 82-C-8655, 83-C-769, 83-CR-12478, 84-C66702, 86-CR-6091, 88-CR-7047, 92-CR-2771, 93-C-6684 and 93-CR-27596) as well as
the incurred expenses attributed to the preparation and case management of those same
cases. The Comptroller of Cook County is therefore ordered to issue payment to the
Office of the Special Prosecutor in the amount of $33,701.43 (310-263 Account). To date
$546,221.33 has been paid. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
308156

STUART A. NUDELMAN, MYLES P. O’ROURKE, ANDREW N. LEVINE, DEBBIE
COHEN, CHAD W. RILEY and ELISABETH A. SUSTMAN, Special State’s Attorney
and Assistant Special State's Attorneys, presented by the Office of the State's Attorney,
submitting an Order of Court for payment of $27,771.25 regarding appointment of Special
Prosecutor, No. 2003, Misc. 4, for the following:
The Comptroller of Cook County is hereby ordered to pay interim fees for Special State's
Attorney Stuart A. Nudelman in the amount of $6,215.00, for Assistant Special State’s
Attorney Myles P. O’Rourke in the amount of $13,625.50, for Assistant Special State's
Attorney Andrew N. Levine in the amount of $5,632.00, for Assistant Special State’s
Attorney Debbie Cohen in the amount of $150.00, for Assistant Special State’s Attorney
Chad W. Riley in the amount of $375.00, and for Special Assistant State’s Attorney
Elisabeth A. Sustman in the amount of $531.25, and to pay the sum of $1,242.50 for the
total of the following expenses incurred by the Office of the Special Prosecutor for the
month of June 2010:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Services - Assistant Special Prosecutors
Telephone
Office Expenses
Paralegal/Clerk time
Lexis Nexis Research

$26,528.75
450.00
150.28
493.75
148.47

Said amounts totaling $27,771.25 to be fair and reasonable for the work performed on the
post-conviction cases (80-C-1916, 81-C-6362, 82-C-8655, 83-C-769, 83-CR-12478, 84-C66702, 86-CR-6091, 88-CR-7047, 92-CR-2771, 93-C-6684 and 93-CR-27596) as well as
the incurred expenses attributed to the preparation and case management of those same
cases. The Comptroller of Cook County is therefore ordered to issue payment to the
Office of the Special Prosecutor in the amount of $27,771.25 (310-263 Account). To date
$546,221.33 has been paid. Please forward the check to Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy
State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, for transmittal.
SPECIAL COURT CRIMINAL CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010
TO PRESENT:

118

$320,902.25

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
SPECIAL COURT CRIMINAL CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$61,472.68

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MURPHY,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE COURT ORDERS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 2
Your Committee has considered the following numbered and described bills and recommends that they
be, and upon the adoption of this report, approved and that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer
are authorized and directed to issue checks to said claimants in the amounts recommended.
307955

JOHNSON CONTROLS, INC., Charlotte, North Carolina, submitting invoice totaling
$131,997.68, part payment for Contract No. 08-41-235, for Project Shield Phase III,
Sections 1 and 2 of a state of the art interoperable mobile, video and data network system
for first responders for the Homeland Security Public Safety Initiative, for the Cook
County Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management through the
Homeland Security grant, for the month of April 2010 (769-570 Account). (See Comm.
No. 307893). Purchase Order No. 171733, approved by County Board March 18, 2008,
February 4, 2009, April 1, 2009 recessed and reconvened on April 2, 2009, September 1,
2009 and January 12, 2010.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

307956

CASTLE CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION, Markham, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $328,249.50, 16th part payment for Contract No. 05-53-404, for Provident
Hospital of Cook County Emergency Department Waiting Room Renovation and
Expansion and New Outpatient Pharmacy for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy,
for the month of May 2010. Bond Issue (9000 Account). (See Comm. No. 291488).
Purchase Order No. 146203, approved by County Board June 7, 2005, October 4, 2006 and
February 18, 2009.

307961

GATEWAY FOUNDATION, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting two (2) invoices totaling
$497,970.22, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-118, to provide substance abuse
treatment services for the Pre-Release and Day Reporting Centers for the Sheriff’s
Department of Community Supervision and Intervention (D.C.S.I.), for the months of June
and July 2010 (236-298 Account). (See Comm. No. 307629). Purchase Order No.
172015, approved by County Board April 1, 2009 recessed and reconvened on April 2,
2009 and March 16, 2010.

307981

SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIES, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$253,461.02, part payment for Contract No. 08-41-247, for countywide computer hardware
maintenance for the Department for Management of Information Systems, for the month of
May 2010 (490-441 Account). (See Comm. No. 307760). Purchase Order No. 171830,
approved by County Board April 9, 2008.

308022

AUNT MARTHA'S YOUTH SERVICE CENTER, INC., Olympia Fields, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $101,275.00, part payment for Contract No. 10-41-58, to
operate the Juvenile Court Evening Reporting Centers for the Juvenile Probation and Court
Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County, for the month of March 2010 (326298 Account). Purchase Order No. 173345, approved by County Board March 16, 2010.

119

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
308073

SOUTHWEST INDUSTRIES, INC. d/b/a Anderson Elevator Company, Broadview,
Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $250,690.00, part payment for Contract No. 08-53193, for maintenance and repair of elevators for various Cook County facilities, for the
Department of Facilities Management, for the months of April and May 2010 (200-450
Account). (See Comm. No. 306927). Purchase Order No. 170937, approved by County
Board July 22, 2008.

308076

BILL JACOBS JOLIET, LLC, Joliet, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $458,625.25, full
payment for Contract No. 10-41-75, for twenty-five (25) Chevrolet Impala police package
vehicles for the State’s Attorney’s Office (717/250-549 Account). Purchase Order No.
172994, approved by County Board May 4, 2010.

308109

HEARTLAND HUMAN CARE SERVICES, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $148,759.50, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-277, for short term housing and
living assistance for minors charged with delinquency petitions in juvenile court for the
Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County, for the
month of June 2010 (326-298 Account). (See Comm. No. 307446). Purchase Order No.
171829, approved by County Board July 21, 2009.

308117

B.U.I.L.D., INC., (Broader Urban Involvement and Leadership Development) Chicago,
Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $268,000.00, full payment for Contract No. 10-41-53,
for the Cook County Recidivism Reduction Program for the Judicial Advisory Council
(499-298 Account). Purchase Order No. 173347, approved by County Board March 16,
2010.

308130

DELOITTE & TOUCHE, LLP, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, submitting invoice totaling
$307,000.00, part payment for Contract No. 08-41-127, for professional audit services for
the County’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR), the financial statements
included in the Health Facilities Report and the Clerk of the Circuit Court Agency Fund,
and the schedule of expenditures of federal awards included in the Single Audit Report for
the year ended November 30, 2009 for the Comptroller’s Office (490-265 Account). (See
Comm. No. 307078). Purchase Order No. 172146, approved by County Board December
18, 2007 and March 2, 2010.

308158

KANKAKEE COUNTY SHERIFF'S POLICE DEPARTMENT, Kankakee, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $119,178.85, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-335, to
provide boarding, lodging and medical expenses of male detainees for the Department of
Corrections, for the month of June 2010 (239-231 Account). (See Comm. No. 307746).
Purchase Order No. 171273, approved by County Board November 4, 2009.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308187

MCDERMOTT CENTER d/b/a HAYMARKET CENTER, Chicago, Illinois, submitting
invoice totaling $191,000.00, full payment for Contract No. 10-41-55, for recidivism
reduction services for the Judicial Advisory Council, for the period of December 1, 2009
through November 30, 2010 (499-298 Account). Purchase Order No. 173343, approved
by County Board March 16, 2010.

120

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308195

ARAMARK CORRECTIONAL SERVICES, LLC, Atlanta, Georgia, submitting seventeen
(17) invoices totaling $1,524,375.30, part payment for Contract No. 08-84-387 Rebid, for
food service for inmate meals for the Department of Corrections, for the period of
December 31, 2009 through January 27, 2010, and May 13 through June 30, 2010 (239223 Account). (See Comm. No. 307499). Purchase Order No. 170625, approved by
County Board May 5, 2009.
COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308211

TALEO CORPORATION, Newark, New Jersey, submitting invoice totaling $112,716.25,
part payment for Contract No. 09-41-351, for consulting and integration services for an
automated recruiting, hiring, and on-boarding system for the Bureau of Human Resources,
for the period of May 15 through June 11, 2010 (715/032-579 Account). (See Comm. No.
307701). Purchase Order No. 170466, approved by County Board October 6, 2009.

308214

WRIGHT EXPRESS FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION, Carol Stream, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $297,414.78, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-249, for the
County’s participation in the State of Illinois contract for motor fuel card purchases
submitted by the Sheriff’s Office, for the month of July 2010 (211-445 Account). (See
Comm. No. 307688). Purchase Order No. 170709, approved by County Board July 21,
2009.

308242

MOTOROLA, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $143,783.40, part
payment for Contract No. 08-41-317, for additional portable radios and related equipment
for the Sheriff’s Office through the COPS grant (792-570 Account). (See Comm. No.
307707). Purchase Order No. 170468, approved by County Board December 3, 2008, June
16, 2009 and November 18, 2009.
COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN VOTED PRESENT ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308254

BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF CHICAGO, Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$200,000.00, full payment for Contract No. 10-41-86, to provide after school programming
for the Judicial Advisory Council, for the period of December 1, 2009 through November
30, 2010 (205-298 Account). Purchase Order No. 173514, approved by County Board
June 15, 2010.

308285

JEFFERSON COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE, Mount Vernon, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $104,250.00, part payment for Contract No. 09-41-334, to provide boarding,
lodging and medical expenses of male detainees for the Department of Corrections, for the
month of July 2010 (239-231 Account). Purchase Order No. 171287, approved by County
Board November 4, 2009.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308286

ISAAC RAY CENTER, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting five (5) invoices totaling
$679,071.16, part payment for Contract No. 10-41-68, for metal health services for
residents of the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, for the period of May 1-31, and
June 16 through July 15, and August 1-15, 2010 (440-272 Account). Purchase Order No.
173342, approved by County Board December 15, 2009.

121

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308315

ANCHOR MECHANICAL, INC., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$340,390.39, 3rd part payment for Contract No. 09-53-243, for HVAC upgrade at the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the
period of March 13 through May 12, 2010. Bond Issue (32000 Account). (See Comm.
No. 307217). Purchase Order No. 169666, approved by County Board October 20, 2009
and November 18, 2009.

308318

AVAYA, INC., Carol Stream, Illinois, submitting two (2) invoices totaling $489,037.64,
part payment for Contract No. 08-41-333, for the upgrade and installation of equipment
and the network operating system of the existing countywide telecommunications network
submitted by the Bureau of Technology for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, on
various dates in the months of February through June 2010. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
(See Comm. No. 306779). Purchase Order No. 164041, approved by County Board July
22, 2008.

308320

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY ASSESSOR, submitting invoice totaling $423,045.00,
payment for postage for meter 6023 for the Assessor's Office (040-225 Account). Check
to be made payable to the U.S. Postmaster.

308321

ILLINOIS HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (IHDA), Chicago, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $375,000.00, 3rd part payment for Contract No. 10-41-49, to
manage housing counseling services in conjunction with the court’s new Mortgage
Foreclosure Mediation Program for the Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief
Judge, for the period of September 30 through December 30, 2010 (310-260 Account).
(See Comm. No. 306928). Purchase Order No. 172339, approved by County Board March
2, 2010.

308322

RED HAWK SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC., Palatine, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$387,387.00, full payment for Contract No. 08-53-389, for installation of Panasonic brand
security upgrades (replacement of closed circuit video and recording systems, and new
monitors) at the Maywood Courthouse, Maywood Lock-Up, Markham Courthouse and the
Domestic Violence Courthouse for the Sheriff’s Court Services Division (652-521
Account). Purchase Order No. 168732, approved by County Board September 1, 2009.

308324

WOOLPERT, INC., Cincinatti, Ohio, submitting invoice totaling $119,189.13, part
payment for Contract No. 09-41-202, for the development of a Cook County Highway
Asset Program for the Bureau of Technology, for the period of June 6 through July 3, 2010
(545-260 Account). (See Comm. No. 306652). Purchase Order No. 169393, approved by
County Board June 2, 2009.

308346

SOUTHERN FOLGER DETENTION EQUIPMENT COMPANY, San Antonio, Texas,
submitting two (2) invoices totaling $629,617.00, 2nd and 3rd part payments for Contract
No. 09-53-268, for replacement of security hollow metal doors and hardware for use by the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for
the months of March through June 2010 (717/031-590 Account). Purchase Order No.
170439, approved by County Board November 18, 2009.

308392

ELMHURST MOTORS, INC., Elmhurst, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $640,000.00,
full payment for Contract No. 10-41-24, for twenty-five (25) 2010 Ford Fusion hybrid
vehicles for the Sheriff’s Office (717/211-549 Account). Purchase Order No. 171802,

122

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
approved by County Board March 2, 2010.
308401

DELL MARKETING, L.P., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling $146,497.83,
part payment for Contract No. 09-41-221, for computer software, software maintenance
and support services for the State’s Attorney’s Office (717/250-579 Account). (See
Comm. No. 305654). Purchase Order No. 171181, approved by County Board June 16,
2009 and July 13, 2010.

308402

NORTHWEST FORD AND STERLING TRUCK CENTER, Franklin Park, Illinois,
submitting invoice totaling $151,725.00, full payment for Contract No. 09-84-344 Rebid,
for five (5) 2010 Ford Escape hybrids vehicles for the Highway Department (717/500-549
Account). Purchase Order No. 172628, approved by County Board April 20, 2010.

308412

WMA CONSULTING ENGINEERS, LTD., Chicago, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$161,250.00, 4th part payment for Contract No. 08-41-284, for design and construction
administration services for the repair and replacement of clean steam piping at Stroger
Hospital of Cook County for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the period of
March 1 through June 15, 2010. Bond Issue (22000 Account). (See Comm. No. 306268).
Purchase Order No. 163259, approved by County Board May 7, 2008 and July 21, 2009.

308413

ELENS & MAICHIN ROOFING & SHEET METAL, INC., Joliet, Illinois, submitting
invoice totaling $158,081.00, 4th part payment for Contract No. 09-53-236, for
Countywide Roof Replacement Project (Phase IV, Bid Package #2) at Oak Forest Hospital
of Cook County for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the period of May 15
through July 30, 2010. Bond Issue (20000 Account). (See Comm. No. 307623). Purchase
Order No. 169113, approved by County Board September 1, 2009.

308414

TRI-STATE ENTERPRISES, INC., Romeoville, Illinois, submitting invoice totaling
$378,495.00, 6th part payment for Contract No. 07-53-265 Rebid, for design/build services
for the Department of Public Health Homeland Security Vehicle Storage Facility at Oak
Forest Hospital of Cook County, for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the
period of June 21 through July 29, 2010. Bond Issue (28000 Account). (See Comm. No.
307833). Purchase Order No. 167774, approved by County Board September 17, 2008.

308415

NATIONAL ROOFING CORPORATION, Forest Park, Illinois, submitting invoice
totaling $929,002.50, 2nd part payment for Contract No. 09-53-237, for the Countywide
Roof Replacement Project (Phase IV, Bid Package #3) for the Robert J. Stein Institute of
Forensic Medicine, Hektoen Building, Durand Building, Cook County Building and
Provident Hospital of Cook County, for the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, for the
period of December 9, 2009 through April 6, 2010. Bond Issue (20000 Account).
Purchase Order No. 169114, approved by County Board September 1, 2009.
COMMISSIONER GOSLIN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE BILLS AND CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.
SECTION 3

Your Committee has considered the following communications from State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez
with reference to the workers' compensation claims hereinafter mentioned.

123

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and
by the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks to the Workers' Compensation
Commission to be paid from the Workmen's Compensation Fund.
308294

RAYMUNDO DIAZ, in the course of his employment as a Correctional Officer for the
Department of Corrections sustained accidental injuries on January 6, 2008. While
participating in training drills a co-worker fell on the Petitioner, and as a result he injured his
knee (right knee anterior cruciate ligament [ACL] rupture, medial collateral ligament [MCL]
injury, and meniscus tear). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is
submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08-WC42538 in the amount of $44,794.82 and recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee
July 13, 2010). Attorney: Samuel J. Ruffolo, Law Firm of Baum, Ruffolo & Marzal, Ltd.

308300

MICHAEL DOMER, in the course of his employment as a Police Officer for the Sheriff’s
Police Department sustained accidental injuries on April 6, 2009. The Petitioner slipped and
fell while chasing a suspect, and as a result he injured his arm and shoulder (complete
rupture of the right rotator cuff, rupture of the right biceps tendon, sprain/strain of the right
rotator cuff and upper arm/shoulder, and contusion of the right upper arm). Prior/pending
claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation
Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 09-WC-23966 in the amount of $57,010.26
and recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee July 13, 2010). Attorney: Michael
P. Casey, The Vrdolyak Law Group, LLC.
COMMISSIONER GORMAN VOTED PRESENT,
PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

AND

COMMISSIONER

308304

JANICE DONNELLY, in the course of her employment as a Patient Transporter for Oak
Forest Hospital of Cook County sustained accidental injuries on May 18, 2004 and October
23, 2005. The May 18, 2004 accident occurred when the Petitioner slipped on a wet floor
and fell, and as a result she injured her back (lumbar strain). The October 23, 2005 accident
occurred when the Petitioner was pushing a patient up an incline, and as a result she felt a
burning pain in her back (aggravation of bulging discs at L3-L4 and L4-L5). Prior/pending
claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation
Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order Nos. 05-WC-52666 and 05-WC-52786 in the
amount of $8,347.50 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within the grant of
authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's
Office. Attorney: Gerald W. Napleton, Law Firm of James M. Ridge & Associates, P.C.

308307

KEVIN J. FARLEY, in the course of his employment as a Truck Driver for the Highway
Department sustained accidental injuries on April 21, 2009. The Petitioner was closing a
heavy tailgate on his truck and felt a sharp pain in his back, and as a result he injured his
middle and lower back (herniated discs at T11-T12, bulging discs at L2-L3, L3-L4 and L5S1). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers'
Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 09-WC-22107 in the amount
of $39,883.20 and recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee July 13, 2010).
Attorney: Patricia Lannon Kus, Law Firm of Lannon, Lannon & Barr, Ltd.

308308

LYNN WORMLEY, in the course of her employment as a Counselor for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center sustained accidental injuries on March 12, 2008. The accident
occurred when a console door slammed on the Petitioner’s hand, and as a result she injured
her hand (left hand sprain). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is

124

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08-WC20944 in the amount of $2,379.80 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within
the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's
Attorney's Office. Attorney: Marc J. Shuman, Law Firm of Marc J. Shuman & Associates,
Ltd.
308309

GRACE E. KALEJAIYE, in the course of her employment as a Nurse for Oak Forest
Hospital of Cook County sustained accidental injuries on March 25, 2008. The Petitioner
fell from a broken chair, and as a result she injured her elbow, arm, neck and coccyx (left
trapezius strain, left upper arm contusion, cervical radiculopathy, contusion to the coccyx
and mild carpal tunnel). Prior/pending claims: 09/08/05 case settled for $28,819.41. State's
Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum
Petition and Order No. 09-WC-36436 in the amount of $1,761.90 and recommends its
payment. This settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Patrick J. Durkin, Law
Firm of Cullen, Haskins, Nicholson & Menchetti, P.C.
COMMISSIONERS CLAYPOOL, PERAICA, REYES, SCHNEIDER AND STEELE
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308310

ANTHONY E. WEEDEN, in the course of his employment as a Janitor for the Sheriff’s
Custodial Department sustained accidental injuries on August 28, 2008. The Petitioner bent
over to clean and heard a pop in his back followed by radiating pain, and as a result he
injured his back (lumbar sprain, L5-S1 mild annular bulge indenting the thecal sac).
Prior/pending claims: 12/08/07 case settled for $60,114.28. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez,
is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08WC-47319 in the amount of $8,042.00 and recommends its payment. This settlement is
within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the
State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Steven J. Morton, Law Firm of Steven J. Morton &
Associates, Ltd.
COMMISSIONERS PERAICA, SCHNEIDER AND STEELE VOTED NO ON THE
ABOVE ITEM.

308311

DOROTHY JONES, in the course of her employment as a Building Service Worker for Oak
Forest Hospital of Cook County sustained accidental injuries on February 21, 2007. The
Petitioner lost her footing on a slippery floor and fell, and as a result she injured her knee
(displaced patella fracture of the left knee; left knee arthrofibrosis). Prior/pending claims:
none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission
Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 07-WC-13979 in the amount of $27,669.43 and
recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee July 13, 2010). Attorney: Neal K.
Wishnick, Law Firm of Sostrin and Sostrin, P.C.

308312

WILLIAM STEWARD, in the course of his employment as a Security Officer for the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center sustained accidental injuries on March 17, 2008. The
Petitioner fell from a broken chair, and as a result he injured his lower back (lower back
strain/sprain). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting
Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08-WC-15192 in
the amount of $1,871.52 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within the grant of
authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's
Office. Attorney: Stephen R. Martay, Martay Law Office.

125

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

COMMISSIONER MORENO VOTED PRESENT, AND COMMISSIONERS
CLAYPOOL, PERAICA, REYES, SCHNEIDER AND STEELE VOTED NO ON THE
ABOVE ITEM.
308313

JANICE K. MORRIS, in the course of her employment as a Cashier for the Recorder of
Deeds Office sustained accidental injuries on January 30, 2003. While recording titles, the
Petitioner suffered chest pains, dizziness and shaking (chest pains and high blood pressure).
Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers'
Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 06-WC-03311 in the amount
of $1,000.00 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within the grant of authority
conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office.
Attorney: David B. Menchetti, Law Firm of Cullen, Haskins, Nicholson & Menchetti, P.C.
COMMISSIONERS PERAICA, REYES AND SCHNEIDER VOTED NO ON THE
ABOVE ITEM.

308314

SAMUEL SPINO, in the course of his employment as a Deputy Sheriff for the Sheriff’s
Court Services Division sustained accidental injuries on July 2, 2008. While making an
arrest, the Petitioner fell, and as a result he injured his arm and elbow (left distal bicipital
tendon strain, left tricipital tendon strain, left elbow sprain, left elbow joint pain and stiffness
and myospasms). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is
submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 08-WC53146 in the amount of $4,500.00 and recommends its payment. This settlement is within
the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's
Attorney's Office. Attorney: Lee J. Vasilatos, Law Firm of Vasilatos & Cotter, LLC.

308316

DERAL ROBINSON, in the course of his employment as a Correctional Officer for the
Department of Corrections sustained accidental injuries on April 13, 2009. The Petitioner
fell from a broken chair, and as a result he injured his knee and back (left knee medial
meniscus tear). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez, is submitting
Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order No. 09-WC-10775 in
the amount of $35,728.70 and recommends its payment. (Finance Subcommittee July 13,
2010). Attorney: William H. Martay, Law Firm of Sandman, Levy & Petrich and Martay &
Martay.
COMMISSIONERS CLAYPOOL, PERAICA, REYES, SCHNEIDER AND STEELE
VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308317

SANCHEZ ODUMBURGIN, in the course of her employment as a Probation Officer for the
Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County sustained accidental injuries on
October 3, 2008. The Petitioner turned to the right and slipped and fell, and as a result she
injured her knee and ankle (patellofemoral stress syndrome in the right knee and posterior
tibialis tendonitis in her right ankle). Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita
Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order
No. 08-WC-56727 in the amount of $2,200.00 and recommends its payment. This
settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Jim M. Vainikos, Law Firm of
Cornfield and Feldman.
COMMISSIONER SCHNEIDER VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

126

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308319

ANTHONY L. REEDER, in the course of his employment as a Counselor for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center sustained accidental injuries on February 18, 2008. The
Petitioner was struck with a chair while restraining residents during an altercation, and as a
result he injured his head, chest and back (foraminal stenosis [nerve root construction
between vertebrae] at multiple levels of the lower back and the lower lumbar region;
costochondritis [chest pain]; lumbar strain, pelvic fracture and post traumatic stress
disorder). Prior/pending claims: 04/05/06 case settled for $20,000.00. State's Attorney,
Anita Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and
Order No. 08-WC-30665 in the amount of $24,500.00 and recommends its payment. This
settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Edward Spitz, Law Firm of
Vitell & Spitz, Ltd.
COMMISSIONERS MORENO AND SILVESTRI VOTED PRESENT ON THE
ABOVE ITEM.

308323

RICHARD NADOLNY, in the course of his employment as a Probation Officer for the
Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County sustained accidental injuries on
January 19, 2006. While at a probationer’s home, the Petitioner fell backwards off of an
unusually large step (which was in violation of code) and fell, and as a result he injured his
lower back and leg (severe lower back and right leg pain). The County’s exposure in this
case, based on medical expenses, unpaid TTD and permanency, totals $343,368.75.
However, the Petitioner filed a third party claim against the homeowner whose steps he fell
on and recovered $130,559.75 (Richard Nadolny v. Gregg Bornhoeft, Case No. 07-L10111). Because the homeowner’s insurance was inadequate, the Petitioner requested
$85,750.00 from the County to settle the Workers’ Compensation case, which represents
25% of the County’s total exposure that would not be recoverable by the County’s lien.
However, the County negotiated this down to $24,500.00, and includes closure of all
medical, TTD and PPD exposure. Prior/pending claims: none. State's Attorney, Anita
Alvarez, is submitting Workers' Compensation Commission Lump Sum Petition and Order
No. 06-WC-42072 in the amount of $24,500.00 and recommends its payment. This
settlement is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. Attorney: Richard N. Rosenburg, Law
Offices of Richard N. Rosenberg, LLC.
COMMISSIONER REYES VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

$3,668,036.34
$284,189.13

COMMISSIONER GORMAN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MURPHY,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS. THE
MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 4
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting the County Board to authorize subrogation recoveries.

127

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Your Committee, concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management
recommends the authorization of subrogation recoveries be granted.
308289

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $2,394.44. Claim No. 20050442, Sheriff’s Police Department.
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

308297

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $990.63. Claim No. 20050420, Sheriff’s Department of Community
Supervision and Intervention (D.C.S.I.).
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

308303

Jerald O. Nesbit (Owner), Nicole C. Caradine (Driver), 14115
Claire Boulevard, Robbins, Illinois 60472
Sheriff’s Department of Community Supervision and Intervention
vehicle
Jack Smith, Jr., Unit #2154
November 23, 2009
Cicero Avenue near 137th Street, Crestwood, Illinois
(211-444 Account).

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $496.71. Claim No. 20050444, Sheriff’s Police Department.
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

308305

Apolonia Marica (Owner and Driver), 3407 North Oak Park
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60634
Sheriff’s Police Department vehicle
David Delgado, Unit #1655
May 7, 2010
Dempster Street near Georgina Street, Niles Township, Illinois
(211-444 Account).

Marilyn G. Vasilopulos (Owner and Driver), 1303 Elder Road,
Homewood, Illinois 60430
Sheriff’s Police Department vehicle
Iseano McDonald, Unit #1638
May 10, 2010
Markham Courthouse Parking Lot, Markham, Illinois
(211-444 Account).

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $1,933.22. Claim No. 20050445, Office of the Chief Judge.
Responsible Party:

Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Penske Company (Owner) and Noah Washington (Driver, Shred It
Company), 29 West 533 North Avenue, West Chicago, Illinois
60185
Office of the Chief Judge vehicle
Timothy Evans, Unit #M135899
July 22, 2010
Van Buren Street near Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
(310-444 Account).

128

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
308353

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Subrogation
Recovery of $7,006.08. Claim No. 20050433, Sheriff’s Police Department.
Responsible Party:
Damage to:
Our Driver:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Antigone Zaverdas (Owner and Driver), 632 Stirling Lane,
Prospect Heights, Illlinois 60070
Sheriff’s Police Department vehicle
Patrick Collins, Unit #1934
January 5, 2010
Euclid Avenue near Wheeling Road, Mount Prospect, Illinois
(211-444 Account).

SUBROGATION RECOVERIES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$43,254.56

SUBROGATION RECOVERIES TO BE APPROVED:

$12,821.08

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE SUBROGATION RECOVERIES. THE MOTION
CARRIED.
SECTION 5
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting that the County Board authorize payment of said claims.
Your Committee, concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management,
recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by the adoption of this report,
authorized and directed to issue checks to claimants in the amounts recommended.
308287

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Self-Insurance
Program Settlement Claim payment of $51.52. Claim No. 97008373, Highway
Department.
Claimant:
Property Damage:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Frank Cervenka, 5706 Wolf Road, Western Springs, Illinois
60558
Mailbox
February 21, 2010
5706 Wolf Road, Western Springs, Illinois

Highway Department snowplow crew was removing snow and ice near 5706 Wolf Road in
Western Springs, when Claimant’s mailbox was struck, causing damage to the mailbox
and post (542-846 Account). Investigated by Cambridge Integrated Services Group. We
concur and recommend payment of the above charge.
308291

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, submitting for approval Self-Insurance
Program Settlement Claim payment of $41.10. Claim No. 97008190, Highway
Department.
Claimant:
Property Damage:
Date of Accident:
Location:

Shuang Jin, 300 Le Parc Circle, Buffalo Grove, Illinois 60089
1999 Toyota Corolla
February 12, 2009
Lake-Cook Road near Waukegan Road, Deerfield, Illinois

129

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Claimant was traveling westbound on Lake-Cook Road near Waukegan Road in Deerfield,
and struck a pothole causing damage to the left front tire and rim (542-846 Account).
Investigated by Cambridge Integrated Services Group. We concur and recommend
payment of the above charge.
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

$45,260.04
$92.62

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAM SETTLEMENT
CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 6
Your Committee has considered the following communications from State's Attorney, Anita Alvarez.
Your Committee, concurring in the recommendations of the State's Attorney, recommends that the
County Comptroller and County Treasurer prepare checks in the amounts recommended in order that the
payments may be set in accordance with the request of the State's Attorney upon proper release from the
Office of the State's Attorney.
308118

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $200.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Lavelle Burns v. Dr. Hart, et al., Case No. 09-C-1437. This matter involves allegations of
civil rights violations while Plaintiff was detained at the Department of Corrections. The
matter has been settled for the sum of $200.00, which is within the grant of authority
conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office.
State's Attorney recommends payment of $200.00, made payable to Lavelle Burns. Please
forward the check to Paul W. Groah, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

308119

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $200.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding Rita
Allison v. Cook County Sheriff, et al., Case No. 09-M4-001643. This matter involves
allegations of civil rights violations by the Sheriff’s Office. The matter has been settled for
the sum of $200.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends
payment of $200.00, made payable to Rita Allison. Please forward the check to Nicholas
Scouffas, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

308120

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $10,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Guadalupe Zamora, et al. v. Dart, et al., Case No. 09-M1-303410. This matter arises from a
vehicle accident involving the Sheriff’s Office. The matter has been settled for the sum of
$10,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of
$10,000.00, made payable to Guadalupe Zamora and Josefina Villalobos and Telly Stefaneas,
their attorney. Please forward the check to Shandra Leary, Assistant State’s Attorney, for
transmittal.

130

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

308152

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $1,350.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Edgar Perkins v. Dart, et al., Case No. 08-C-6433. This matter involves allegations of civil
rights violations while Plaintiff was detained at the Department of Corrections. The matter
has been settled for the sum of $1,350.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney
recommends payment of $1,350.00, made payable to Edgar Perkins. Please forward the
check to Paul W. Groah, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

308153

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $675.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Kenneth Sharples v. Joseph Younan, Case No. 08-CV-7385. This matter involves allegations
of civil rights violations at the Jail. The matter has been settled for the sum of $675.00,
which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of $675.00, made
payable to Kenneth Sharples. Please forward the check to Nicholas Scouffas, Assistant
State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

308189

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $8,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Robert Harper v. Cook County, Case No. 07-C-2393. This matter involves an alleged civil
rights violation at the Jail. The matter has been settled for the sum of $8,000.00, which is
within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the
State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of $8,000.00, made payable
to Robert Harper and Kenneth Flaxman, his attorney. Please forward the check to Maureen
O. Hannon, Assistant State’s Attorney, Conflicts Counsel Unit, for transmittal.

308279

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $7,000,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Demarco Robinson, a minor, et al. v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 06-L-4916. We have
settled this alleged medical negligence case for the sum of $7,000,000.00, which is within the
authority granted to this office by the Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Litigation at its
meeting of July 21, 2010. State's Attorney recommends payment of $7,000,000.00, made
payable to Chuki Morris, for the benefit of her son, Demarco Robinson, a minor, and David J.
DeJong & Associates, Ltd, their attorney. Please forward the check to Joyce E. Schoonover,
Assistant State’s Attorney, Deputy Supervisor, Medical Litigation Section, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308280

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $300,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Primla Sharma v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 01-C-432. This matter was brought by
plaintiff under the Americans with Disabilities Act, alleging discrimination on the basis of a
disability with respect to her employment as an anesthesiologist at Oak Forest Hospital of
Cook County. The matter has been settled for the sum of $300,000.00 to resolve all claims,
which is within the authority granted to this office by the Finance Committee's Subcommittee
on Litigation at its meeting of July 21, 2010. State's Attorney recommends payment of
$300,000.00, made payable in four (4) separate checks as follows:
1. the first check in the amount of $243,000.00 should be made payable to Primla Sharma;

131

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

2. the second check in the amount of $45,000.00 should be made payable to David Porter;
3. the third check in the amount of $8,000.00 should be made payable to Rohit Sahgal; and
4. the fourth check in the amount of $4,000.00 should be made payable to Chawla Law
Group.
Please forward the checks to Gregory Vaci, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
308281

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $100,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Barbara Murphy v. Dorothy Brown, et al., Case No. 08-C-4520. This matter involves a
lawsuit filed against Dorothy Brown and the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
arises out of complainant’s claims under the Family Medical Leave Act. The matter has been
settled for the sum of $80,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney
recommends payment of $100,000.00, made payable in two (2) separate checks as follows:
1. the first check in the amount of $80,000.00 should be made payable to Barbara Murphy;
and
2. the second check in the amount of $20,000.00 should be made payable to Robert Hodge.
Please forward the checks to Donald R. Hallsten, Jr., Assistant State’s Attorney, for
transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.

308283

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $10,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Richard Hayes v. Officer Taylor, Case No. 09-C-1286. This matter involves allegations of
civil rights violations involving the Sheriff’s Police. The matter has been settled for the sum
of $10,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends payment of
$10,000.00, made payable to Richard Hayes and the Law Office of Jeffrey J. Neslund, his
attorney. Please forward the check to Thomas Nowinski, Assistant State’s Attorney, for
transmittal.

308306

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $10,000.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Diane Harvey v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 07-L-13812. This matter is a tort action
arising out of the Plaintiff’s incarceration at the Department of Corrections. The matter has
been settled for the sum of $10,000.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney
recommends payment of $10,000.00, made payable to Perry Grimaldi, Esq. Please forward
the check to Trey Barre, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.

308326

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to

132

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
accept Proposed Settlement of $125.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Gregory Champion v. Cook County Department of Corrections, Case No. 10-M1-16085.
This matter involves an allegation of lost property at the Jail. The matter has been settled for
the sum of $125.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney recommends
payment of $125.00, made payable to Gregory Champion. Please forward the check to
Colleen Cavanaugh, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
308327

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $2,500.00 for the release and settlement of suit regarding State
Farm Insurance Company v. Mackey, et al., Case No. 09-M6-03697. This matter arises from
allegations of an automobile accident involving the Sheriff’s Police Department resulting in
property damage at 13801 South Harlem Avenue in Orland Park. The matter has been settled
for the sum of $2,500.00, which is within the grant of authority conveyed by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office. State's Attorney
recommends payment of $2,500.00, made payable to State Farm Insurance Company and
James O’Dea. Please forward the check to David R. Condron, Assistant State’s Attorney, for
transmittal.

308328

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County to
accept Proposed Settlement of $6,375.30 for the release and settlement of suit regarding
Glenn Divita and Gary Fron v. Cook County, Case No. 09-CH-12808. This matter was
brought by plaintiffs alleging that Cook County was not in compliance with an order of the
Cook County Employee Appeals Board reinstating plaintiffs’ employment and benefits. The
matter has been settled for the sum of $6,375.30, which is within the grant of authority
conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the State's Attorney's Office.
State's Attorney recommends payment of $6,375.30, made payable in two (2) separate checks
as follows:
1.

the first check in the amount of $3,722.65 should be made payable to Glenn Divita; and

2.

the second check in the amount of $2,652.65 should be made payable to Gary Fron.

Please forward the checks to Gregory Vaci, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED PRESENT ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS TO BE APPROVED:

$13,714,960.03
$7,449,425.30

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS. THE MOTION
CARRIED.

SECTION 7
Your Committee has considered the following communications from the Cook County Department of
Risk Management requesting that the County Board authorize payment of said claims.

133

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Your Committee concurring in the requests of the Cook County Department of Risk Management,
recommends that the County Comptroller and County Treasurer be, and by the adoption of this report,
authorized and directed to issue checks to claimants in the amounts recommended.
308387

PATIENT/ARRESTEE SETTLEMENT PROGRAM CLAIMS. The Department of Risk
Management is submitting invoices totaling $442,152.89, for payment of medical bills for
services rendered to patients while in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff's Office.
Their services were rendered under the Patient/Arrestee Settlement Program (542-274
Account). Bills were approved for payment after an audit by Cambridge Integrated
Services Group, and by the Department of Risk Management, who recommends payment
based on Cook County State's Attorney's Legal Opinion No. 1879, dated July 14, 1987.
Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller in accordance with the attached report
prepared by the Department of Risk Management.
YEAR TO DATE
$7,973,814.34
$0.00
$2,826,533.62
$906,145.62
$4,241,135.10

TOTAL BILLED
UNDOCUMENTED
UNRELATED
DISCOUNT
AMOUNT PAYABLE

TO BE APPROVED
$1,078,578.89
$0.00
$542,115.94
$94,310.06
$442,152.89

COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS. THE MOTION
CARRIED.
CHAIRMAN DALEY VOTED PRESENT ON THE CLAIM REGARDING MERCY
HOSPITAL.

SECTION 8
Your Committee has considered the following communications received from the Employees' Injury
Compensation Committee requesting that the County Board authorize payment of expenses regarding
claims of Cook County employees injured while in the line of duty.
Your Committee, concurring in said requests, recommends that the County Comptroller and County
Treasurer be, and upon the adoption of this report, authorized and directed to issue checks in the amounts
recommended to the claimants.
308282

THE EMPLOYEE'S INJURY COMPENSATION COMMITTEE, submitting invoice
totaling $910,192.87 for payment of medical bills for Workers' Compensation cases
incurred by employees injured on duty. Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller
in accordance with the attached report prepared by the Department of Risk Management,
Workers' Compensation Unit. This request covers bills received and processed from July
28 through September 1, 2010.

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010
TO PRESENT:
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:

134

$5,031,597.68
$910,192.87

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION
CLAIMS. THE MOTION CARRIED.
CHAIRMAN DALEY VOTED PRESENT ON THE CLAIMS REGARDING
MERCY HOSPITAL, MERCY PHYSICIANS BILLING, AND THOREK
HOSPITAL.

SECTION 9
Your Committee was presented with the Revenue Report for the period ended June 30, 2010 for the
Corporate, Public Safety and Health Funds, as presented by the Bureau of Finance.
COMMISSIONER GOSLIN, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MURPHY,
MOVED TO RECEIVE AND FILE THE REVENUE REPORT. THE MOTION
CARRIED.

SECTION 10
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:
307925

AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR
MEDICAL CARE TO PERSONS IN THE CUSTODY OF THE COOK COUNTY JAIL
AT THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF HEALTHCARE AND FAMILY SERVICES
RATES FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 22, 2010 from Bridget Gainer, County
Commissioner:
I am submitting the attached ordinance as a new item for the July 27, 2010 Board Meeting.
The ordinance will set the reimbursement rate for patient arrestee care at the rate
established by the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family services.
Sponsored by Bridget Gainer, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROVIDING FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR MEDICAL CARE TO PERSONS
IN THE CUSTODY OF THE COOK COUNTY JAIL AT THE
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF HEALTHCARE AND FAMILY SERVICES RATES
FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE

WHEREAS, the County Jail Act, 730 ILCS 125/17, provides that the Cook County
Sheriff shall furnish medical aid and reimbursement for medical expenses for all persons in
his custody; and
WHEREAS, the County Jail Act further provides that the County Board may, by
Ordinance, limit reimbursement for hospital and/or physician services furnished to inmates

135

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
to the rates set by the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services; and
WHEREAS, Cook County currently reimburses hospitals and physicians for the cost of
medical services provided to detainees in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff at rates
which exceed those established by the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services for medical assistance; and
WHEREAS, limiting the reimbursement for the cost of hospital and/or physician services
provided to inmates in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff to the rates established by
the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services for medical assistance will
result in great savings to the taxpayers of Cook County.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article I, Section 46-3 Jail cost reimbursement, of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 46-3.
(a)

Jail cost reimbursement.
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund.
(1)

Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as the
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund, to be held by the County
Treasurer for the purpose of making payment to the County or any
private hospital, physician or any public agency which provides hospital
or medical services to arrestees with respect to injuries incurred in the
course of their arrests any person held in the custody of the Cook
County Department of Corrections.

(2)

Fee to be taxed as costs. A fee as set out in Section 32-1 shall be taxed
for each conviction or order of supervision for a criminal violation,
other than a petty offense or business offense, in the Circuit Court of the
County. Such fee shall be taxed as costs to be collected from the
defendant, if possible, upon conviction or entry of an order of
supervision. Such fee shall not be considered a part of the fine for
purposes of any reduction in the fine. The Clerk of the Circuit Court
shall remit all fees so collected to the County for deposit in the
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund.

(3)

Payments from Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund. The County
shall receive, adjudicate and make payment of requests for
reimbursement of hospital or medical expenses from the Arrestee's
County Jail Medical Costs Fund in accordance with law.

(b)
County health services costs; detainee obligation to reimburse County.
Detainees who are reasonably able to pay for hospital or medical services provided or paid
for by the County, as defined as payment through any insurance program or other medical
benefit programs available to such detainee, shall be required to reimburse the County for
the costs of such services.
(c)
Reimbursement for Patient Arrestee Medical Care. Pursuant to 730 ILCS
125/17, reimbursement by the County of Cook for that portion of hospital and/or physician

136

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
services provided to inmates after remanded to the custody of the Cook County Sheriff
shall be limited to the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services rates for
medical assistance in effect at the time the costs are incurred.

Effective Date: This Amended Ordinance shall be in effect upon adoption.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 07/27/10.
NOTE:

Commissioner Gainer submitted a Substitute Ordinance Amendment for
Communication No. 307925, as follows:

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNICATION NO.
307925
Sponsored by Bridget Gainer, County Commissioner; and Co-Sponsored by Jerry Butler,
County Commissioner.
PROVIDING FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR MEDICAL CARE TO PERSONS
IN THE CUSTODY OF THE COOK COUNTY JAIL AT THE
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF HEALTHCARE AND FAMILY SERVICES RATES
FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
WHEREAS, the County Jail Act, 730 ILCS 125/17, provides that the Cook County
Sheriff shall furnish medical aid and reimbursement for medical expenses for all persons in
his custody; and
WHEREAS, the County Jail Act further provides that reimbursement for medical
expenses for all persons remanded to the Cook County Sheriff shall be provided by Cook
County; and
WHEREAS, the County Jail Act further provides that the County Board may, by
ordinance limit reimbursement for hospital and/or physician services furnished to inmates
to the rates set by the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services; and
WHEREAS, Cook County currently reimburses hospitals and physicians for the cost of
medical services provided to detainees in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff at rates
which exceed those established by the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services for medical assistance; and
WHEREAS, limiting the reimbursement for the cost of hospital and/or physician services
provided to inmates in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff to the rates established by
the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services for medical assistance will
result in great savings to the taxpayers of Cook County.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Sec. 46-3, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 46-3.
(a)

Jail cost reimbursement.
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund.

137

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

(1)

Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as the
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund, to be held by the County
Treasurer for the purpose of making payment to the County or any
private hospital, physician or any public agency which provides hospital
or medical services to arrestees any person held in the custody of the
Cook County Department of Corrections with respect to injuries
incurred in the course of their arrests.

(2)

Fee to be taxed as costs. A fee as set out in Section 32-1 shall be taxed
for each conviction or order of supervision for a criminal violation,
other than a petty offense or business offense, in the Circuit Court of the
County. Such fee shall be taxed as costs to be collected from the
defendant, if possible, upon conviction or entry of an order of
supervision. Such fee shall not be considered a part of the fine for
purposes of any reduction in the fine. The Clerk of the Circuit Court
shall remit all fees so collected to the County for deposit in the
Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund.

(3)

Payments from Arrestee's County Jail Medical Costs Fund. The
County shall receive, adjudicate and make payment of requests for
reimbursement of hospital or medical expenses from the Arrestee's
County Jail Medical Costs Fund in accordance with law.

(b) County health services costs; detainee obligation to reimburse County.
Detainees who are reasonably able to pay for hospital or medical services provided or paid
for by the County, as defined as payment through any insurance program or other medical
benefit programs available to such detainee, shall be required to reimburse the County for
the costs of such services.
(c) Reimbursement for Patient Arrestee Medical Care. Pursuant to 730 ILCS
125/17, reimbursement by the County of Cook for that portion of hospital and/or physician
services provided to inmates after remanded to the custody of the Cook County Sheriff
shall be limited to the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services rates for
medical assistance in effect at the time the costs are incurred.
Effective Date: This amended ordinance shall be in effect upon adoption.
COMMISSIONER GAINER, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN,
MOVED TO ACCEPT THE PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 307925. THE MOTION TO
ACCEPT THE SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT CARRIED.
COMMISSIONER GAINER, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SUFFREDIN,
MOVED
THAT
THE
SUBSTITUTE
ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT
(COMMUNICATION NO. 307925) BE APPROVED AND ADOPTED. THE
MOTION CARRIED.

SECTION 11

138

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Your Committee has considered the bids submitted on the items hereinafter described in accordance
with the specifications on file in the Office of the County Purchasing Agent. Communications from the
County Purchasing Agent submitting recommendations on the award of contracts for said items, be and
by the adoption of this Report, awarded as follows. The deposit checks are ordered returned to the
unsuccessful bidders at once and to the successful bidders upon the signing of the contract.
Item Numbers correspond to backup material for this meeting’s agenda, and may appear out of numeric
sequence in this report.
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MORENO, MOVED APPROVAL
OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING BID ITEMS 1 THROUGH 4. THE MOTION
CARRIED.

BIDS RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD
Item 1

CONTRACT NO. 10-84-34 REBID
Rental of twelve (12) hybrid sport utility vehicles including full service maintenance,
collision damage waiver, liability coverage and unlimited mileage for the Sheriff’s Child
Support Enforcement Division, to:
Enterprise Leasing Company of Chicago, LLC

Item 2

$320,220.00

CONTRACT NO. 10-84-37
Xerographic paper (various offset, index tag, NCR, etc.) for Cook County Facilities, to:
Bren Products Company
Bren Products Company

Section I
Section II

$2,829,401.41
55,146.34
$2,884,547.75

CHAIRMAN DALEY AND COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON ITEM 2.
Item 3

CONTRACT NO. 10-45-48
Sheets, pillowcases, towels and washcloths for the Department of Corrections, to:
Tabb Textiles, Inc.

Item 4

$234,720.00

CONTRACT NO. 10-45-51 REBID *
Meat products for the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, to:
Finer Foods, Inc.

$395,082.05

* This item was withdrawn at the July 27, 2010 Board meeting.
COMMISSIONERS GORMAN AND MORENO VOTED PRESENT, AND
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED NO ON ITEM 4.

139

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

SECTION 12
Your Committee has considered the highway bills submitted by the Superintendent of Highways for
approval and payment.
Your Committee, after considering said bills, recommends that they be, and by the adoption of this
report, approved.
AMENDMENT TO HIGHWAY BILLS
The back-up material for the Highway Bills (which is distributed under separate cover), requires a
correction on page 7, as shown below. The last journal entry transposed the cents. It should read 34
cents, not 43 cents. The Grand Total as shown is correct.
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
COMPTROLLER’S OFFICE JOURNAL
BILLS TRANSMITTED FROM DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
Cook County Highway Department – September 1, 2010
Vendor

Description

Amount

Motor Fuel Tax Fund, #5300 (600-600)
S.T.A.T.E. Testing LLC

85-W8140-01-RP
Potter Rd.

$127.47

05-B6422-03-FP
183rd St.

$1,455.32

09-W3915-01-RP
Central Ave.

$95.09

09-B1113-08-RP
Devon Ave.

$721.84

09-6HISP-33-ES
CQA

($877.43 .34)
Grand Total

$1,522.38

COMMISSIONER MORENO, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MURPHY,
MOVED TO APPROVE THE AMENDMENT TO THE HIGHWAY BILLS. THE
MOTION TO AMEND CARRIED.
COMMISSIONER MORENO, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MURPHY,
MOVED APPROVAL OF THE HIGHWAY BILLS, AS AMENDED. THE
MOTION CARRIED.

COMMISSIONER MORENO, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED TO ADJOURN. THE MOTION CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS

140

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
JOHN P. DALEY, Chairman
ATTEST: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the Report of the Committee on
Finance be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT
AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 5, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting that the Board of Commissioners reconsider and to approve as amended the following
contracts for substance abuse treatment services, which were previously approved on the May 04,
2010 Board Agenda.
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.

VENDOR
A Safe Haven
Chicago, Illinois
Contract No. 08-50-1006P

CONTRACT
AMOUNT

INCREASE
REQUESTED

$20,000.00

$9,000.00

The Womens' Treatment
Center
$50,000.00
Chicago, Illinois
Contract No. 08-41-2053 08-45-2053
Gateway Foundation, Inc.
Chicago, Illinois
Contract No. 08-41-263

$21,000.00

$115,000.00

$50,000.00

Loretto Hospital
Chicago, Illinois
Contract No. 08-41-267

$140,000.00

$59,000.00

McDermott Center
Chicago, Illinois

$133,750.00

$55,800.00

141

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Contract No.08-41-265
South Suburban Council
on Alcoholism
East Hazel Crest, Illinois
Contract No. 08-41-264

$100,000.00

$42,000.00

Henry's Sober Living
Chicago, Illinois
Contract No. 08-50-1006P

$ 20,000.00

$ 9,000.00

Reason:

This increase and extension will allow the Adult Probation Department to continue to provide
substance abuse services to clients while a new Request for Proposal (RFP) is being prepared
and new contracts can be established. The RFP was set to be issued around April 6, 2010
with responses due back by May 17, 2010 and after reviewing all bids the committee will
submit the selected vendors sometime during the month of July 2010. The expiration date of
the current contract was June 30, 2010. These contracts were originally approved by the
Cook County Board on May 04, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $245,800.00. Contract extension: July 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010.
(532-272 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2010 funds.
Sufficient funds are available in the Adult Probation/Probation Service Fee Fund.
_________________________
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to reconsider previously approved
contract, which was previously approved on May 4, 2010. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that previously approved contract
be approved as amended. The motion carried unanimously.
GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 2, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $297,848.00 from the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services. This grant will fund enhanced substance abuse treatment and communitybased supportive services for nonviolent, youthful adult offenders, 17-25 years of age, who participate in
the Veteran's Court Drug Treatment Program in the Criminal Division, Circuit Court of Cook County.
Grant funds will be dedicated to contractual services, travel, staff training, and supplies and will be
administered by the Adult Probation Department.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was provided by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on November 4, 2009 in the amount of $296,480.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $297,848.00. Funding period: September 30, 2010
through September 29, 2011.

142

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the request of the Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court of Cook County be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 29, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into contracts with the following vendors to
provide substance abuse testing and treatment services for the Criminal Division's Adult Drug Treatment
Court Program.
VENDOR

REQ. NO.

CONTRACT AMOUNT

Cornell Interventions, Inc.
Woodridge, Illinois

15324001

$50,000.00

A Safe Haven
Chicago, Illinois

15324002

$15,000.00

Resurrection Behavioral Health
Broadview, Illinois

15324003

$10,000.00

Loretto Hospital
Chicago, Illinois

15324004

$75,000.00

Healthcare Alternative
Systems, Inc.
Chicago, Illinois

15324005

$20,000.00

Henry's Sober Living House
Chicago, Illinois

15324006

$10,000.00

McDermott Center
d/b/a Haymarket Center
Chicago, Illinois

15324007

$55,000.00

Gateway Foundation
Chicago, Illinois

15324008

$110,000.00

Deer Rehabilitation Services
Chicago, Illinois

15324009

$10,000.00

Universal Family
Connection, Inc.

15324010

$15,000.00

143

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Chicago, Illinois
The South Suburban Council
on Alcoholism and Substance
Abuse
East Hazel Crest, Illinois

15324011

$80,000.00

South East Alcohol and
Drug Abuse Center
Chicago, Illinois

15324012

$15,000.00

The Women's Treatment
Center
Chicago, Illinois

15324013

$28,000.00

TOTAL

$493,000.00

Reason:

These vendors provide services to nonviolent, adult criminal offenders deemed eligible for
participation in the drug treatment court program. Contract services will include substance
abuse assessment, random drug screening, group and individual counseling, residential
treatment, health education and aftercare services. Services are combined with close court
supervision to help participants return to the community as self-sufficient, productive citizens.
The vendors were selected through a Request for Proposal (RFP) process. Contracts awarded
as a result of the RFP may be considered for a one (1) year renewal up to a maximum of three
(3) years contingent upon performance and availability of funding.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $493,000.00. Contract period: December 1, 2010 through November 30, 2011.
(532-272 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the Adult Probation/Probation Service Fee Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to enter into the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 15, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for fourteen (14) months, Contract No. 0883-229 with Mensiks Fleet Maintenance, Chicago, Illinois, for vehicle maintenance services.
Reason:

This extension would allow the department to continue vehicle maintenance services for its
fleet. Approximately $41,232.50 remains on this contract, originally approved by the Cook
County Board on September 3, 2008. The expiration date of the current contract is September
30, 2010.

144

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: October 1, 2010 to November 30, 2011.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
repair of the watchman's residence at 13800 South Harlem Avenue, Orland Park, Illinois, in Bremen
Township, County Board District #6 17.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

100876
$306.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $306.00.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived, as
amended. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to
repair and construct sidewalk at general headquarters at 536 North Harlem Avenue, River Forest, Illinois,
in Proviso Township, County Board District #9.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

100894
$232.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,

145

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $232.50.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
demolition of the comfort station at Dan Ryan Woods at 87th and South Western Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois, in Calumet Township, County Board District #3.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

101006
$640.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $640.50.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
demolition of the log cabin structure at 8800 West Belmont Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, in Leyden
Township, County Board District #9.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

101007
$655.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.

146

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $655.50.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for the Mount Prospect Park District for
plumbing fixture installation for the car wash at 1645 Carboy Road, Mount Prospect, Illinois, in Elk
Grove Township, County Board District #15.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101271
$208.50
$187.65
$20.85

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $187.65.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center for
removal of a sink in Building 104 at 2160 South First Street, Maywood, Illinois, in Proviso Township,
County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101365
$163.50
$147.15
$16.35

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.

147

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $147.15.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center for
Building 104, Pyxis Relocation at 2160 South First Street, Maywood, Illinois, in Proviso Township,
County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101125
$546.00
$491.40
$ 54.60

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $491.40.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Loyola University Medical Center for
interior remodel of Building 102 at 2160 South First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois, in Proviso Township,
County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%:
Amount Due 10%:

101195
$435.00
$391.50
$43.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent 10% of the standard permit fee
as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $391.50.

148

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$1,217.70
$30,509.12

_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the permit fees be waived. The
motion carried unanimously.
RESOLUTIONS
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
WILLIAM MOORE, Chief, Bureau of Community Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding G2 Properties, LLC request for a Class 6b property tax
incentive located at 871 East State Parkway, Schaumburg, Illinois.
G2 Properties, LLC requests approval of the tax incentive based on special circumstances, abandonment,
under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company can complete its
application to the Assessor of Cook County.
10-R-321
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER

PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from G2
Properties, LLC, Resolution No. R-10-034 from the Village of Schaumburg for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 871 State Parkway, Schaumburg, Cook County, Illinois, County Board District #15,
Property Index Number: 07-11-400-059-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as building's and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, or purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchased for value by a
disinterested buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is
deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purposes of Class 6b; and

149

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned
for 11 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present and that there is a
purchase for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated 45 new full time jobs, and retain 12 full time jobs.
The Village of Schaumburg finds that special circumstances exists in that the property has been vacant
and unused for less than 24 months and there is excessive vacancy in the Schaumburg industrial market,
and that the Class 6b special circumstances is necessary for development to occur on the property; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property
located at 871 State Parkway, Schaumburg, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
WILLIAM MOORE, Chief, Bureau of Community Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (as general partner of
First Industrial, L.P.) request for a Class 6b property tax incentive, located at 580 Slawin Court, located in
Mount Prospect, Illinois.
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (as general partner of First Industrial, L.P.) requests approval of the tax
incentive based on Special Circumstances, abandonment, under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution
is required so that the company can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
10-R-322
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER

150

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from the
First Industrial Realty Trust, Inc. (as general partner of First Industrial, L. P.), a Maryland Corporation,
and Resolution No. 10-10 from the Village of Mount Prospect for an abandoned industrial facility located
at 580 Slawin Court, Mount Prospect, Cook County, Illinois, County Board District #15, Property Index
Numbers: 03-35-104-055-0000 and 03-35-104-053-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as building's and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, or purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of more than 24 months and no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is
deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purposes of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned
for 28 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present and that the property
has been vacant for more than 24 months with no purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated 50 new full time jobs. The Village of Mount
Prospect states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific real estate. The Village
of Mount Prospect resolution cites the special circumstances including that the Village is at a competitive
disadvantage with nearby DuPage and Lake Counties and their tax structures and the request is in the best
interest of the economic development in Mount Prospect, supporting its industrial growth and increasing
employment opportunities. The Village of Mount Prospect further finds that this incentive is necessary
for development to occur on the property; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property
located at 580 Slawin Court, Mount Prospect, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.

151

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
WILLIAM MOORE, Chief, Bureau of Community Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding Meijer Stores Limited Partnership, request for a Class 8
property tax incentive, located at 1501 15701 South Harlem Avenue (a/k/a 1501 15701 71st Court).
Meijer Stores Limited Partnership requests approval of the tax incentive based on Special Circumstances,
abandonment, under the Class 8 Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company can
complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
10-R-323
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT
AND ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for a facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Meijer
Stores Limited Partnership, Resolution No. 0911 of the Village of Orland Park for an abandoned facility
located at 1501 South Harlem Avenue (a/k/a 1507 71st Court), Orland Park, Cook County, Illinois,
County Board District #17, Property Index Number: 28-18-310-015-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, or purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchased for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and

152

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned
for 15 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present, and that there is a
purchase for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest and the property is
located in Bremen Township, one of the eligible subject areas of the Class 8; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated 56 full time jobs and 94 part time jobs will be
created, and an estimated 110-130 construction jobs will be created; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Orland Park states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur. The
municipal resolution cites the special circumstances including the desire to promote the redevelopment,
substantial rehabilitation and expansion of commercial industry in Orland Park. In addition to the reuse of
a vacant big box store Meijer Stores Limited Partnership is committed to infuse an investment of 9
million dollars into the reoccupation and redevelopment of the property and the granting of the Class 8
tax incentive is necessary for development to occur and the improvement and utilization thereof will
generate significant revenue to the Village of Orland Park and Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property
located at 1501 South Harlem Avenue (a/k/a 1507 71st Court), Orland Park, Cook County, Illinois, is
deemed abandon with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to the Proposed Resolution be
amended. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CHANGE ORDER
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 20, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting that the Board of Commissioners approve, as amended the following Change Order,
Communication No. 307197, which was previously referred to the Committee on Construction on June
15, 2010 and approved at the June 29, 2010 Construction Committee Meeting and approved by the full
Board of Commissioners on July 13, 2010 Board Meeting, Communication No. 307197.
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.

153

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Transmitting a Communication, dated May 17, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 1 2 in the amount of $18,274.00 to the
contract with Nia Architects, Incorporated, Chicago, Illinois, for the Architectural/Engineering Services
Interior Renovation and Build-Out at Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County and Stroger Hospital of Cook
County Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This change order is for design services to meet Occupational Safety and Health
Administration requirements to identify hazardous materials and monitoring of air quality
during abatement and, investigation of the structural integrity of the roof and support systems
for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County - F Building.
This is categorized as a renovation project.
Contract No. 07-41-469
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $18,274.00.
Hospitals.

$200,000.00
10,000.00
$210,000.00
18,274.00
$228,274.00

Bond Issue (28000 Account) 28000 Cook County Health &

The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Chief Operating Officer will submit this item to the Cook
County Health & Hospitals System Board for their approval.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program Projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
approved this item at their meeting on June 26, 2010.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved that the Director of the Office of
Capital Planning and Policy be approved as amended. The motion carried unanimously.
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for construction services for the
Recorder of Deeds - Counter Modification Project.

154

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
This project provides for construction services to install a new service counter to accommodate the
disabled, staff and the public. The project includes demolition of the existing counter and fabrication and
installation of a new counter.
7000 County Building.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program Projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 6, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for construction services for the
door and hardware replacement at Stroger Hospital of Cook County Project.
This project provides for construction services to remove and replace automatic doors and hardware
throughout Stroger Hospital of Cook County which have been subjected to extremely heavy use. The
doors have reached or exceeded the end of their expected service life necessitating the replacement.
28000 Cook County Health & Hospitals.
This item has been submitted to the Finance Committee of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Board for their approval at their August 13, 2010 meeting.
This project was included in the 2010 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on November 19, 2009.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of design/build
services for the Ceiling Tile Upgrade at Division III, South Campus, Markham and Maywood Project.
This project provides for the design and installation of ceiling tile at South Campus, Division III,
Markham and Maywood Courthouses. Current ceiling tiles and metal supports are damaged, aged and it
is difficult to obtain replacement parts.

155

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
This is categorized as a renovation project.
20000 County Physical Plant.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009 and the 2010 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the
Board of Commissioners on November 19, 2009.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the request of the Director of the
office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved as amended, and that County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
CHANGE ORDER
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 4, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 4 in the amount of $50,201.86 to the contract
with Madison Construction, Orland Park, Illinois, for the Pharmacy Build-outs at Cook County Bureau of
Health Services, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Fantus Clinic and Oak Forest Hospital of Cook
County, Bid Package 2 Project. This change order also includes a time extension of 113 calendar days. It
is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

This project provides for a new Uninterrupted Power Source System (UPS) and required
electrical panel enhancements at Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County. Also, included is the
relocation of a radiant ceiling panel, fan coil unit thermostats and pass through windows and
speaker boxes at both Fantus Clinic and Stroger Hospital of Cook County.
The time extension allows for the equipment manufacturer to install and commission the pill
dispensing unit so that the general contractor can then connect the electrical and air supply.
Contract No. 07-53-562
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$2,737,000.00
151,556.43
$2,888,556.43
50,201.86
$2,938,758.29

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $50,201.86. Contract extension: August 11, 2010 through December 1, 2010.
28000 Cook County Health & Hospitals.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
This item has been submitted to the Finance Committee of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Board for their approval at their August 13, 2010 meeting.
_________________________

156

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the request of the Director of the
Office of Capital Planning and Policy be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Gorman voted "present".

CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
CONTRACTS
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 5, 2010 from
DOROTHY A. BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with AmCad, LLC, Broadway,
Virginia, for maintenance and technical support for the Imaging and Document Management System.
Reason:

AmCad, LLC is currently implementing a comprehensive Imaging and Document
Management System within the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court. The vendor has
proprietary rights to the system currently in operation.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $189,000.00. Contract period: September 15, 2010 through September 14,
2011. (528-630 Account). Requisition No. 05281200.
Sufficient funds available in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Automation Fund.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the technical aspect of this
recommendation.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to enter into the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 5, 2010 from
DOROTHY A. BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with System Innovators, a
division of Harris, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, regarding the upgrade and implementation of the Cashiering
and Revenue Collection System for the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Reason:

System Innovators, a division of Harris is currently providing technical support and service
for the revenue collector software. System Innovators has the proprietary rights to upgrade
from the current revenue collector software to iNovah software and includes the replacement

157

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
of customized point of sale hardware devices in addition to the installation of iNovah's
software application.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,087,454.00. Contract period: November 1, 2010 through October 31, 2011.
(528-260 Account). Requisition No. 05281201.
Sufficient funds available in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Automation Fund.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the technical aspect of this
recommendation.

Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Information Technology & Automation. (Comm. No. 308440). The motion carried
unanimously.
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 18, 2010 from
DOROTHY A. BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $31,781.00 to Digital Bridge, Orem, Utah, for the
maintenance and technical support application software regarding electronic warrants.
Reason:

The purpose for this request is to enable us to make final payment for the e-Warrants
subscription project to cover unanticipated expenses needed to support the completion of the
e-Warrants project.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $31,781.00. (528-630 Account).
Sufficient funds available in the Clerk of the Circuit Court Automation Fund.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308441). The motion carried unanimously.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR REPORT
Transmitting a Communication from
DOROTHY A. BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
submitting the FY 2009 Independent Auditor Report which includes the Report of Internal Controls Over
Financial Reporting and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements
Performed in Accordance with Government Auditing Standards for the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court.

158

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Please accept this report and refer it to the Audit Committee for review.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Audit. (Comm. No. 308442). The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
JOURNAL
January 12, 2010
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk presented in printed form a record of the Journal of the Proceedings of
the meeting held on Tuesday, January 12, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Rules & Administration. (Comm. No. 308443). The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of print shop
paper.
Contract period: December 1, 2010 through November 30, 2011. (239-355 Account). Requisition No.
12390013.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
CONTRACT ADDENDA
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 2, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County

159

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $400,000.00, Contract No. 09-41-335
with Kankakee County, Kankakee, Illinois, for boarding and lodging of male detainees from the Cook
County Department of Corrections.
Board approved amount 11-04-09:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$ 900,000.00
400,000.00
$1,300,000.00

This increase is needed to cover the cost of additional boarding and lodging of male detainees
from the Cook County Department of Corrections that exceeded the number originally
anticipated when this agreement was approved last year.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $400,000.00. (239-231 Account).
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to increase the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 28, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
SALVADOR GODINEZ, Executive Director, Department of Corrections
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $25,000.00 and extend for two (2)
months, Contract No. 08-53-126 with Orkin Pest Control, Chicago, Illinois, for pest control services.
Board approved amount 07-22-08:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$230,880.00
25,000.00
$255,880.00

This increase and extension will allow sufficient time for the new contract to be awarded.
The expiration date of the current contract is September 2, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $25,000.00. Contract extension: September 3, 2010 through November 2,
2010. (239-235 Account).
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to increase the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE

160

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Transmitting a Communication from
JAMES D'AMICO, Director, Department of Facilities Management
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the Brick Retaining Wall
Project at the Department of Corrections.
One time purchase.
20000 County Physical Plant.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.

SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT OF FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES
GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 27, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
WILLIE WINTERS, Executive Director, Jail Diversion & Crime Prevention Division
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $130,574.00 from the Illinois Department of
Human Services (IDHS). This initiative provides alcohol, tobacco, and other drug abuse prevention
services in Leyden, Norwood Park, Riverside, and Stickney Townships.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on July 21, 2009 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $108,376.00. Approval for a supplemental amount of $38,172.00 was
given by the Board of Commissioners on November 18, 2009.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $130,574.00. Funding period: July 1, 2010 through June
30, 2011.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Executive
Director of the Jail Diversion & Crime Prevention Division be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
CONTRACT ADDENDUM

161

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for four (4) months, Contract No. 08-41-287
with Intellitech Corporation, Poland, Ohio, for the implementation of the Jail Management Information
System.
Reason:

This extension will allow sufficient time for completion of the Jail Management Information
System. Approximately $945,715.71 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the
current contract was August 29, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: August 30, 2010 through December 31, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
RESOLUTIONS
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 8, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Department of Corrections Inmate Trust Fund at Fifth Third Bank.
10-R-309
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Fifth Third
Bank for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections Inmate Trust Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:

162

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

1.
2.
3.
4.

Sojourner Colbert
George Holly
John Konrad
Gary Hickerson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore shall be deleted as a signatories:
1. Scott Kurtovich
2. Daniel Brown
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 8, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Department of Corrections Commissary Fund at Amalgamated Bank of Chicago.
10-R-310
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and

163

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Amalgamated
Bank of Chicago for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections Commissary
Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Sojourner Colbert
George Holly
John Konrad
Gary Hickerson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore shall be deleted as a signatories:
1. Scott Kurtovich
2. Daniel Brown
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 8, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Department of Corrections Inmate Trust Fund at Seaway Bank & Trust Company.

164

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

10-R-311
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at
Seaway Bank & Trust Company for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections
Inmate Trust Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Sojourner Colbert
George Holly
John Konrad
Gary Hickerson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore shall be deleted as a signatories:
1. Scott Kurtovich
2. Daniel Brown
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

165

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 8, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories for the
Department of Corrections Inmate Welfare Fund Account at Marquette Bank.
10-R-312
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Marquette
Bank for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections Inmate Welfare Fund
Account; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Sojourner Colbert
George Holly
John Konrad
Gary Hickerson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore shall be deleted as a signatories:
1. Scott Kurtovich
2. Daniel Brown
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.

166

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 8, 2010 from

THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer

requesting approval of the following resolution to update the bank account authorized signatories
for the Department of Corrections Petty Cash Fund at Marquette Bank.
10-R-313
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking and/or savings account at Marquette
Bank for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections Petty Cash Fund; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Sojourner Colbert
George Holly
John Konrad
Gary Hickerson

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore shall be deleted as a signatories:

167

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
1. Scott Kurtovich
2. Daniel Brown
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Auditor be directed to audit the checking accounts of
said institution at the close of each Fiscal Year or at anytime she sees fit, and to file report(s) thereon with
the Cook County Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds on said checking or savings accounts for deposit with
the County Treasurer shall be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of the account in the Office of the Comptroller.
Approved and adopted this 1st day of September 2010.
TODD H. STROGER, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD ADDENDA
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 6, 2010 from
DAVID R. RAMOS, SR.,

Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management

requesting authorization to accept a grant extension for one (1) year from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA). IEMA has informed the Cook County Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management that, IEMA is adding an additional year to the performance period of the
State – Local Hazard Mitigation Grant to ensure that sufficient time has been allotted to complete the
tasks funded by the grant award. In accordance with Cook County Grant Processes and Procedures, the
extension request has been submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for approval.
This grant provides financial assistance for the implementation of the Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management (DHSEM) State-Local Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP). The
HMGP will provide needed coordination of managing the mitigating efforts for all participating
municipalities within Cook County.
The authorization to accept the original grant was given on May 4, 2010 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $437,325.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact:
2012.

None. Funding period extension: January 1, 2012 through December 31,

168

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the request of the Executive
Director of the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management be approved. The
motion carried unanimously.

HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Transmitting a communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR. P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT:

1. Second Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreement
171st Street,
Wood Street to Ashland Avenue
in the Village of East Hazel Crest in County Board District #5
Section: 04-B8431-08-PV
Centerline Mileage: 0.41 miles
Fiscal Impact: $47,291.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Previously, your Honorable Body approved an Intergovernmental Agreement on July 12, 2006,
wherein the Agreement identified certain funding contributions, including from federal sources
secured by the Village, and cost responsibilities by the County. Subsequently, your Honorable Body
approved an Amendment on March 20, 2007 to reflect additional federal funding secured by the
Village and allocated toward the County’s improvement construction costs. This Second Amendment
reflects construction engineering costs incurred by the Village in the amount of $47,291.00, but were
not clearly referenced in the Agreement as a supplement to the County’s obligations, and provides for
reimbursement from the County to the Village for said costs. The County’s improvement cost is
amended by increasing its share of construction costs from $3,521,729.00 to an estimated net County
cost of $3,569,020.00, which includes said construction engineering costs.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that
the Superintendent of Highways be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

the

request

of

PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of one (1) flat bed
emergency truck.

169

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
One time purchase. (717/500-549 Account). Requisition No. 05008340.
This equipment was included in the 2010 Capital Program approved by the Board of Commissioners on
November 19, 2009.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of one (1) forestry
bucket truck.
One time purchase. (717/500-549 Account). Requisition No. 05008340.
This equipment was included in the 2010 Capital Program approved by the Board of Commissioners on
November 19, 2009.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of four (4) crew
trucks, F550 type with one (1) ton dump body.
One time purchase. (717/500-549 Account). Requisition No. 05008341.
This equipment was included in the 2010 Capital Program approved by the Board of Commissioners on
November 19, 2009.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.

170

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract and execute such agreements,
addenda and other documents as may be necessary to accomplish the County's participation in the State of
Illinois' contract with Prairie International Trucks, Inc., Springfield, Illinois, for the purchase of thirteen
(13) 60,000 lb. tandem axle, dump trucks with plow, spreader and pre-wet kit for salt spreaders.
Reason: This request will be completed in accordance with the procedures established by the State of
Illinois and Cook County with the respect to the Joint Purchasing Program.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,252,146.00. One time purchase. (717/500-549 Account). Requisition No.
05008324.
This equipment was included in the 2009 Capital Equipment Program approved by the Board of
Commissioners on June 2, 2009. (Item #49).
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR. P.E., Superintendent of Highway
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract and execute such agreements,
addenda and other documents as may be necessary to accomplish the County's participation in the State of
Illinois' contract with Prairie International Trucks, Inc., Springfield, Illinois, for the purchase of nine (9)
six (6) ton, tandem axle dump trucks.
Reason:

This request will be completed in accordance with the procedures established by the State of
Illinois and Cook County with the respect to the Joint Purchasing Program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,559,178.00. One time purchase. (717/500-549 Account). Requisition No.
05008348.
This equipment was included in the 2010 Capital Equipment Program approved by the Board of
Commissioners on November 19, 2009.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.

171

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

PROPOSED SPEED LIMIT ZONING ORDINANCE
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR. P.E., Superintendent of Highways
respectfully submit to your Honorable Body and recommend for adoption, an ordinance revising the
speed limit along Shoe Factory Road from Maureen Drive to Sutton Road, which is under the
maintenance jurisdiction of Cook County. The recommended speed limit was determined by an
engineering and traffic investigation in accordance with the provisions of Article VI of the Illinois
Vehicle Code and as more fully explained in the ordinance.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
IT IS HEREBY DECLARED, by the Board of County Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, that the
basic statutory vehicular speed limits established by Section 11-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code are
greater, or less, than that considered reasonable and proper on the road listed below for which the County
has maintenance responsibility and which is not under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, State of Illinois; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that this Board has caused to be made an engineering and traffic
investigation upon the road listed below; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED that by virtue of Section 11-604 of the above Code, this Board
determines and declares that reasonable and proper absolute maximum speed limits upon the road
described below shall be as stated herein; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that signs giving notice thereof shall be erected in conformance with
the standards and specifications contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, the Illinois
Supplement to the National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the Standard Specifications
for Traffic Control Items; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that this ordinance shall take effect immediately after the erection of
said signs giving notice of the maximum speed limits.
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that pursuant to Cook County Code, Sec. 82-2 all speed limits
established by the County Board are hereby ratified and confirmed. All ordinances amending or enacting
speed limits are on file in the office of the County Clerk.
COOK COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED SPEED LIMIT ZONES ON ROADWAYS UNDER
COOK COUNTY MAINTENANCE JURISDICTION

ROADWAY

EXISTING
SPEED
MILEAGE
LIMIT

SECTION

172

PROPOSED
SPEED
LIMIT

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Shoe Factory Road

Maureen Drive to Sutton Road

2.5

45 M.P.H.

40 M.P.H.

_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Ordinance be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Supplemental Improvement Resolution
87th Street west of State Street to South Chicago Avenue
in the City of Chicago in County Board District #4
Section: 06-B4234-02-RS
Centerline Mileage: 3.37 miles
Fiscal Impact: $1,500,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Board approved amount 02-15-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$3,350,000.00
1,500,000.00
$4,850,000.00

On February 15, 2006, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution appropriating
$3,350,000.00 towards completion of this project. At the time of this improvement resolution, the
primary scope of the improvement was milling, resurfacing and patching the roadway within the
limits of the subject location. Subsequently, the project scope was expanded by extending the western
limit of the improvement from State Street to Wentworth Avenue. Additional funding is required due
to the increased length of the project, including crack filling and sealing, pavement replacement at bus
pad locations, driveway removal and replacement as necessary, sidewalk removal and replacement
per Chicago standards Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), traffic signal detectable warning
replacements, additional engineering and increased construction costs not anticipated in the original
construction estimate.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Supplemental Improvement
Resolution be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL
RESOLUTION:

173

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

1. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Group 1-2008:
Walters Avenue,
Waukegan Road to Lee Road; and
Lee Road,
Walters Avenue to Dundee Road
in the Village of Northbrook in County Board District #14
Section: 04-A7322-03-FP
Final cost: $3,078,148.12
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Supplemental Improvement
Resolution be approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Highway Maintenance Resolution
Electrical and Mechanical Items Maintenance for Calendar Year 2011
Various locations countywide
Section: 11-8EMIM-39-GM
Fiscal Impact: $2,300,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Maintenance Resolution be
approved and adopted. The motion carried unanimously.
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
Transmitting Communications, dated August 26, 2010 from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
The Contractor has properly executed the following Contracts and Bonds.
ITEM
1. Elk Grove Township 2009
E.R.P. Project - Various Locations

SECTION

BIDDER

09-07109-90-FP

Arrow Road
Construction Company

Total Contract Amount: $249,124.30. Date Advertised: June 15, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: June
29, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 13, 2010.
2. Schaumburg Township 2010

10-32116-90-RS

174

Arrow Road

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
E.R.P. Project - Various Locations

Construction Company

Total Contract Amount: $479,087.80. Date Advertised: June 15, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: June
29, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 13, 2010.
3. Wheeling Township 2009
E.R.P. Project
Portwine Road to Forestview Road

09-37110-90-FP

Arrow Road
Construction Company

Total Contract Amount: $336,279.60. Date Advertised: June 15, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: June
29, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 13, 2010.
4. Traffic Signal Modernization and
LED Retrofit (14 Locations Southwest)

08-TSCMC-07-TL

John Burns Construction
Company

Total Contract Amount: $593,333.33. Date Advertised: June 28, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: July
12, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 27, 2010.
5. Furnish 800 Tons Bituminous Premix
(Cold Patch) for the North Area

10-CBITN-04-GM
Rebid and Revised

K-Five Construction
Corporation

Total Contract Amount: $78,400.00. Date Advertised: June 28, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: July
12, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 27, 2010.
6. Furnish 800 Tons Bituminous Premix
(Cold Patch) for the South and
Central Areas.

10-CBITS-04-GM
Rebid and Revised

Central Blacktop
Company, Inc.

Total Contract Amount: $72,000.00. Date Advertised: June 28, 2010. Date of bid Opening: July
12, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 27, 2010.
7. Furnish Bituminous Materials
(Hot Patch) for the North Area

10-HBITN-04-GM
Rebid

Arrow Road Construction
Company

Total Contract Amount: $88,500.00. Date Advertised: June 28, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: July
12, 2010. Date of Board Award: July 27, 2010.
8. Furnish Bituminous Materials
(Hot Patch) for the South and
Central Areas.

10-HBITS-04-GM

K-Five Construction
Corporations

Total Contract Amount: $102,375.00. Date Advertised: April 26, 2010. Date of Bid Opening: May
11, 2010. Date of Board Award: June 15, 2010.

_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the contracts and bonds be
approved and that the Proper Officials be authorized to sign on behalf of Cook County. The motion
carried unanimously.

175

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
CHANGES IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting five (5) changes in plans and extra work:
1. Section: 06-B4234-02-RS. 87th Street, Wentworth Avenue to South Chicago Avenue in the City of
Chicago in County Board District #4. Adjustment of quantities and new items. $49.00 (Deduction).

#308431

2. Section: 08-B5935-05-RP. 170th (167th) Street, Bishop Ford Expressway to Burnham Avenue in the
City of Calumet City and the Villages of Lansing and South Holland in County Board District #6.
Adjustment of quantities and new items. $445,293.30 (Addition).

#308432
3. Section: 05-B6422-03-FP. Federal Project No. M-8003 (167), Federal Job No. C-91-066-02. 183rd
Street, LaGrange Road to 80th Avenue in the Village of Tinley Park in County Board District #17.
Adjustment of quantities and new items. $81,756.73 (Addition).

#308433

4. Section: 85-W8140-01-RP. Potter Road, Dempster Street to Golf Road in the Cities of Des Plaines
and Park Ridge in County Board Districts #9 and 17. Adjustment of quantities. $224,554.15
(Addition).

#308434

5. Section: 00-W3701-02-FP. Ridgeland Avenue, Steger Road to Sauk Trail in the Villages of
Frankfort and Richton Park in County Board District #6. Adjustment of quantities and new items.
$211,075.20 (Addition).

#308435
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Roads and Bridges. The motion carried unanimously.
CHANGE[S] IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 16, 2010 from

176

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
I herewith present the following recommendation for change in plans and extra work involved on this
improvement in the Village of Mount Prospect & Unincorporated Elk Grove Township.
AUTH. NO.
1

SECTION

DESCRIPTION

AMOUNT

09-A6416-01-RP
Dempster Street
Algonquin Road to
Elmhurst Road

Adjustment of
Quantities and

$48,629.16
(Addition)
New Items

The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed.
New items were required for temporary traffic signal modification, re-establish baseline and stationing
due to incorrect stationing in the field, temporary pavement, tree and stump removal, black-out tape (6 &
12 inches), tape letter and symbol, grinding lines, letter & symbols and sidewalk removal all of which
were required to complete the project.
I respectfully recommend approval by your Honorable Body.
_________________________
Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the communication be referred to
the Committee on Roads & Bridges. (Comm. No. 308603). The motion carried unanimously.
REPORT
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending July 31, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY REPORTS
Transmitting a Communication from
JOSEPH SOVA, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
and
CONSTANCE M. KRAVITZ, C.P.A., County Comptroller

177

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
submitting Human Resources Activity Reports covering the (2) week pay periods ending July 17, 2010
July 31, 2010 and August 14, 2010.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the communication be received
and filed. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Transmitting a Communication from
JOSEPH SOVA, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith is a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Wage Resolution covering Metropolitan
Alliance of Police (MAP 438 representing Deputy Chief Electronic Monitoring) and the County of
Cook/Sheriff of Cook County, effective the date the agreement is approved by the County Board of
Commissioners through November 30, 2012 for your consideration and approval.
Effective Date 12/01/07 - 10.00%:
Effective Date 06/01/08 - 2.75%:

$56,714.00
$8,578.00

Total Estimated Cost:

$65,292.00

Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement, general salary increases and adjustments for the period
December 1, 2007 through June 1, 2008, have been negotiated between the County of Cook and the
following Collective Bargaining Union:
Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 438 representing Deputy Chief Electronic Monitoring) and the
County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Collective Bargaining Agreement and general
salary increases and adjustments be approved by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
_________________________
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried.
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".
* * * * *

Transmitting a Communication from
JOSEPH SOVA, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources

178

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

transmitting herewith is a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Wage Resolution covering Metropolitan
Alliance of Police (MAP 261 representing Telecommunications/Vehicle Service/Electronic Monitoring
employees) and County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County, effective December 1, 2004 through November
30, 2008 for your consideration and approval at the September 1, 2010 Board Meeting.
Included within this figure are Wage increases as follows for all Metropolitan Alliance of Police and the
County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County employees:
WAGES NEGOTIATED ARE AS FOLLOWS (12.75%):
Effective 12/01/04:
Effective 12/01/05:
Effective 06/01/06 (2.00%) through 12/01/06 (1.50%)
Effective 06/01/07 (2.50%) through 12/01/07 (2.00%)
Effective 06/01/08:
Total Estimated Cost:

(1.00%):
(1.00%):
(3.50%):
(4.50%):
(2.75%):

$ 2,740.33
$ 35,942.93
$ 53,721.69
$ 74,483.76
$ 56,743.12
$223,631.83

Please note: An unfair labor charge over holiday pay was filed by the Metropolitan Alliance of Police on
or about March 7, 2007. As a result, request for consideration and approval of this agreement by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners was delayed until the Labor Board decision was rendered on
March 10, 2010. The agreement was finalized between the parties and ratified by the Union membership
on or about July 2, 2010.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement, general salary increases and adjustments for the period
December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008, have been negotiated between the County of Cook and
the following Collective Bargaining Union:
Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 261 representing Telecommunications/Vehicle Service/Electronic
Monitoring employees) and County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Collective Bargaining Agreement and general
salary increases and adjustments be approved by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, move that the Proposed Resolution be
amended. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Butler seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried.
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".
* * * * *

179

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Transmitting a Communication from
JOSEPH SOVA, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
transmitting herewith is a proposed Resolution for your consideration and approval. The purpose of this
Resolution is for Appropriation Adjustments to Accounts 490-115 and 499-115 to establish prevailing
wage rates for positions specified in the Resolution.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $160,674.00.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the County is obligated to pay the prevailing rate for these categories of employee pursuant
to state statute and the collective bargaining agreement between the County and the Union; and
WHEREAS, the unions representing these categories of employees have been properly certified that the
below-listed rates are the prevailing rate for the effective dates set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill creates Accounts 490-115 and 499-115 for Appropriation
Adjustments for the Corporate and Public Safety Funds if necessary; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on March 18, 2008 adopted the Collective
Bargaining Agreement for Coalition of Unionized Public Employees (COUPE) by a voice vote.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the wages and salaries of the following positions be
fixed as follows:
ACCOUNT 490-115 (CORPORATE FUND)

Job Code

Job Classification

Hourly
Wage Rate

Effective
Date

2390
2391
2307
2310
2327
4013
2328
2330
2323
2324
2326
2320
2331
2339
2381

Biomedical Electrical Technician
Biomedical Electrical Tech/Foreman
Boilermaker/Blacksmith
Boilermaker/Welder
Chief Electrical Inspector
Chief Telecommunications Electrician
Electrical Equipment Technician
Electrical Inspector
Electrical Plan Examiner
Electrician
Electrician Foreman
Glazier
Machinist
Machinist Foreman
Motor Vehicle Driver I

$40.40
$43.00
$41.38
$41.38
$45.60
$45.60
$40.40
$43.00
$43.00
$40.40
$43.00
$38.00
$43.16
$45.16
$33.85

6/7/2010
6/7/2010
7/1/2010
7/1/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/1/2010
7/1/2010
7/1/2010
6/1/2010

180

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
2382
2371
2361
2344
2345
2379
2378
2340
2341
2225

Motor Vehicle Driver II
Motor Vehicle Driver (Road Repairman)
Plasterer
Steamfitter
Steamfitter Foreman
Telecommunications Electrician
Telecommunications Electrician Foreman
Tinsmith
Tinsmith Foreman
Ventilating Inspector

$34.50
$33.85
$43.25
$43.15
$46.15
$40.40
$43.00
$40.56
$43.80
$43.80

6/1/2010
6/1/2010
7/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010

ACCOUNT 499-115 (PUBLIC SAFETY FUND)

Job Code

Job Classification

Hourly
Wage Rate

Effective
Date

2336
2335
2328
2346
2329
2324
2326
2320
2331
2339
2334
2381
2361
2343
2344
2345
2340
2341

Architectural Iron Worker
Architectural Iron Worker Foreman
Electrical Equipment Technician
Electrical Equipment Technician Foreman
Electrical Mechanic
Electrician
Electrician Foreman
Glazier
Machinist
Machinist Foreman
Master Locksmith
Motor Vehicle Driver I
Plasterer
Refrigerator Man
Steamfitter
Steamfitter Foreman
Tinsmith
Tinsmith Foreman

$40.20
$43.45
$40.40
$43.00
$40.40
$40.40
$43.00
$38.00
$43.16
$45.16
$40.20
$33.85
$43.25
$43.15
$43.15
$46.15
$40.56
$43.80

6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/7/2010
6/1/2010
7/1/2010
7/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
7/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010
6/1/2010

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that $148,040.00 from Account 490-115 and $12,634.00 from Account
499-115 be provided for these employees.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried.
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".

JUDICIARY
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from

181

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $96,638.00 from the Illinois Department of
Healthcare and Family Services (IDHFS), Division of Child Support Enforcement. This grant, made
available through IDHFS's Access and Visitation Program, is administered by the Office of the Chief
Judge to facilitate access to and visitation of children by their noncustodial parents. The funds are used to
provide mediation and conciliation services and parenting education to noncustodial parents who have
never been married to the custodial parents. The programs supported by this grant funding enhance
existing services provided by the court's Office of Marriage and Family Counseling Services.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on July 21, 2009, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners also in the amount of $96,638.00.
The grant does not require a cash match, but additional funds are needed to support the program.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $36,813.00 (FY2010 - $15,338.00; and FY2011 - $21,475.00). (310-818
Account). Grant Award: $96,638.00. Funding period: July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the request of the Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court of Cook County be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 24, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $35,000.00 from and to the
accounts listed below, for the purchase of stenographic paper and the repair and replacement of office
equipment.
Reason:

The office supplies account for the judiciary, budgeted at $94,020.00, is primarily used for
the purchase of specialized stenographic paper for court reporters' stenograph machines. The
budget was developed based upon a case price of $43.65. However, in 2010 the price
substantially and unexpectedly increased by 33 percent to $58 per case. As such, the
department requests an additional $30,000.00 for the account. The maintenance account for
the Office of the Chief Judge, with a budget of $17,600.00 is used for mail machines, water
coolers, fax machines and other minor equipment such as typewriters. An additional
$5,000.00 is requested based upon current expenditure trends.

From Accounts:
310-267

Juror or Election Judges Fees
Total

$35,000.00
$35,000.00

To Accounts:
300-350

Office Supplies

$30,000.00

182

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
310-440

Maintenance and Repair of Office Equipment
Total

1.

5,000.00
$35,000.00

On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
On or about June 1, 2010 in conjunction with our monthly budget review process, it became
apparent that additional funds would be necessary for expected purchases. On that date the
unencumbered balances in account 300-350 and 310-440 were $36,995.00 and $8,895.00,
respectively. One month earlier, on May 1, 2010, the unencumbered balances in account 300-350
and 310-440 were $38,332.00 and $9,728.00, respectively.

2.

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The court's jury fees account is proposed based upon expenditures to date, which are less than
expected. For the six (6) months ended May 31, 2010, jury fee payments total $1,581,299.00, or
about 10 percent less than target. As such, the account is available for modest transfers. No other
accounts were considered.

3.

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from 310-267.
None.

4.

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
The jury fees account budget of $3,500,000.00 was conservatively established based upon past
activity and current forecasts. In 2009, total jury fee payouts were $3,513,767.00. The budget has
been substantially reduced over the years from a high of $4,775,000.00 budgeted for 1997.
_________________________

Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the request of the Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court of Cook County be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

JUVENILE TEMPORARY DETENTION CENTER
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 20, 2010 from
EARL L. DUNLAP, Transitional Administrator, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for one (1) year, Contract No. 09-45-191 with
McMahon Food Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of fruit juice.
Reason:

This extension will enable our office to expend the remaining funds that were approved by the

183

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Cook County Board of Commissioners on September 16, 2009. Approximately $380,087.20
remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current contract was August 25, 2010.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: August 26, 2010 through August 25, 2011.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried.
Commissioner Gorman voted "present".
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".

COOK COUNTY LAW LIBRARY
AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication from
BENNIE E. MARTIN, Executive Law Librarian, Cook County Law Library
requesting that the Board of Commissioners approve, as amended Contract No. 10-41-77 with Innovative
Interfaces, Inc., Emeryville, California, to lease its Millennium system which was previously approved by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners Committee on Finance on March 25, 2010, and
subsequently approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on April 6, 2010.
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.

305673

Transmitting a Communication from
BENNIE E. MARTIN, Executive Law Librarian, Cook County Law Library
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
Innovative Interfaces, Inc., Emeryville, California, to lease its Millennium
system, an automated integrated library management system, and for services
from the company associated with installation of the system, including project
management, software configuration, training, implementation, consulting, data
loading and maintenance services.
Reason: The Millennium system will replace the existing system, which was
installed in 1992, and is no longer supported by its vendor, and is
inadequate for the Library's needs. The new system will integrate the
library's processes for acquisition, check-in, cataloging, and payment
of library materials, not all of which are currently automated. It will
also produce a web-based, online public access catalog of the library's
holdings.
Innovative Interfaces, Inc. was selected through a Request for Proposal
(RFP) process per County requirements. This vendor can fulfill the
specialized automation requirements of a large county law library,

184

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
migrate the bibliographic data for this large collection from the current
system to theirs, and grow with the changes in the legal publishing and
legal research worlds to continue to meet the needs of the Cook County
Law Library and its patrons. Innovative Interfaces, Inc. has worked
with other county law libraries.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $335,904.00 (FY 2010 - $112,730.00 65,746.00; FY
2011 - $70,476.00; FY 2012 - $70,476.00; FY 2013 - $70,476.00; and FY 2014 $11,746.00 $58,730.00). Contract period: May 1, 2010 October 1, 2010 through
April 30, 2015 September 30, 2014. (530-579 Account). Requisition No.
05300001.
Sufficient funds are available through the Cook County Law Library Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the
technical aspect of this recommendation.
_________________________
Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to enter into the requested contract, as amended. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
NANCY L. JONES, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner, Office of the Medical Examiner
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $20,000.00 $20,500.00
from and to the accounts listed below.
Reason:

More pathologists are receiving training compared to previous years, so we need to cover
their staff training expenses. Due to an increase in investigators and the caseload, the costs
for travel have also increased. This year, there has been an increase in the number of cases
that have not arrived in the office within 4 days, therefore requiring ambulance services. This
year, we have seen an increase in the number of deliveries for the office. Given the need for
maintenance and repairs to the aging fleet of vehicles, there have been a number of costs
associated with the Medical Examiner vehicles.

From Accounts:
259-222

Laundry and Linen Services
Total

$20,500.00
$20,500.00

To Accounts:
259-186

Training Programs for Staff Personnel

185

$ 3,000.00

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
259-190
259-213
259-215
259-228
259-444

1.

Transportation and Other Travel Expenses for Employees
Ambulance and Patient Transportation Service
Scavenger Services
Delivery Services
Maintenance and Repair of Automotive Equipment
Total

5,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
1,500.00
5,000.00
$20,500.00

On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What waste balance in the account on that date, and what was
the balance 30 days prior to that date?
Monday, July 12, 2010, is when it became apparent that the Training Program Staff Personnel
account would require an infusion of funds since its balance was $2,420.00. The balance on the
account on June 2, 2010 was $2,948.00.
Wednesday, August 4, 2010, is when it became apparent that Transportation and Other Travel
Expenses for Employees (Bus. Unit: 2590889) account would require an infusion of funds since its
balance was $223.00. The balance on the account on July 12, 2010 was $691.00.

Wednesday, August 4, 2010, is when it became apparent that the Ambulance and Patient
Transportation Service account would require an infusion of funds since its balance was $475.00.
The balance on the account on July 12, 2010 was $475.00.
Wednesday, August 4, 2010, is when it became apparent that the Scavenger Services account would
require an infusion of funds since its balance was $1,330.00. The balance on the account on July
12, 2010 was $3,593.00.
Wednesday, August 4, 2010, is when it became apparent that the Delivery Services account would
require an infusion of funds since its balance was $15.00. The balance on the account on July 12,
2010 was $792.00.
Wednesday, June 2, 2010, is when it became apparent that the Maintenance and Repair of
Automotive Equipment account would require an infusion of funds since its balance was $1,737.00.
The balance on the account on May 17, 2010 was $2,012.00.
2.

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
For all transfers, the account used for the source of the transferred funds was identified based on an
account balance over $30,000.00 where the portion of that account’s budget that was already spent
was approximately 50% or less. Therefore, close to half of the budget remained at the end of the
3rd quarter of the fiscal year. Additionally, future costs were taken into consideration.
Based on a financial analysis of each account to determine if sufficient funds are available for the
remainder of the year, it was determined that Account 222 has a surplus balance due to an
overestimate in expenditures on a pending contract at the time of budget preparation.

186

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
3.

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
There should not be any delays, cancellations, etc., in the account that funds will be transferred
from.

4.

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
The amount in this account was originally budgeted due to an approved purchasing contract that
was in progress; the problems that we were having with the vendor had not been resolved.
Therefore, we were preparing for the possibility of using 2010 budgetary funds to draft a new
contract.
_________________________

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the request of the Chief Medical
Examiner of the Office of the Medical Examiner be approved, as amended. The motion carried
unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF OFFICE TECHNOLOGY
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 21, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Zephyr Development
Corporation, Houston, Texas, for a five (5) year maintenance and software contract. The software
includes Passport PC to Host, Passport Web to Host and Passport Host Integration Objects. This contract
will allow for those employees who have personal computers workstations to connect to the Management
Information Systems (MIS) mainframe to access mainframe applications.
Reason:

The software and maintenance are only available through the manufacturer, Zephyr
Development Corporation. The software and maintenance support will allow County
employees to connect to the Management Information System (MIS) mainframe to access the
mainframe applications.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $300,000.00 ($60,000.00 per year). Contract period: September 1, 2010
through August 31, 2015. (023-441 Account). Requisition No. 00230009.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 funds.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Finance. (Comm. No. 308439). The motion carried unanimously.

187

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Warehouse Direct,
Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of office supplies countywide.
Reason:

After completion of the Request for Proposal (RFP) process Warehouse Direct was the lowest
bidder meeting all specifications and the requirements of the Minority and Women Business
Enterprise Ordinance. Warehouse Direct offered a 0.54% 54.0% deepest average discount off
its catalog price with the least number of substitutions.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,373,256.50. Contract period: August 28, 2010 through August 27, 2012.
(Various departments-350 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 funds.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________

Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the request of the Purchasing
Agent be approved, as amended and that the County Purchasing Agent be authorized to enter into the
requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
BID OPENING
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
submitting for your consideration, bids which were opened under Commissioner Murphy's supervision on
Wednesday, August 11, 2010 at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago, Illinois.
_________________________
approved
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
transmitting contracts and bonds executed by the contractors for approval and execution.
_________________________

188

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

approved

REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO LEASE
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
respectfully requesting approval of a first amendment to lease for space located at 1120 East 89th Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The leased premises is being used and occupied by the Clerk of the Circuit Court as a
temporary and ancillary storage facility.
Storage space at the County’s Hawthorne Warehouse, located at 4545 West Cermak is not yet available
for use by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. They will need to remain at the 1120 East 89th Street location
until the space is ready for occupancy. Details are:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Using Agency:
Location:
Term:

89th Street Partners, LLC
County of Cook
Clerk of the Circuit Court
1120 East 89th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60610
January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012

Rent
Monthly:
Annual:
Space Occupied:
Cost/Square Foot:

$ 36,987.30
$443,847.60
75,600 square feet
$5.87

Termination: Anytime after twelve months with a sixty (60)-day prior written notice.
Approval is recommended.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Real Estate Management Division be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".
SECOND AMENDMENT TO LICENSE
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division

189

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
respectfully requesting approval of a Second Amendment to License by and between the County of Cook
as (“Landlord”) and T.A.S.C., Inc. as (”Tenant”) for space located at the Second District Court Building,
5600 Old Orchard Road, Skokie, Illinois.
T.A.S.C., Inc. (Treatment Alternative to Street Crimes) will continue to utilize the space to monitor DUI
and drug cases and offer support to individuals who have not only been impacted or affected by drugs, but
also to offer recovery support services as a continual service in helping clients become whole individuals
when returning to the community. The organization does not charge the individual participants a fee for
its services. However, the County appropriates $702,033.00 to fund the drug school (250-260 Account).
Details are:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Location:
Term:
Termination:
Space Occupied:

County of Cook
T.A.S.C., Inc.
5600 Old Orchard Road, Skokie, Illinois
July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2013
30 days written notice by either party
175 square feet

Rent
Monthly:
Annual:

$530.00
$6,360.00

Approval is recommended.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Real Estate Management Division be approved. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
respectfully requesting approval of a Second Amendment to License by and between the County of Cook
as (“Landlord”) and T.A.S.C., Inc. as (”Tenant”) for space located at the Criminal Court Building, 2600
South California Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.
T.A.S.C., Inc. (Treatment Alternative to Street Crimes) will continue to utilize the space to monitor DUI
and drug cases and offer support to individuals who have not only been impacted or affected by drugs, but
also to offer recovery support services as a continual service in helping clients become whole individuals
when returning to the community. The organization does not charge the individual participants a fee for
its services. However, the County appropriates $702,033.00 to fund the drug school (250-260 Account).
Details are:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Location:
Term:
Termination:

County of Cook
T.A.S.C., Inc.
2600 South California Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2013
30 days written notice by either party

190

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Space Occupied:

400 square feet

Rent
Monthly:
Annual:

$690.00
$8,280.00

Approval is recommended.
_________________________
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the request of the Director of the
Real Estate Management Division be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF DEEDS
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Transmitting a Communication from
EUGENE "GENE" MOORE, Recorder of Deeds
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with ACS 20/20 Government
Records Management, Dallas, Texas, for ACS Perfect Vision System database application that is
designed to complete records management needs for the Recorder of Deeds office.
Reason:

ACS 20/20 Perfect Vision System is designed to maintain the database and control workflow
between the Cashiering and the Real Estate Indexing database to ensure that functional
processing is complete as needed in sequential steps or in parallel with other functions.
The un-verified documents will be sent to the Recorder of Deeds Real Estate Indexing
Department for Foreclosures Document Number approval.
The Cashiering System will create an electronic certified copy document. The ACS 20/20
Perfect Vision will interface with the City of Chicago EZ DEC. ACS 20/20 Perfect Vision
System will upgrade internet technology and the Recorder of Deeds web site.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $87,200.00. Contract period: September 1, 2010 through August 31, 2011.
(527-260 Account). Requisition No. 05270021.
Sufficient funds are available in the County Recorder Document Storage System Fund.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the technical aspect of this
recommendation.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to enter into the requested contract. The motion carried.

191

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".

COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
ZAHRA ALI, Director, Department of Revenue
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to amend and extend for six (6) months, Contract No.
05-43-628 with Linebarger Goggan Blair & Sampson, LLP ("Linebarger Goggan"), Chicago, Illinois, for
collection services for various Cook County Agencies.

Reason:

Linebarger Goggan's contract which was originally approved by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on September 8, 2005 and renewed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on June 19, 2007 and July 21, 2009, expires on September 18, 2010. This
extension would allow the Department of Revenue to complete its County-Wide Debt
Collections Request for Proposal (RFP) that has been developed with the assistance of
representatives of the Revenue Department, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Bureau of
Administration, Office of the President, Office of the State's Attorney, Sheriff’s Office,
County Clerk and the Cook County Health & Hospitals System. The extension will provide
time for receipt and evaluation of response proposals as well as time to recommend and
receive approval to negotiate and execute a contract with a qualified vendor or vendors.
The contract will continue to allow Linebarger Goggan to pursue collection matters referred
to it in writing by any County Agency, which would include the Cook County Health &
Hospitals System, the Offices of the Separately Elected Officials and Departments under the
jurisdiction of the Cook County Board President; however, the contract shall be amended to
reflect (1) "collection services for Cook County" instead of "collection services for the Office
of the President;" (2) allow the Department of Revenue and the Office of the State's Attorney
to manage said contract; and (3) require Linebarger Goggan to seek appointment as a Special
Assistant State's Attorney prior to sending out a collection letter or referencing the possibility
of legal action.
Neither the contract amendment or extension prevents the County or Cook County Board
from exercising an earlier termination period nor does it prevent the County from engaging in
services for collection services with any other agency or agencies. The expiration date of the
current contract is September 18, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contingency Fee Basis 25%. Contract extension: September 19, 2010
through March 18, 2011.
_________________________
Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Peraica voted "no".

192

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 27, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $34,776.00 from the Illinois Department of
Human Services (IDHS) through its Partner Abuse Intervention Services Program. Grant funds will be
used to provide court-ordered counseling services for domestic violence offenders.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on October 20, 2009 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $37,800.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $34,776.00. Funding period: July 1, 2010 through June
30, 2011.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved that the request of the Chief Judge of
the Circuit Court of Cook County be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PROPOSED GRANT AWARDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 3, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
MICHELE V. LATZ, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to accept a grant in the amount of $115,000.00 from the University of Illinois at
Chicago. This grant will provide funding to the State’s Attorney’s Office to create one (1) Assistant
State’s Attorney position dedicated to the Gang Crimes Unit within the Special Prosecutions Bureau.
This new program will implement a strategic initiative designed to aggressively prosecute street gang
members who possess and use firearms. This grant-funded Assistant State’s Attorney will be dedicated to
targeting and prosecuting individuals out of the Gang Crimes Unit who purchase, possess, sell, distribute
or use illegal firearms in accordance with the Comprehensive Anti-Gang Initiative. In addition to
prosecuting violent offenses in which a firearm was used, this grant-funded prosecutor will also target
cases of unlawful sale or delivery of firearms, gunrunning, and defacing identification marks of firearms
in an effort to reduce the flow of firearms into the hands of criminals.
There is no match requirement for this grant.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $115,000.00. Funding Period: August 1, 2010 through
August 31, 2011.

193

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Chief of the
Administrative Services Bureau of the State's Attorney's Office be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
MICHELE V. LATZ, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to accept a grant in the amount of $299,999.00 from the U.S. Department of
Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Cook County Internet Crimes
Against Children-Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (ICAC-CSEC) Program. This award will
allow the office to dedicate one (1) CSEC Outreach Coordinator to facilitate and coordinate the response
throughout the office to victims of CSEC. In addition, the program will allow the office to enter into
contracts with three (3) community service providers (PROMISE Program, Salvation Army’s STOP-IT
Initiative and the Center on Halsted) to provide CSEC Training to agencies throughout the community
and provide direct services, support and resources to the juvenile victims of sexual exploitation.
This grant does not require a match contribution. Requesting authorization to enter into a subcontract
with the following vendors associated with this grant award:

VENDOR

REQ. NO.

CONTRACT
AMOUNT

The PROMISE Program of the Salvation Army
Chicago, Illinois

06231626

$69,400.00

Salvation Army Family and Community Services
STOP-IT Initiative
Chicago, Illinois

06231627

$42,583.00

Center on Halsted
Chicago, Illinois

06231628

$40,328.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $299,999.00. Funding period: September 1, 2010
through August 31, 2011.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________

194

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Chief of the
Administrative Services Bureau of the State's Attorney's Office be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD ADDENDA
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
MICHELE V. LATZ, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to accept a supplemental grant award in the amount of $296,897.00 and a
program extension from July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2011 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Cook County Internet Crimes Against Children
(ICAC) Task Force Program. This increase and extension will allow the Office to continue to dedicate
one administrative assistant to support the work of the Task Force, one Assistant State’s Attorney to focus
on ICAC cases, as well as continue to provide funding to equip and train the Cook County ICAC Task
Force partner agencies in an effort to aggressively identify, investigate and prosecute persons who use the
Internet to sexually exploit children as well as prevent such exploitation through community outreach and
education. The Cook County ICAC Task Force partners include representatives of the State’s Attorney’s
Office, the Chicago Police Department and law enforcement agencies from throughout Cook County.
Task Force partners from local law enforcement agencies concentrate their investigative efforts in the
City of Chicago and the entire outlying suburban Cook County area. This grant does not require a match
contribution.
The authorization to accept the original grant award was given on December 3, 2008 by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in the amount of $300,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Supplemental Grant Award: $296,897.00. Funding period extension:
July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Chief of the
Administrative Services Bureau of the State's Attorney's Office be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 13, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
MICHELE V. LATZ, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to accept a supplement grant award in the amount of $5,000.00 and a extend
from March 1, 2010 through April 16, 2010 from the University of Illinois at Chicago for the Cook

195

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
County State’s Attorney’s Project Safe Neighborhoods Program. This extension will enable the office to
expend the entire award amount as well as accomplish all of the program goals and objectives.
These Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) funds will enable the State’s Attorney’s Office to maintain one
(1) Assistant State’s Attorney dedicated to the Gang Crimes Unit within the Special Prosecutions Bureau.
In accordance with the Project Safe Neighborhoods mission, this Assistant State’s Attorney will be
dedicated to the investigation and prosecution of individuals who purchase, possess, sell, distribute or use
illegal firearms. In addition to prosecuting violent offenses in which a firearm was used, this prosecutor
will also target cases of unlawful sale or delivery of firearms, gunrunning, and defacing identification
marks of firearms in an effort to reduce the flow of firearms into the hands of criminals.
This grant does not require a match contribution.
The authorization to accept the original award was given on March 16, 2010 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $53,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Supplemental Grant Award: $5,000.00. Funding period extension:
March 1, 2010 through April 16, 2010.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Chief of the
Administrative Services Bureau of the State's Attorney's Office be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 13, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
by
MICHELE V. LATZ, Chief of the Administrative Services Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $50,979.00 from the University of Illinois at
Chicago. These Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) funds will enable the State’s Attorney’s Office to
maintain one (1) Assistant State’s Attorney dedicated to the Gang Crimes Unit within the Special
Prosecutions Bureau. In accordance with the Project Safe Neighborhoods mission, this Assistant State’s
Attorney will be dedicated to the investigation and prosecution of individuals who purchase, possess, sell,
distribute or use illegal firearms. In addition to prosecuting violent offenses in which a firearm was used,
this prosecutor will also target cases of unlawful sale or delivery of firearms, gunrunning, and defacing
identification marks of firearms in an effort to reduce the flow of firearms into the hands of criminals.
There is no match requirement for this grant.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on March 16, 2010 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $53,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $50,979.00. Funding Period: April 17, 2010 through
September 30, 2010.

196

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Chief of the
Administrative Services Bureau of the State's Attorney's Office be approved. The motion carried
unanimously.
RECONSIDERATION OF A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SETTLEMENT AND
AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 19, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, State’s Attorney of Cook County
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
requesting that the Cook County Board of Commissioners reconsider and approve as amended the
following proposed settlement (Comm. No. 307832) which was approved at the July 27, 2010 meeting of
the Finance Committee. The amount of the total settlement remains the same. Per a court order by Judge
Ruben Castillo an amendment is being requested to modify the payee on the first check.
The amendment is indicated by the stricken and double-underscored language.
307832

STATE'S ATTORNEY, Anita Alvarez, submitting communication advising the County
of a judgment in the amount of $5,174,310.00 regarding Marlita Thomas as
Administrator of the Estate of Norman L. Smith, Jr., deceased v. County of Cook, Case
No. 04-C-3563, Appeal No. 08-2232. Payment of this judgment was approved by the
Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Litigation at its meeting of July 14, 2010 recessed
and reconvened on July 21, 2010.
State's Attorney recommends payment of
$5,174,310.00, made payable in two (2) separate checks as follows:

1.

the first check in the amount of $5,035,843.72 payable to “Marlita Thomas, Administrator of the
Estate of mother, next friend, and special administrator of Norman L. Smith, Jr., deceased and her
attorneys Christopher R. Smith and Daniel S. Alexander”; and

2.

the second check in the amount of $138,466.28 payable to the “United States of America”.

By Court Order, the payment must be received no later than September 2, 2010.
Please forward the check to Andrew J. Creighton, Assistant State’s Attorney, for transmittal.
_________________________

In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-108(2)(1) Amendment or Suspension of Rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to suspend Section 2108(g)(1) order of business. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted, as amended. The motion carried unanimously.

197

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

Commissioner Peraica voted "no".

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State's Attorney
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. John McQuinn v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 10-CV-1770
#308444
2. Carlos Quinones v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 09-CV-240
#308445
3. Torrie Cooper v. County of Cook, Case No. 10-L-4600
#308446
4. Annette Davis v. Stroger & Provident Hospitals, Case No. 10-L-3847
#308447
5. Cynthia Walker v. Cook County, Case No. 2008-E-017

#308448
6.

Hemphill v. County of Cook, et al., Case No.09-CV-03410

#308449
7. Hemphill v. Skinner, et al., Case No. 08-CV-00902

#308450
8. Hemphill v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 08-CV-00157
#308451

198

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication(s) be
referred to the Committee on Finance Litigation Subcommittee. The motion carried unanimously.

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of Tele Atlas
MultiNet North America with coverage for three (3) Illinois counties, including license, geocode and
route shape file format.
Contract period: December 1, 2010 through November 30, 2012. (545-260 Account). Requisition No.
15450001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2011 and 2012 funds.
Sufficient funds are available in the Geographical Information System Fund.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDA
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for two (2) months, Contract No. 09-41-327
with LimnoTech, Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan, to collect and map bathymetric data for Cook County.
Reason:

Due to the early, warm spring season, extensive vegetation growth at the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County (FPDCC) lakes has resulted in adverse conditions to acquiring and
processing water depth data. In order to meet the quality standards dedicated by the
Department of Geographic Information System (GIS), additional time is needed to process the
data, produce the contour maps and datasets for each lake. Approximately $31,000.00
remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current contract is October 31, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: November 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________

199

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to extend the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
* * * * *
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 20, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $1,200,000.00 and extend for seven (7)
months, Contract No. 08-41-247 with Sentinel Technologies, Inc., Downers Grove, Illinois, for the
countywide computer hardware maintenance agreement. (See related Item #51).
Board approved amount 04-09-08:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$9,342,312.00
1,200,000.00
$10,542,312.00

The Bureau of Technology request the contract extension and increase to provide additional
time and resources while preparing a Request for Proposal (RFP) of the countywide computer
hardware maintenance. The expiration date of the current contract is January 31, 2011.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,200,000.00. Contract extension: February 1, 2011 through August 31,
2011. (009-441 Account).
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Finance (Comm. No. 308437). The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED CONTRACT RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 20, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to renew Contract No. 09-41-276 with Sentinel
Technologies, Inc., Downers Grove, Illinois, for Wide Area Network computer consulting services.
Reason:

This renewal will allow the county to maintain the countywide Wide Area Network (WAN)
computer consulting services, operations, administration, maintenance, provisioning and
support services.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,000,000.00. Contract period: September 1, 2010 through August 31, 2011.
(717-009/579 Account). Requisition No. 00090016.
This equipment was included in the 2009 Capital Equipment Program approved by the Board of
Commissioners on June 2, 2009. (Item #409).
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

200

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to renew the requested contract. The motion carried unanimously.
TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 21, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting approval by the Board of Commissioners to transfer funds totaling $1,200,000.00 from
Account 009-260, Professional and Managerial Services to Account 009-441, Maintenance and Repair of
Data Processing Equipment and Software for the extension of Contract No. 08-41-247. (See related Item
#49 ).
Reason:

Due to insufficient funds the first year of the contract, a shortage has occurred for the
remaining months of the contract period. The Bureau of Technology requires additional
funds to extend Contract No. 08-41-247 for seven months while preparing a Request for
Proposal (RFP) for these services.

From Account 009-260

Professional and Managerial Services

Total

$1,200,000.00

To Account 009-441

Maintenance and Repair of Data Processing
Equipment and Software

Total

$1,200,000.00

1.

On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
The Bureau of Technology became aware of the shortage of funds in the week of July 5-9, 2010.
The balance in the account on that date was $18,858.00. The balance 30 days prior was
$18,858.00.

2.

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The account identified as the source of the transfer has been identified due to Cook County being
denied the first round of the Broadband Stimulus Grant.

3.

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from 009-260 (Professional Services).
There are no projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction. The overage is due to Cook County being denied
the first round of the Broadband Stimulus Grant. These were the matching funds that were required
if chosen.

4.

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.

201

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

There were not unobligated funds in the account. Cook County was denied the first round for the
Broadband Stimulus Grant.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the communication be referred
to the Committee on Finance (Comm. No. 308438). The motion carried unanimously.

DEPARTMENT OF TELECOMMUNICATION OPERATIONS
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 9, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of
telecommunication equipment and supplies.
Contract period: December 4, 2010 through December 3, 2011. (016-333 Account). Requisition No.
10160001.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the County Purchasing Agent
be authorized to advertise for bids. The motion carried unanimously.
PROPOSED CONTRACT RENEWAL
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 10, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to renew Contract No. 09-41-121 with RedSky
Technologies, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of the latest version of the E911 Manager Software,
and the E-Services Directory, including implementation and maintenance services.
Reason:

RedSky Technologies, Inc. is the only authorized company and sole provider of the E911
Manager Software that has been deployed throughout Cook County to integrate the phone
system to automatically track, manage, and deliver life saving location identification
information. The software meets the Enhanced 911 (E911) legislation that requires the
County to be able to automatically pinpoint the exact location of a caller in a Cook County
facility. RedSky Technologies, Inc. is also the sole provider of the integrated E-Services
Directory. It provides the precise location of a 911 call to security personnel.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $250,000.00 (FY2011 - $125,000.00 and FY2012 - $125,000.00). Contract
period: January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012. (499-220 Account). Requisition No. 10160002.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 and 2012 funds.

202

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR SEPTEMBER 1, 2010

The Purchasing Agent concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
_________________________
Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved that the County Purchasing Agent be
authorized to renew the requested contract, as amended. The motion carried unanimously.

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER
GRADE 24 ADJUSTMENT
Transmitting a Communication, dated August 26, 2010 from
MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
In light of the recognition of the December 1, 2009 Resolution adopted by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners regarding the adjustment of any Grade 24 positions, I am seeking approval of the Board
to transfer employment of Joseph Fratto from the Office of the President to the Treasurer’s Office.
The available Grade 24 position is on the 534 Treasurer’s Automation account and will be funded from
110 Account salvage without creating any deficit in our approved FY 2010 appropriations. We are
requesting to increase this currently vacant position to $151,131. We would appreciate any consideration
you may provide to this request.
_________________________
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the request of the Cook County
Treasurer be approved. The motion carried unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the meeting do now adjourn to
meet again at the same time and same place on September 15, 2010, in accordance with County Board
Resolution 10-R-20
The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

________________________
County Clerk

203

 