 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Criminal Justice Committee

Wednesday, September 9, 2015 10:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
Mm
Present: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer,

Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent: Suffredin (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2. Mark Walsh, Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence, Campaign Director

LETTERS
Chairman Garcia asked for the following letters to be entered into record:

Westside Black Elected Of?cials dated 9/1 to President Preckwinkle
Unity Temple, Oak Park, Rev Allen C. Taylor

Habilitative Systems, Donald Dew, President

Park Manor Christian Church, Rev. Dr. William Crowder Jr.

New Hope Christian Church, Rev. James Hunt

Faith Community of St. Sabina, Father Michael P?eger

Stone Temple Baptist Church, Bishop Derrick Fitzpatrick

Young and Powerful Group, Wendell Moseby and Marcel Jackson Co-Chairs
Victory Apostolic Church

10. Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence

11. Lurie Children?s Hospital



15-5212
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/29/2015

Page 1 of 7

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski(16)

Absent: Suffredin(1)

15-4648
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN and JOHN A. FRITCHEY

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

APPOINTING A COOK COUNTY GUN VIOLENCE CZAR AND ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY
GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE

WHEREAS, the past seven months have seen dramatically escalating levels of gun violence in Cook County,
especially in the County seat of Chicago; and

WHEREAS, in that time, more than 1,500 people in the City of Chicago have been victims of shootings; and
WHEREAS, more than 2,600 have been victims of shootings in the City of Chicago since January 1, 2014; and

WHEREAS, the past seven months have seen a major rise in shootings on Chicago area expressways, with the
Illinois State Police reporting at least 20 expressway shootings since the start of the 2015, including the most
recent such expressway shooting which took place on the Eisenhower Expressway on July 20, 2015 and resulted
in the partial shutdown of the Eisenhower Expressway; and

WHEREAS, 19 Chicago area expressway shootings occurred in all of 2014; and

WHEREAS, 16 Chicago area expressway shootings occurred on Chicago area expressways in all of 2013; and

WHEREAS, in 2015, year to date, 259 people have died in the City of Chicago of as a result of gunshot
wounds; and

WHEREAS, of those 259, roughly 10% were under the age of 18, and 56% were under 26; and

WHEREAS, of those who died in 2014 as a result of gunshot wounds, 14% were under the age of 18, and 59%
were under 26; and

WHEREAS, of those who died in 2013 as a result of gunshot wounds, 12% were under the age of 18, and 54%
were under 26; and

WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2015 have been African American. Speci?cally,
in 2015, year to date, there have been 259 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 207 of those deaths were African
American; and

WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2014 were African American. Speci?cally, in
2014, there were 455 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 363 of those deaths were African American; and

WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Page 2 of 7

Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2013 were African American. Speci?cally, in
2013, there were 425 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 345 of those deaths were African American; and

WHEREAS, the University of Chicago Crime Lab estimated that gun violence in the City of Chicago costs the
taxpayers $2.5 billion each year; and

WHEREAS, the economic burden of that $2.5 billion cost of gun violence translates to $2,500 per household;
and

WHEREAS, a joint report by Ted Miller of the Paci?c Institute for Research and Evaluation and Mother Jones
Magazine contains ?ndings that gun violence across the country costs the United States $229 billion each year;
and

WHEREAS, that same joint report contains ?ndings that gun violence in Illinois costs the state $9.6 billion each
year, or about $750 per person; and

WHEREAS, Cook County government has an obligation to take action to protect its residents and taxpayers
from gun violence and the resulting cost and trauma to the County; and

WHEREAS, Cook County government, like all units of government, has an obligation to its residents and
taxpayers to do everything possible to preserve life, reduce instances of gun violence and minimize the harmful

effects that follow acts of gun violence;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that the President of Cook County and the Board of Commissioners
hereby appoint a Cook County Gun Violence Czar and establish a Cook County Gun Violence Task Force; and,

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14 Community
Development, Article Gun Violence Czar and Gun Violence Task Force, Sec. 14-80 through Sec. 14-89 is
hereby enacted as follows:

CHAPTER 14- COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

ARTICLE GUN VIOLENCE CZAR AND GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE

Sec. 14-80. Short title.

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gun Violence Czar and Gun Violence Task Force
Act.

See. 14-81. De?nitions.

The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where otherwise
speci?cally indicated:

Board of Commissioners or County Board means the Board of Commissioners for Cook County, Illinois.
Member means appointed members of the Gun Violence Task Force.

County means ?Cook County, Illinois.?

Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.

Czar means the Gun Violence Czar.

Page 3 of7

Ordinance means this ordinance appointing a Gun Violence Czar and establishing the Gun Violence

Task Force.

President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

Report means the Cook County Gun Violence Report.

State means State of Illinois.

Task Force means the Gun Violence Task Force.

Sec. 14-82. Purpose.

(3)



(C)

The purpose of this Ordinance is to appoint a Gun Violence Czar and create the Gun Violence Task
Force, which will serve as an investigative and fact-?nding body with the objective of
recommending a set of policies to the President and County Board designed to reduce gun violence
in Cook County over a period of six months.

The Task Force will hold public hearings chaired by the Gun Violence Czar to gather testimony and
data about the economic, social, and cultural causes of gun violence in Cook County and the best
methodology for reducing gun violence. The hearings shall take place over a period of time not to
exceed six months and shall culminate in a written set of policy recommendations put forth under
the authorship of the Gun Violence Czar and designed to reduce gun violence in Cook County
effective January 1, 2016.

Such hearings shall be held in the Cook County Board Room on the 5th Floor of the Cook County
building at 118 North Clark Street in Chicago, Illinois, and the Gun Violence Czar and Task Force
shall have full access to resources necessary to conduct said hearings and make a record of said
hearings.

Sec. 14?83. Compliance with law.

As an investigative and fact-?nding body empowered by the President and County Board, the Gun
Violence Czar and Task Force shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations, and

orders.

Sec. 14-84. Task Force Membership.



The Task Force shall consist of 9 members:

(1) One member designated as the Gun Violence Czar. The Czar shall be appointed by the
President, subject to approval by the County Board. The Czar shall serve as the of?cial
liaison between the Task Force and local, state, and federal of?cials, and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners. The Czar shall have the power to convene public meetings of the
Task Force.

(2) One Cook County Commissioner serving as an Ex?Of?cio Member of the Commission with
voting rights. The Ex?Of?cio Member selected from the Board of Commissioners shall be
the same Commissioner tasked with chairing the Cook County Board of Commissioners?
Committee on Human Relations.

(3) One additional member appointed by the President.

Page 4 of 7

(4) Two members appointed by the Cook County State?s Attorney.
(5) Two members appointed by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
(6) Two members appointed by the Cook County Sheriff.

14-85. Term of Of?ce.

Unless otherwise provided or revised, the members of the Gun Violence Task Force shall be appointed
for a term of six months, subject to the approval of, and extension by the County Board.

14-86. Quorum Requirement, Absenteeism, Administration.
A quorum shall be necessary in order to conduct all hearings of the Task Force.
14-87. Expert Testimony.

The primary method of investigation by the Task Force shall be the solicitation, hearing, recording
and transcription of expert testimony. Such expert testimony shall include but not be limited to the
following categories of professionals:

(1) Law Enforcement
(2) Physicians and Nurse Practitioners
(3) Medical Examiners
(4) Government Of?cials
(S) Experts in and 
(6) Social Scientists with expertise in any of the following areas:
a. Economics
b. Criminal Justice
c. Con?ict Management and Resolution
(7) Faith and Community Leaders
14-88. Cook County Gun Violence Report.
Having concluded all hearings and investigatory functions, the Gun Violence Czar shall compile the
testimony collected by the Task Force, and based on the information furnished through such testimony, shall
author and tender 21 Cook County Gun Violence Report. The length of time between the ?rst hearing and the
completion of the Report shall not exceed six months. The Report will contain an overview of factors
contributing to gun violence in Cook County, the effects of gun violence on victims and community members,
and a set of policy recommendations designed to reduce gun violence and the harmful effects associated with
gun Violence. The Report shall be furnished to the President, the Board of Commissioners, and all countywide

elected and appointed of?cials. Once the Report is furnished to the aforesaid of?cials, the Task Force shall

Page 5 of 7

convene to review the totality of its proceedings to date and determine the steps necessary in order to implement
the policy recommendations set forth in the Report.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

This Ordinance was withdrawn

15-4728
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

CALLING UPON THE JUSTICE ADVISORY COUNCIL AND THE DEPARTMENT OF
PROCUREMENT TO REPORT TO THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMNIISSIONERS ON THE
SCORING CRITERIA FOR ITS VIOLENCE PREVENTION GRANT AWARDS AND THE ROLE
PLAYED BY COMMUNITY VIOLENCE LEVELS IN DETERMINING VIOLENCE PREVENTION
GRANT RECIPIENTS

WHEREAS, on July 1, 2015, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved the award of $800,000.00 in
violence prevention grants under a process overseen by the Justice Advisory Council of Cook County; and,

WHEREAS, of the $800,000.00 in violence prevention grant funds awarded on July 1, 2015, no such funds
were awarded to organizations doing the work of violence prevention in the Chicago neighborhoods of Austin,
East Gar?eld Park, West Gar?eld Park, and North Lawndale; and,

WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of Austin leads all 77 Chicago neighborhoods in homicides, has the
11th highest Violent crime rate in Chicago, and has an unemployment rate of 21%, with 27% of its households
living below the poverty level; and,

WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of East Gar?eld Park has the 4th highest violent crime rate in Chicago,
and has an unemployment rate of 16.4% with 39.7% of households living below the poverty level; and,

WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of West Gar?eld has the 2nd highest violent crime rate in Chicago, and
has an unemployment rate of 25.2%, with 40.3% of households living below the poverty level; and,

WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of North Lawndale has the 3rd highest violent crime rate in Chicago
and has an unemployment rate of 18.5%, with 38.6% of households living below the poverty level; and,

WHEREAS, Cook County, in its administration of the Justice Advisory Council Violence Prevention Grant
Program has directly undertaken an effort to address the issue of neighborhood violence that has decimated poor
communities of color in Chicago and Cook County; and,

WHEREAS, the fundamental objective of the Justice Advisory Council Violence Prevention Grant Program is
to help prevent Violence; and,

WHEREAS, the cornerstone of a program designed to help prevent violence is to drive resources to the areas
where the highest levels of violence exist;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
request that the Justice Advisory Council and the Department of Procurement report to the Cook County Board
of Commissioners on the speci?c scoring criteria for its violence prevention grant awards; and,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Justice Advisory Council and the Department of Procurement

Page 6 of 7

speci?cally address in the aforementioned report the role played by community violence levels in determining
violence prevention grant recipients.

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that this Resolution
be motion to accept. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, ritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski(l6)

Absent: Suffredin(1)



A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, to adjourn the meeting.

Respectfully submitted,

5.2a.


rman Secretary

 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 7 of 7

