Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, June 9, 2015

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the
meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.

15-0397
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/14/2015

 15-0201
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to the Village of Oak Lawn and other Municipal Customers of the Oak Lawn
Regional Water System, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a water transmission main in the Tinley
Creek Preserves. Permission is now sought, upon satisfactory completion of all due diligence and
negotiation of any and all relevant provisions as determined by the Preserves’ legal department, to enter
into and execute the License. The request is for approximately 20,060 linear feet of new water main
ranging in size from 24-inch diameter to 60-inch diameter to serve 12 southwest suburban communities.
The communities are currently served by a single 40 year old 48-inch transmission main. The addition of
a new 60-inch water transmission line will provide a looped system to increase capacity and provide
redundancy in the event of a failure.
Impacts: The new pipeline will extend through the forest preserves for approximately 3.8 miles and
require a license area of almost 7 acres, but will be routed primarily within an existing disturbed corridor
occupied by a ComEd transmission line. Approximately 1.5 miles of paved trail will be directly impacted
by construction.
Fees and Benefits: In addition to the license fee, the Grantee will pay an impact fee for temporary
construction use of 35.6 acres, based on a daily proration of the license fee. Also, the Grantee will
rebuild the impacted trail and approximately 2 miles of adjacent trail in order to avoid patchwork trail
segments. The Grantee will also provide funding to reimburse the Forest Preserves for the ecologic
restoration of 500 acres in the Tinley Creek Preserves. Finally, the Grantee will also provide funding for
a construction management service to monitor construction for the FPCC. The current estimate of all fee
associated with the issuance of this License is $3,944,795 as indicated below. However, due to the
unique size and scope of this project these numbers may change based upon the length, size and duration
of the work being conducted by the Grantee.
Impact and License Fees:
Ecologic Restoration Fees:
Construction Management Fees:
Estimated Value of Trail Repairs

$ 557,295.00
$ 2,500,000.00
$ 200,000.00
$ 687,500.00

Term: Continuous
License Fee: $3,944,795.00, estimated total fees and other in-kind contribution for trail repairs,
subject to change, includes fees for License/Impact, YELAR, Management, Land Restoration, and Trail
Repair/Repaving.)
License Application Fee: $500.00 (prev. paid)
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of an amount to be determined will be for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Page 2 of 4

 Tree Mitigation Fee: To be determined
The area of the License is: 6.882 Acres
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 6 and 17
Legislative History: 5/19/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

15-0328
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to
grant a permanent easement to the Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways (CDOTH)
at Bemis Woods for 4.634 acres or 201,858 square feet.
Reason: On 8/24/1928 the Cook County Board directed the Superintendent of Highways to prepare
plans for the improvement and relocation of Wolf Road north of Ogden Avenue. Plans were prepared,
approved by the Cook County Board and by State Highways, and in 1929 construction began, however
there is no record of an easement grant for the road at its relocation. CDOTH is requesting the easement
grant to rectify the situation and formally recognize the easement for public road at its current location.
The easement area is currently improved with a two to five lane roadway with median. The easement will
also allow for construction of a bike path connection proposed by the Village of Western Springs.
The area for the permanent easement is 4.634 acres. CDOTH indicates that no trees are expected to be
removed for this project.
Easement Fee: N/A
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Page 3 of 4

 District(s): 17
Legislative History: 5/19/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

_____________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Murphy
Vice Chairman: Gorman
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 