Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
December 19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Juan M. Calderon
Joseph B. Starshak
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Julie Morita, Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
December 19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:08 am by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The November 2018 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner, Julie Morita, provided the following updates:
HIV/STI: The 2018 HIV/STI Surveillance Report was released this month and there are reasons to celebrate. New
cases of HIV in Chicago are at record lows, with a 15-percent decrease in residents newly diagnosed with HIV in
2017 compared with 2016. We have made remarkable progress in reducing the number of new HIV diagnoses to
752 and linking 82% of those newly diagnosed with HIV in Chicago to medical care within one month of diagnosis.
In addition, Dave Kern, Deputy Commissioner of HIV/STI discussed the new HIV report at an all-day conference
hosted by IPHA on December 3rd. The conference explored innovative HIV and care strategies, traverses the
intersections of racism and injustice faced by communities most vulnerable to HIV, and debuts the draft plan for
Getting to Zero Illinois.
Reaccreditation Update: PHAB site visitors are currently reviewing our reaccreditation documentation. We
anticipate hearing back from them with questions in January or February 2019. At this point, CDPH will have 6
weeks to respond. Our Reaccreditation Team Leaders and Champions will prepare and upload any and all clarifying
documentation requested. The PHAB site visitors will then take a month to review this new documentation. Once
that second review is completed, the site visit will be scheduled.
Direct Investments: In 2018, CDPH released 30 Requests for Proposals (RFPs), providing $40M dollars directly to
community organizations to both improve health and increase their own capacity to develop the neighborhoods
they serve. The RFPs include a range of public health investments including primary care, HIV education and
treatment, lead prevention, breast health services, mental health services, violence prevention and our schoolbased health centers.
Good Food Purchasing: The City is implementing its Good Food Purchasing Program (GFPP) with the potential to
direct $200 million in existing procurement spending to healthier options and local businesses. In partnership with
the Chicago Food Policy Action Council, CDPH provided technical assistance to departments and sister agencies in
initiating baseline assessments of existing procurement practices and preliminary target settings; this work will
continue in 2019, along with developing a program evaluation to highlight Chicago’s leadership as one of the first
cities to adopt GFPP.
Office of Research: This year, CDPH established the first-ever Office of Research with support from UIC, the
University of Chicago and Northwestern. The new office serves as a liaison to the academic research institutions,
facilitating stronger partnerships and disseminating important health-related research findings to community
groups. Our new director has already been named co-chair of the Chicago Consortium for Community EngagedResearch and successfully aligned university seed grant selection criteria with Healthy Chicago 2.0 priority areas.
Healthy Chicago 2.0 accomplishments: Thanks to our investments in data collection and analysis, we can say with
confidence that Chicagoans’ health has improved. Significant improvements reported this year include:
•

Chicago’s teen birth rate has dropped again – to 24.6 births per 1,000, the lowest number since we started
tracking teen births. Since 2010, we have seen a decline across every ethnic group. Though our rate is still
higher than the national average, we are also closing that gap quickly, dropping 70 percent since 2000,
compared to a 57 percent drop nationwide.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
December 19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
•

Youth smoking rates hit another all-time low, following a series of laws passed to create Chicago’s first
tobacco-free generation. Cigarette smoking among Chicago teens dropped to 6% from 13.7% in 2011. In
addition, we saw a decrease in smoking among 18-20 year-olds immediately following the implementation of
our Tobacco 21 law.

We’ve also seen improvements across a number of indicators:
•
•
•
•
•

24% increase in HPV vaccination rates among females since 2014
Adult daily soda consumption down more than 10% since 2015
Reported bullying among LGBT high school students down 36% since 2013
Students served by school-based vision services up by 20% since 2015
Emergency room visits for asthma among African-American youth down 25% since 2011

We have convened more than 200 partners to identify ways we can improve upon our Healthy Chicago 2.0 efforts.
Even though we have seen positive trends in nearly every key area, we have seen the reverse in four key areas:
obesity, violence, infant mortality and opioid use. Recently, the Healthy Chicago 2.0 symposium focused on these
four health outcomes while addressing the impact of racism. In 2019, we will continue to convene key partners to
identify new strategies to both confront each of these challenges head on and the underlying conditions that lead
to these negative trends, including racism and discrimination.
Affordable Care Act: Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, more Chicagoans have health insurance than at any point
in our city’s history – helping ensure more people get access to the quality care they deserve. In fact, more than
90% of us now have health insurance. And our rate of uninsured has been cut in half since 2011. While this is good
news, as we know, the White House has announced efforts to undermine the law – including cutting funding to
Chicago non-profit groups working to enroll more people into care during Open Enrollment; the deadline was on
December 15th. CDPH partnered with delegate agencies, across CDPH clinics, worked with our community and
public engagement team and aldermen to inform Chicagoans on how to enroll. While we are still gathering the
most recent data, the last data are from Nov 1-Dec 8, with 134,041 enrolled in Illinois, we anticipate this number
going up once auto-enroll numbers are collected, historically it amounted to approximately 50% of the total
enrolled . For example, last year at this time, the number was 168,663; this does not include people who were
auto-enrolled, which amounted to approximately 84,330 more.
The Shriver Center explained that enrollment numbers may have been impacted due to:
•

•
•
•
•

Cutbacks in federal funding for advertising and outreach dollars at the community level. The Trump
administration’s decision to cut federal funding for Illinois navigators this year by 85 percent from 2016
spending levels, impacted organizations across Illinois that provided assistance to individuals and families
to better understand their health insurance options.
Kaiser Family Foundation recently published an ACA poll that showed that only about one-fourth of those
who buy their own insurance or are uninsured know about the current open enrollment deadline.
The repeal of the individual mandate penalty and the new proliferation of junk plans in the Marketplace.
So people might be sitting out this year or buying a short-term plan.
Possibly lower unemployment – so people are getting other coverage options – however in Illinois, we
saw our uninsured rate rise this year.
Fear in the immigrant community about the public charge issue.

Policy Team Staff Update. I want to inform the board and thank Angelica Alfaro for her service as the Manager of
Legislative Affairs and Board of Health Liaison. She will be missed and we are excited for her new as Chief of Staff
for Commissioner Marcelino Garcia at the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District. Her last day at CDPH is
effective, January 4th 2019. James Esparza, Executive Assistant for External Affairs Bureau will now serve as the
BOH liaison.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
December 19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez acknowledges the hard work Angelica Alfaro contributed to the
board and wishes her the best at her new position.
Policy Update: Jesse Lava, Director of Policy, provided the following updates:
• Health ordinance: In this month’s City Council meeting, several ordinances were introduced that CDPH
spearheaded or supports:
o Give the CDPH commissioner subpoena power for public health investigations, which we aim to
use in cases of communicable disease outbreaks and other situations where we need to quickly
track down people who have been exposed to a serious disease.
o Give CDPH authority to partner with non-CPS schools for our vision program. If we proceed with
a program expansion, we would work with schools with a large majority of students who receive
free or reduced-price lunch.
o Ensure contractors working in Streeterville and the former Michael Reese Hospital site take
appropriate precautions with radiation hazards, given factories that existed a century ago and
left thorium and other elements below the surface. Alderman Reilly and Alderman King
introduced the ordinance.
• Food rules:
o We have formally promulgated new rules on food trucks and shared kitchens, with changes
including prohibiting food trucks from dumping waste on the street and ensuring the
commissaries where they prepare their food have the necessary equipment for keeping
hazardous food at the right temperature.
o The public comment period has closed for our overall food code revision, so we plan to
promulgate in the coming days. The minor changes include requiring that restaurant managers
take an allergen awareness training.
•

Tobacco: The U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams has issued an e-cigarette advisory prompted by the
fast-rising rates of vaping among youth. The advisory alerts parents, teachers, and health professionals
about the dangers. This advisory follows the FDA’s announcement it will take action to restrict flavored
vape products, as well as a recent study suggesting that more than 20% of high school students currently
vape.

Comments from Board: Board members discussed negative impacts of the current ACA sabotage, reviewed the
facts surrounding the city lawsuit against 8 online purveyors for selling to minors and suggested that a map of
other radioactive areas in the city would be helpful to prevent negative health outcomes.
Presentation: “2018 HIV/STI Annual Surveillance Report” was presented by Stephanie Schuette, Director of
Surveillance Epidemiology and Research, highlighted new HIV/STI data in a recently release CDPH HIV/STI report.
Old Business:
After suggestions on Board of Health changes in previous weeks, the Board decided to meet in February at the
Englewood Health Clinic rather than at CDPH headquarters, with the possibility of additional venue changes over
the course of the year. The Board is also supportive of inviting the African American and Latino Caucus chair
persons to attend meetings. Changes to the agenda structure were deferred to the next meeting.
New Business:
•

Board Member Juan Calderon creating a comprehensive resolution on gun violence and on the global
warming refugees at the Mexico/U.S. Border to be introduced at next meeting.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
December 19, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
•
•

Mercy Hospital condolence to be finalized by next meeting.
Designation of Authority motion approved by the Board of Health with the commissioner present;
designating CDPH Chief Medical Officer Allison Arwady, M.D., or any of her successors to exercise arrest
authority.

Public Comments: No comments from the public. Dr. Lopez congratulations the board for a good year and wishes
a happy holiday to everyone.
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:39 am

 