REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
SEPTEMBER 15, 2009
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Steele and Suffredin (15)

Absent:

President Stroger and Commissioners Goslin and Moreno (2)

Also Present:

Randy Johnston – Supervisor, Transactions & Health Law Section, State’s
Attorney’s Office; Warren L. Batts – Chairman, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board; William T. Foley – Chief Executive Officer, Cook
County Health and Hospitals System; Pitt Calkin – Interim Chief Financial
Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; and David Carvalho –
Finance Chairman, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant
to notice on Tuesday, September 15, 2009 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:
302414

COOK COUNTY HEALTH and HOSPITALS SYSTEM FISCAL YEAR 2010
PRELIMINARY BUDGET. Transmitting a Communication from Warren L. Batts,
Chairman and William T. Foley, Chief Executive Officer:
Please accept the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board's budget
recommendation for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System for the Fiscal
Year 2010. The budget recommendation was approved by the System Board on
August 26, 2009. The public hearings shall be conducted by the Finance
Committee of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board. The System
will hold public hearings on its Preliminary Budget at times and locations to be
announced.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 09/01/09.

Chairman Daley called on Warren Batts, Chairman of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board, to present their Preliminary Budget.
Mr. Batts stated that the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board will present their
annual report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners at the September 16, 2009 meeting.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 15, 2009
PAGE 2
In addition, they are working on a strategic plan with a target date for completion in November
2009.
Mr. Batts then introduced Mr. William T. Foley, Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System.
Mr. Foley gave a presentation summarizing the 2009 accomplishments and 2010 goals of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System. (See Attachment #1)
Commissioner Schneider asked if the System Board has a position regarding a new union
agreement of physicians at Stroger Hospital.
Mr. Foley responded that there are mixed feelings, but as Chief Executive Officer his
recommendation to the System Board was to recognize the physicians union at Stroger
Hospital. The System Board is already dealing with a physicians union at other locations. Mr.
Foley further stated that System Board needs to have both the physicians and their union as our
partners to effectively implement change. He doesn’t feel that this is the time to be fighting with
the unions, and the System Board agreed.
Commissioner Beavers inquired as to the types of services that are being expanded at
Provident Hospital.
Mr. Foley responded that service expansions are under consideration as part of the strategic
planning process. The System Board has been in discussion with the University of Chicago
about possible partnership opportunities.
Commissioner Beavers stated that he would like to see Provident Hospital gain designation as a
trauma center.
Mr. Batts stated that trauma center designation is under the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois.
Commissioner Murphy inquired about making Oak Forest Hospital a trauma center.
Mr. Foley responded that the cost of building a new trauma center would be a huge expense.
David Carvalho, Finance Chairman of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board,
stated that he intends to convene a meeting for System Board members to be briefed on the
procedure for attaining designation as a trauma center. The time and date of this meeting has
not been determined, but the Board of Commissioners will be notified and invited to attend when
the date has been set.
Chairman Daley inquired about the current rejection rate for reimbursement claims from
Medicare.
Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board,
said that he would provide an answer to Chairman Daley’s question. He estimates that the
rejection rate is lower today than it was at this time last year, but the actual rate will be provided
later.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 15, 2009
PAGE 3
Chairman Daley requested that Mr. Calkin’s response include an analysis of the performance of
MedAssets compared to one year ago.
Vice Chairman Sims asked how many of our employees are currently working with MedAssets?
Mr. Calkin responded that there are in excess of 200 county employees working with
MedAssets.
Chairman Daley asked for the number of employees in the coding section who have been
terminated for failure to meet minimum performance standards.
Mr. Calkin indicated there has been zero performance-based terminations since May 2008.
Chairman Daley asked if there are benchmarks for performance established by MedAssets.
Mr. Calkin responded performance analysis is ongoing. Currently, 60% of the medical records
are coded incorrectly.
Chairman Daley responded that this figure was unacceptably high.
Mr. Calkin agreed, and expressed his hope that the System Board will be able to work with the
unions to improve performance.
Mr. Foley stated that employees need support if they are to improve.
charged with retraining staff and assisting them in reducing error rates.

MedAssets is also

Commissioner Gainer asked if there is a plan to reactivate the mammography van.
Mr. Foley stated the mammography van is under consideration as part of the strategic plan.
Commissioner Peraica asked for an explanation regarding apparent spending increases in
various budgetary lines.
Mr. Calkin clarified that an accurate comparison requires examining the prior year’s
appropriation, compared to the request for next year.
Chairman Daley explained that, once approved, the Preliminary Budget will be incorporated in
the President’s Executive Budget Recommendation for Fiscal Year 2010. After the President
submits his budget recommendations to the Board, the budget for the Health and Hospitals
System will be subject to amendment, just as any other section of the proposed 2010 budget.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Collins, moved approval of the
Fiscal Year 2010 Preliminary Budget for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(Communication No. 302414). Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of
yeas and nays being as follows:

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 15, 2009
PAGE 4
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE
THE FISCAL YEAR 2010 PRELIMINARY BUDGET FOR
THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Yeas:

Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Murphy,
Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin and
Chairman Daley (15)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Commissioners Goslin and Moreno (2)

The motion to approve the Fiscal Year 2010 Preliminary Budget for the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System CARRIED.
Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved to adjourn.
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

The

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 302414

Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance

____________________________
John P. Daley, Chairman
Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 