MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
March 20, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, March 20, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 9th floor at 100 W. Randolph at the JRTC Building, Chicago, Illinois
at 10:10 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould. Chairman Jaffe participated via speaker phone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of February 21, 2013. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
•

Item for Initial Consideration – Penn national Gaming, Inc. – Proposed Corporate
Restructure

Paul Jenson along with Mr. Clifford of Penn National gave a brief presentation to the Board
regarding the proposed restructure.
•

Caesars Entertainment Corporation – Request to Refinance
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve Caesars
Entertainment Corporation’s request for approval of the issuance of up to
$3.5 billion of first lien bonds to fund the repayment of Caesar’ existing first
lien debt; an amendment to Caesars’ bank facility credit agreement to
exclude certain new First Lien Bonds from the calculation of the senior
secured leverage ratio maintenance test; an accordion feature allowing for an
incremental $650 million increase in the new First Lien Note capacity; and
obtaining up to $175 million of an extended revolver due 2017 to replace the
original maturing revolver. This approval considers all indenture terms
therein that apply to Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a
Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and the general partner ownership interests of
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino
and Hotel. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. Member Holewinski
was in favor of the motion. Chairman Jaffe was opposed to the motion. The
motion passed 3 to 1.

 •

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Edgar C.
Domingo, Vice President of Finance – Level 1
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board
approve Edgar C. Domingo as a Level One Occupational Licensee in his
position as Vice President of Finance of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSE ITEM
•

A.C. Coin & Slot Service Company, Inc. – Request to Surrender Supplier’s License
Member Gould moved that the Board approve A.C. Coin & Slot Service Company,
Inc.’s petition to surrender its Supplier’s License which is currently valid until June
2014. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board find
suitable and approve 35 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 99
applications for Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
•

Donnell Marquis Eason – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint revoking the license of Donnell Marquis Eason for
failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board, said action to
take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless he files an
Answer or pays a $500.00 fine within that time period. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Nancy A. Jones – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint revoking the occupational license of Nancy A. Jones due
to her admission of theft from Harrah’s Metropolis Casino, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint unless she files an
Answer within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 At 10:25 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 