 


. II.



IV.

ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL MEETING

MINUTES OF THE ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL MEETING HELD ON MAY 12, 2004

OPENING OF MEETING - 9:30 AM, 320 West Washington Street, Suite
500, Springfield, Illinois

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Joint Panel Chairman, Michael Hade, Member of the State
Panel; Charles Hernandez, Member of the State Panel; Rex Piper, Member of the
State Panel; Letitia Taylor, Member of the State Panel; acalyn J. Zimmerman,
General Counsel; Fred Wickizer, Acting Executive Director and staff members.
Donald Hubert, Member of the Local Panel participated by phone. Edward
Sadlowski, Member of the Local Panel, was not present.

MINUTES APPROVAL

No minutes were available; they will be prepared and apprOved at the next
meeting.

RULES APPROVAL TO BE TAKEN AT THIS MEETING

Chair Gallagher asked if all Board members had received copies of the proposed
rules. The purpose of the meeting was to approve Emergency and First Notice
police perjury rules to implement Public Act 93?0655. General Counsel
Zimmerman stated that Member Sadlowski, although not present, had given his
pie?approval to the proposed rules. 

Member Donald Hubert posed a question regarding Section 1240.40 of the
proposed rules. He stated that the language was not clear. It was unanimously
decided that adding a comma to distinguish between the defendant and police
officer needing to have personal knowledge of perjury would resolve the issue.

Member Hubert then posed a scenario where the Executive Director authorizes a
hearing to go forward and the police officers involved choose not to participate
but to take the Fifth Amendment. He questioned where in the Rules does it
provide for of?cers taking the Fifth Amendment. General Counsel Zimmerman
responded that this is essentially a license revocation proceeding, not a civil nor a
criminal proceeding. She responded the issue was substantive and could not be
anticipated in the rules. Staff Counsel Michele Cotiupe commented that the

 

 

IV.

particular situation needed to arise, have brie?ng 011 the issues and then a have a
ruling. Member Hubert agreed to leave the issue open.

Member Hubert then questioned whether there is a part of our process to protect
the Board from a potential legal blindside by certain issues that were not
addressed in the Rules. He questioned if the Rules were published 011 the 
website. Staff Counsel Michele Cotrupe responded that the Rules were published
and the Board is allowed during the ?rst notice period to have a public hearing
upon request if the parties have substantive comments.

State Panel Michael Hade made a motion to approve the Rules as amended. State
Panel Letitia Taylor seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously.

PROPOSED ADDITION TO 
ROSTER

The Joint Panel will hold the consideration of the proposed addition of Stanley B.
Kravit and Michael S. Jordan to the Board?s Mediation/Arbitration roster until the
next Joint Panel meeting.

ADJOURNMENT

State Panel Member Michael Hade made the motion to adjourn the joint rules
meeting. State Panel Member Rex Piper seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously.

 

