Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Criminal Justice Committee

Wednesday, March 2, 2016

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Goslin,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (12)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Murphy, Sims and Suffredin (5)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107 (dd).
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

16-1876
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/9/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Vice Chairman Moore, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (12)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Murphy, Sims and Suffredin (5)

16-1586
Sponsored by: GREGG GOSLIN, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N.
SILVESTRI, AND TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
Page 1 of 4

 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REPLICA FIREARMS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses, Permits and
Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article XII, Replica Firearms, SECTION NUMBER 54-420 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 54-420. Replica Firearms.
***
(e) Exceptions. The manufacture, marketing, distribution, sale and possession of replica firearms are
permitted if the devices are manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or held solely for subsequent transportation
in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce. Such devices shall not be displayed to the general public or sold for
other use in the County.
(1) Additionally, Licensed Firearms Instructors, who have a current registration from the Illinois
Department of Professional Regulation, are exempted if they are using replica firearms for education,
instruction and training of safety and proper handling of firearms within a business or classroom setting.
(f) Violation. Any person who violates the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense. All actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall
be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, Illinois Revised
Statutes, Chapter 110, Section 1-101, et seq. (1985), as amended. Each purchase, use, sale, gift or transfer of any
such replica firearm shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense, and each day a person unlawfully engages in
the business of selling or exhibits for sale any such replica firearm, paint pellet or paint pellet gun shall be deemed
a separate and distinct offense.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to suspend the rules to
consider a substitute introduced outside of the 24 hour minimum window. The motion carried by the
following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (12)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Murphy, Sims and Suffredin (5)

Page 2 of 4

 PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 16-1586
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE MARCH 2, 2016

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REPLICA FIREARMS USED AS CELLPHONE HOLDERS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Article XII of the Cook County
Code is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE XII. REPLICA FIREARMS USED AS CELLPHONE HOLDERS
Sec. 54-420. Replica guns.
(a) Title. This division shall be known and may be cited as the “Replica Firearms Used As Cellphone Holders
Ordinance” of Cook County, Illinois.
(b) Purpose and Policy. Like other major cities across America, the Cook County Government faces the ongoing
challenge of combating the scourge of gun violence in our communities. Many imitation and replica firearms are
manufactured in a manner that makes them nearly indistinguishable from working firearms; and imitation and
replica firearms pose the greatest threat to mistakes in the use of force by police. Several foreign manufactured
mobile phone cases which have the appearance of 9mm handguns have recently appeared for sale on several online
retail outlets, and the one "Gun Grip Case" features the grip of an actual gun and trigger guard attached to the
housing of a phone cover. When placed in a pocket, this product is indistinguishable from a working handgun. Law
enforcement officials from New York, New Jersey and Michigan among others have advised people not to purchase
or use this product. Numerous incidents have been reported by law enforcement officers across the country who
have mistakenly identified imitation or replica firearms to be working handguns.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, possess, conceal, use, sell, give away or otherwise transfer, or
to engage in the business of selling or to exhibit for sale, a replica firearm used as cellphone holders in Cook County,
except as provided in subsection (e) of this section.
(d) Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Replica firearm used as cellphone holders means any device, object or facsimile made of plastic, wood, metal or
any other material, that a person could reasonably perceive as an actual firearm but that is incapable of being fired
or discharged, including, but not limited to mobile phone cases, lighters, and cameras, except that the term shall not
include any replica of an antique firearm. Each such replica firearm shall have as an integral part, permanently
affixed, a blaze orange plug inserted in the barrel of such replica firearm. Such plug shall be recessed no more than
six millimeters from the muzzle end of the barrel of such firearm.
(e) Exceptions.
(1) The manufacture, marketing, distribution, sale and possession of replica firearms are permitted if the
devices are manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or held solely for subsequent transportation in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce. Such devices shall not be displayed to the general public or sold
for other use in the County.
(2) Toys.

Page 3 of 4

 (3) Additionally, Licensed Firearms Instructors, who have a current registration from the Illinois
Department of Professional Regulation, are exempted if they are using replica firearms for education,
instruction and training of safety and proper handling of firearms within a business or classroom setting.
(f) Violation. Any person who violates the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense. All actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be
filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, Illinois Revised
Statutes, Chapter 110, Section 1-101, et seq. (1985), as amended. Each purchase, use, sale, gift or transfer of any
such replica firearm shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense, and each day a person unlawfully engages in
the business of selling or exhibits for sale any such replica firearm paint pellet or paint pellet gun, shall be deemed
a separate and distinct offense.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (12)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Murphy, Sims and Suffredin (5)
A motion was made by Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (12)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Murphy, Sims and Suffredin (5)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri to adjourn the meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

________________________________

________________________________

Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 4 of 4

 