MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
August 22, 2013
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, August 22, 2013 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:45 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele,
Lee Gould, Michael Holewinski and Chairman Aaron Jaffe.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Holewinski moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 18, 2013. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT Administrator Ostrowski stated that 24 hour gaming is being requested by the casinos. The
Board will be open to comments from the public at the September 18, 2013 Board meeting. He
also mentioned that is a five minute time limit for each speaker and if anyone wishes to express
their views at that time please contact the Board Secretary Monica Biddings.
BOARD POLICY ITEM
Caleb Melamed addressed the Board.
Section 5 (c) (3) of the Riverboat Gambling Act [230 ILCS 10] confers rulemaking authority
upon the Illinois Gaming Board regarding riverboat gambling. At the August 22, 2013 open
meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board, the Board’s legal staff will submit proposals to amend the
Board’s rules on riverboat gambling [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000] as follows:
Renewal of supplier’s license
The proposed rulemaking amends Section 241 of the riverboat gambling rules [86 Ill. Admin.
Code 3000.241 (“Renewal of Supplier’s License”)] to provide that materials by supplier’s
licensees and their key persons in connection with renewal of a license must be submitted to the
Board at least 90 days, instead of 60 days, before the renewal date. The proposed new language
does not change the required materials that must be submitted as a condition for renewal. The
licensees seeking renewal must submit the following:
•

A written statement requesting license renewal;

 •

A written statement verifying past compliance with the annual disclosure affidavit
required under Section 240 [86 Ill. Admin. Code 240];

•

Measures taken by the licensee to assure compliance with the Riverboat Gambling Act
and rules; and

•

Responses to specific questions raised by the Board in connection with its re-licensure
investigation and review.

Key persons must submit information updating, and attesting to the veracity of all previously
submitted materials and setting forth any required additional or different information from that
which has been previously submitted.
Submission of the above information 90 days before a license is scheduled to expire will
facilitate the renewal process by ensuring that the IGB staff can conduct a thorough re-licensing
review in a timely fashion. The 90-day period also corresponds with that currently in effect for
owner’s license renewals [230 Ill. Admin. Code 3000.236].
Privacy of surveillance recordings
The proposed rulemaking adds a new subsection (c) to Section 840 of the riverboat gambling
rules [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000.840] designed to ensure the confidentiality of videotape and
digital surveillance recordings. The new subsection provides that the viewing of any videotape
or digital recording by any party other than Illinois Gaming Board staff or designated
surveillance employees of an owner licensee is prohibited unless specifically approved by the
Administrator or his or her designee, the Attorney General in the capacity of legal representative
of the Illinois Gaming Board, or pursuant to a lawful subpoena.
•

Proposed Amendments to the Riverboat Gambling Rules –
Member Holewinski moved to authorize staff to amend the Board’s rules on
Riverboat Gambling by submitting a proposal for First Notice Filing with the
Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the Administrator, including
Section 241 regarding the Renewal of a Supplier’s License; and Section 840
regarding the Storage and Retrieval of videotape and digital recordings. Member
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
Jordan Fein, an attorney representing UNITE HERE; the union representing over 250,000 workers in
the hospitality industry; appeared before the Board with concerns about Rivers Casino’s lack of
expansion as originally stated in their initial proposals during the bidding process.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS –
•

Micro Gaming Technologies, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal

2

 Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board renew
Micro Gaming Technologies, Inc.’s Supplier’s License for a period of four years,
expiring in August 2017, and designate Mark A. Bryant and the position of
President as Key Persons of the licensee. Further, I move that the Board authorize
the licensee to supply custom promotional software to licensed Illinois casinos.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
•

DiTronics Financial Services, LLC – New Supplier License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that DiTronics Financial Services,
LLC be granted a Supplier’s License for a term of one year and that the following
positions and individuals be designated as Key Persons of the licensee:
President/CEO; Executive Vice President of Operations; George James Vasilakos;
and George Steven Vasilakos. Further, I move that the Board authorize the licensee
to supply ticket redemption kiosks to licensed Illinois casinos. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Holewinski moved that the Board find suitable
and approve 89 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 123 applications
for Level 3 Occupational Licenses and that the Administrator issue Notices of
Denial to Corey Gist and David Williams. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
•

Spielo International USA LLC –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint to fine Spielo International USA LLC $20,000.00 for failing
to timely file its Annual Submission to the Board, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless the licensee files an Answer within
that time period. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:40 A.M. Member Vander Weele motioned to adjourn and Member Holewinski seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 