STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 23, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post,
General Counsel; and staff members. Chairman Zimmerman noted that this was first meeting at which
General Counsel Post would be the Board's counsel.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD DECEMBER 8, 2009

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the December 8, 2009 meeting. Member
Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative
actions report for the period of time from November 1, 2009 through January 31, 2010. He distributed
the report to the Board, and the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-08-460
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO),
and recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the ALJ, with minor changes to his
application of the confidential exclusion test, and with the exception that the Board remand to the ALJ
for additional consideration, the issue of the confidential status of one employee, Patricia Bernhardt.
After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept General Counsel Post's recommendation. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-09-037
Christine Johnson/First Transit/River Valley Metro
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the result determined by the
ALJ. After the Board discussed the issues, Member Coli moved to accept General Counsel Post's
recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.

 3.
Case No. S-CA-08-285
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 196/Village of Richmond
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case Nos. S-CA-06-188 and S-CA-06-220
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee/City of East Peoria
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-08-251
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 196/City of Savanna
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-RC-09-079
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Flossmoor
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-RC-10-005
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/Village of Lakemoor
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
8.
Case No. S-RC-09-049
Metropolitan Alliance of Police/Village of Bolingbrook
Case No. S-RC-09-087
American Fed. of State, County and Municipal Emp., Council 31/Village of Bolingbrook
Chairman Zimmerman called the cases, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
9.
Case No. S-CA-10-022
Magdalena M. Surowka/State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on
December 10, 2009, with an appeal filed. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion,
Member Coli moved to uphold the executive director's dismissal. Member Hade seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Staff distributed the fiscal report, and Executive Director Brosnan updated the Board as to the status of
legislation that could affect the agency. The Chair and Members of the Board discussed the fiscal report
2

 and the pending legislation. Thereafter, the Board considered whether there was a need for executive
session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of May, 2010.

3

 