MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
December 16, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, December 16, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:05 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee
Gould, Hector Alejandre and Member Dee Robinson.
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on November 6, 2015. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PUBLIC COMMENTARTY –
Bill Hayles – General Manager of Hollywood Casino Aurora and Hollywood Casino Joliet –
Introduce himself to the Board and Staff
Cori Rutherford – Vice President and General Manager Par-A-Dice Casino – recap of the
Diversity Business Symposium
Ron Newman – Statement regarding incident at the Grand Victoria Casino
BOARD POLICY ITEM (2016 Board Meeting Dates)










Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 27
Thursday, March 3 and Friday, March 4
Wednesday, April 20 and Thursday, April 21
Wednesday, June 1 and Thursday, June 2
Wednesday, July 27 and Thursday, July 28
Tuesday, August 30 and Wednesday, August 31
Thursday, October 6 and Friday, October 7
Wednesday, November 2 and Thursday, November 3
Tuesday, December 13 and Wednesday, December 14

OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Initial Consideration
(No Board Action)
MGM REIT Transaction and Corporate Reorganization
Final Consideration
Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino Anton D. Nikodemus Key
Person

 Based on staff's investigation and recommendation Member Gould moved to find Anton D.
Nikodemus suitable as Key Person in his role as an Executive Committee Member of Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
GTECH USA, LLC (Request to surrender Supplier License pursuant to Board Rule 244)
Based on staff’s recommendation, Member Robinson moved to grant the request to surrender
from GTECH USA, LLC. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. Supplier License Renewal
Based on our review and staff’s investigation, Member Robinson moved to approve the
renewal of the Supplier License of Patriot Gaming & Electronics, Inc. for a period of four
years, expiring in December 2019, and approve the following as Key Persons: Mark E.
Komorowski and Mark C. Nocco. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approval and Denials)
Approvals & Denials:
Member Alejandre moved to approve 52 level 2 occupational licenses, and 126 level 3
occupational licenses. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Requests for Hearing and Requests to Reapply)
Based on our review and Staff’s recommendation, Member Alejandre moved to deny the
requests for Hearing from John Constantino and Travis Thomas as the requests did not
comply with the requirements of Board Rule 405. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Anthony Frank Ficke (Occupational licensee level 3)
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Robinson moved to issue a
disciplinary complaint to revoke the occupational license of Anthony Frank Ficke, due to
conduct which resulted in his discharge as an employee of Harrah's Casino in Joliet, said
action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to
the Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

2

 Patrick D. Wadlow (Occupational licensee level 3)
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to issue a
disciplinary complaint to revoke the occupational license of Patrick D. Wadlow, due to his
failure to update the Board regarding his criminal history, said action to take effect 21 days
from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed or a
fine of $500 is paid within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Sonya M. Dedeaux (Occupational licensee level 2)
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Robinson moved to issue a
disciplinary complaint to revoke the occupational license of Sonya M. Dedeaux, due to her
theft of personal objects of casino employees, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that
time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote
Iris M. Ignacio (Occupational licensee level 2)
Based on Staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved to issue a
disciplinary complaint suspending the occupational license of Iris M. Ignacio for a period
of 30 days, due to her failure to update the Board regarding her criminal history and her
violation of Board Rules, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service of the
Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is filed within that time frame pursuant to
Board Rule 1125. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
In re: the Disciplinary Action of Daniel Pollworth DC-15-09:
Pursuant to Board Rule 1155, Member Alejandre moved to issue a Final Board Order
adopting the Administrative Law Judge’s Order and Finding of Default dated November 4,
2015 and affirming the Board's $500 fine issued to Occupational Licensee Daniel Pollworth
as set forth in DC-15-09. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Other Investigation, Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
Delaware North request to the Illinois Gaming Board for a wagering tax refund
Based on Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Robinson moved to deny Owner
Licensee Delaware North's request for a wagering tax refund and delegate to the
Administrator the authority to issue a notice of denial. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion by a 3-0 roll call vote. Member Gould abstained from
voting.

3

 At 9:36 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 