Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice- President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, November 3, 2011

1:00 PM

Board Room

DEPARTMENTAL PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 1:10
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; and Terrence J. O'Brien

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

11-1313

Meeting Minutes

November 3, 2011

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of Commissioner Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Chairman of the
Committee on Budget and Employment, a Special Meeting will be held on
Thursday, November 3, 2011, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room, 100 East Erie
Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the 2012 Departmental Budget
Presentations.
Attached for your information is the 2012 Budget Schedule.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
Attachments:

2012 Budget Calendar

A motion was made by Patricia Horton, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays
2

11-1396

Authority for Changes to the Executive Director’s 2012 Budget
Recommendations
Attachments:

Consol BF19 Package

A motion was made by Board of Commissioners, seconded by Board of
Commissioners, to adopt the Changes to the Executive Director's 2012 Budget
Recommendations. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No
nays
3

11-1398

MOTION to amend the financial policies regarding Budget practices relative
to the funding of the Stormwater Management Fund and Bond & Interest
Fund investment income
A motion was made by Terrence J. O'Brien, seconded by Barbara J. McGowan,
that this Agenda Item be Amended. The motion carried by the following roll
call vote:
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 3, 2011

Open Discussion
Each department made their respective presentation.
Barbara J. McGowan requested Executive Director consider not filling the position for
Head Assitant Attorney.
Cynthia M. Santos, requested the District look into grant training.
Barbara J. McGowan, requested an update on children video and coloring book
materials------ early education program initiative including field trips.
Cynthia M. Santos, suggested the above be tied into District's green initiative
program in the schools.
Cynthia M. Santos, requested the District review its emergency preparedness plan
and provide related employee training.
Debra Shore, requested we resume preparing the pandemic readiness plan.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Terrence J. O'Brien, seconded by Cynthia M. Santos,
that this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this
November 3, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 3, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 