Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Chairman of Finance Frank
Avila, Commissioner Timothy Bradford, Vice President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos
Thursday, March 31, 2016

10:00 AM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at
10:05 a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

6-

Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh;
and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

3-

Michael A. Alvarez; Timothy Bradford; and Cynthia M. Santos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

1

Meeting Minutes

March 31, 2016

16-0306
Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will
hold a public hearing at 10:00 a.m. on the 31st day of March, 2016, in the
Board Room at the Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public
comments on the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to
issue not to exceed $550,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement
Bonds of the District to provide funds required for the replacing, remodeling,
completing, altering, constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment works,
administrative buildings, water quality improvement projects, or flood control
facilities, and additions therefor, including, but not limited to, the construction of
pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet sewers,
together with the equipment,
including
air
pollution
equipment,
and
appurtenances thereto, to acquire property, real, personal or mixed, necessary
for said purposes, and for costs and expenses for the acquisition of the sites
and rights-of-way necessary thereto, and for engineering expenses for
designing and supervising the construction of such works and other related
and incidental expenses.
By order of Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 17th day of March, 2016.
/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Debra Shore, that this Report be
Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No
nays

2

16-0311

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue
General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed
$550,000,000
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by David J. Walsh, that this Report
be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No
nays

Open Discussion
Catherine A. O'Connor, Director of Engineering, presented a report to the Board on the
District's intention to issue General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds

Adjournment
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by David J. Walsh, that this Public
Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
/s/Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

March 31, 2016

Aye:

6-

Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh;
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

3-

Michael A. Alvarez; Timothy Bradford; Cynthia M. Santos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this March 31, 2016, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
March 31, 2016

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 