Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes Pension Committee
Wednesday, June 8, 2016

9:15AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Schneider, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioner Murphy (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, concerned citizen

2. Joseph Fratto - Chief of Staff, Office of the Cook County Treasurer
3. Nickol Hackett - Executive Director & CIO, Cook County Pension Fund
4. Ivan Samstein - Chief Financial Officer, Cook County

16-2929
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, JOHN P. DALEY and GREGG GOSLIN, County

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO TAXING DISTRICT DEBT DISCLOSURE ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the terminology describing the reporting of pensions is updated according to accounting
pronouncements recently issued by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB); and
WHEREAS, to improve the timeliness of reporting, taxing districts are required to submit financial data to the
Office of the Cook County Treasurer within 3 0 days of issuance, rather than the previous static deadline of the last
Tuesday in December; and
WHEREAS, to expedite the initial reporting of important pension information, taxing districts are required to
initially electronically provide to the Office of the Cook County Treasurer by July 29, 2016 the most recent actuarial
report(s) prepared for their Pension Plan(s).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV Officers and Employees, Division 4 Treasurer, Subdivision 1 In General, Section 2-243
of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

 Sec. 2-243. Taxing district debt disclosure.
(a) Definitions.
Actuarial accrued liability (AAL), other postemployment benefits (OPEB), unfunded actuarial accrued liability
(UAAL), tota l pension liabil ity (T PL), net pens ion liability (NPL), fiduciary net position (FNP) and healthcare cost
trend rate shall have the same meanings ascribed to such terms under the generally accepted accounting principles
for governmental accounting promulgated from time to time by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.
Actuarial cost method, amortization method, asset valuation method, investment rate of return, and any other
actuarial terms used and not defined herein shall have the same meanings as defined by Actuarial Standards of
Practice, as promulgated from time to time by the Actuarial Standards Board.
Audited financial statements, current debt, current liabilities, long term debt, long term liabilities and any other
accounting terms used and not defined herein shall have the same meanings as defined by Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, as promulgated from time to time by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants,
and shall conform with the accounting principles and auditing standards generally accepted in the United States,
including without limitation those generally accepted accounting principles for governmental accounting as are set
forth in publications of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board.
Taxing District shall have the same meaning as defined by 35 ILCS 200/1-150.
Total Pension Liability shall mean the sum total of all liabilities of-a public pension fund established in the
Illinois Pension Code and associated with employees of a Taxing District in respect of the pension and retirement
obligations of such Taxing District. Total Pension Liability includes both AAL the TPL for pension benefits-and
AAL for OPEB benefits.
Total Unfunded Pension Liability shall mean the sum total of all unfunded liabilities of a-public pension fund
established in the Illinois Pension Code and associated with employees of a Taxing Distrit in respect of the pension
and retirement obligations of such Taxing District. Total Unfunded Pension Liability includes the NPLYAAL for
pension benefits and UAAL for OPEB benefits.
Total OPEB Liability shall mean the sum total of all reported liabilities of a Taxing District in respect to OPEB
obligations as reported for such Taxing Di stri ct, whether the OPEB i pr vided by the Retirement Fund associated
wiU1 ilie Taxing District or the Taxing District itself. Total OP "B Liabil ity includes the AAL fi r OPEB. whether
provided by the Retirement Fund associated with the Taxing Dishict or the axing District itself.
Total Unfunded OPEB Liability shall mean the sum total of all reported unfunded liabilities of a Taxing
District in respect to OPEB obligations as reported for such Taxing District, whether the OPEB isprovided by the
Retirement Fund associated with tJ1e Tax ing District or the Taxi ng District itself. Total Unfunded OPEB Liability
includes the UAAL for OPEB. whether orovided bv the Retirement Fund associated with the Taxing District or the
Taxing District itself.
(b) Duty of Taxing Districts to disclose all debt. Each Taxing District shall, on or before thirty days after such
Taxing Di tri.ct' most recent aud ited [mancials have b en issued, the last T1:1 esday ia Decembei=,-provide to the
Office of the Cook County Treasurer, in the electronic format required by Office of the Cook County Treasurer, a
full, complete, unabridged and unedited copy of such Taxing District's most recent audited financial statement
(along with any and all auditor's reports notes and comments on such audited financial statements), accompanied
by such Taxing District's written disclosure of the following information:
(1)

(2)

Sum total of all debts and liabilities from such financial statement( s );
The portion of the total amount reported in Subsection Cb)( l) above that represents the t tal NP
all pension benefits;
Page 2 of6

for

 (li)

Sum total of gross tax levy for the most recent tax year;

(1_;)

Gross operating budget revenue for the most recent fiscal year;

(~4)

Total Pension Liability;

(ยง_~)

Total Unfunded Pension Liability, which shall be denoted as a separate line item below Total Pension
Liability;

(7)

Total OPEB Liability as reported;

(8)

Total Unfunded OPEB Liability as reported. which shall be denoted as a separate line item b low Total
OPEB Liability;

(26)

Actuarial cost method utilized by the Taxing District in its calculations of Total Pension Liability and
Total Unfunded Pension Liability;

(lQ+) Asset valuation method utilized by the Taxing District in its calculation of Total Unfunded Pension
Liability;
(118) Each of the following actuarial assumptions underlying the Taxing District's calculations of Total

Pension Liability_,__aOO--Total Unfunded Pension Liability, Total OPEB Liability and Total Unfunded
OPEB Liability as applicable:
a. Investment rate of return;
b. Annual rate of salary increases;
c. Participant mortality rate;-afl:d
d. Healthcare cost trend rate for OPEB benefits;
(12_9) Total agency employees or full time equivalents (FTE), as of the most recent fiscal year;

(13)

An electronic copy of the most recent actuarial valuation(s) prepared in accordance with the
provisions ofGASB 67/68 for all ta ing district Pension Liabilities;

(14-1-0) Total pension fund retirees and the beneficiaries of said retirees receiving pension benefits, as of the
most recent fiscal year;
(U-l--1-) Name and contact information (including telephone number, fax number, and email address, if
available) for the chief elected official of the Taxing District and for the chief finance official of the
Taxing District; and

(lQR)

If the Taxing District is a county, city, village, or incorporated town, the current total population of

such Taxing District.
(c) In the event that a Taxing District does not have an audited financial statement for the most recent fiscal
year, such Taxing District shall in lieu thereof provide to the Office of the Cook County Treasurer the most recent
unaudited financial statement of such Taxing District, provided in all events that such unaudited financial statement
shall include disclosures of the subject Taxing District's actual or contingent current debt, current liabilities, long
term debt and long term liabilities. A Taxing District, whose financial statements are included or consolidated in
the financial statements of another Taxing District, is not required to separately provide the required financial
statements in the event said other Taxing District is in compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.

Page 3 of6

 (d) Independent of the duty of Taxing Districts to make annual disclosures pursuant to Subsection (b) above,

within 60 days fo llowing notifiealion by the Offiee of the Goo k Gounty Treasurer via United States Postal Servi%
first elass prepaid mail each Taxing District shall initially provide to the Office of the Cook County Treasurer, in
the electronic format required by the Office of the Cook County Treasurer, a written disclosure containing the
information required under Subsections (b)(il9) and (b)(lO) above by July 29, 2016.
(e) Duty of Treasurer to make available disclosure of debt. The Office of the Cook County Treasurer shall:
( 1) Create an electronic repository for the storage of all financial disclosures made by such Taxing Districts;
and
(2) Cause to be published on each regularly issued real estate tax bill the website address which provides, to
taxpayers and other interested parties, electronic access to such financial disclosures by such Taxing
Districts.

(f) Publication of disclosures. The Office of the Cook County Treasurer may, in the sole discretion of the
Cook County Treasurer:
( 1) Publish on the Cook County Treasurer's official website the names of any Taxing Districts that have failed
to comply fully with the requirements of this Ordinance; and,
(2) Publish from time to time (but in no event more frequently than twice per calendar year) in one or more
newspapers having a circulation within Cook County (i) any disclosures provided by Taxing Districts
pursuant to this Ordinance or otherwise and/or (ii) the names of any Taxing Districts that have failed to
comply fully with the requirements of this Ordinance.
(g) Duty of Taxing District to provide and maintain contact information. In the event of any change to the
contact information provided by a Taxing District pursuant to Subsection (b )( 1~+), the Taxing District shall forthwith
provide revised and up-to-date contact information to the Office of the Cook County Treasurer.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage and approval.
A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Schneider, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioner Murphy (2)

Page 4 of6

 16-3195
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CALLING A PENSION COMMITTEE MEETING TO DISCUSS THE FISCAL YEAR 2015
ACTUARIAL VALUATION REPORTS FOR THE COOK COUNTY AND FOREST PRESERVE
EMPLOYEES' AND OFFICERS' ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUNDS; AN UPDATE ON THE IMPACT
OF RECENT SUPREME COURT DECISIONS ON PENSION REFORM AND TO DISCUSS THE
ESTIMATEDPAYMENTFROMTHECOOKCOUNTYSALESTAX REVENUE IN 2017 TO THE
COOK COUNTY PENSION FUND.
WHEREAS, actuarial reports for the Cook County Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund and the Forest
Preserve District Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County as of December 31, 2015 are expected to
be released Summer 2016; and
WHEREAS, these reports will highlight the funded status and total unfunded pension liability of the Cook County
Pension Fund and Forest Preserve Pension Fund as of December 31, 2015; and
WHEREAS, in 2015 the Cook County Board passed an increase in the Cook County Sales Tax with the intent to
devote "90% of the funding to paying down the pension and the remaining 10% to debt service and infrastructure
investments," based on an alternative proposed pension funding schedule drafted by the Chief Financial Officer;
and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Supreme Court issued opinions regarding pension reform legislation in Illinois that may
impact the Cook County Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund and the Forest Preserve District Employees'
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County; and
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED, upon their release the Cook County Pension Committee shall meet for the
purpose of discussing the actuarial valuation reports for the Cook County Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund
and the Forest Preserve District Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County as of December 31, 2015;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Pension Committee shall call a meeting to hear a report from
the Chief Financial Officer on the expected payment based on the proposed alternative pension funding schedule
for 2017; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Pension Committee shall call a meeting to discuss the impact
of recent Illinois Supreme Court decisions and its impact on Cook County Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund
and the Forest Preserve District Employees' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County.
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Resolution be
recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Schneider, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioner Murphy (2)

Page 5 of6

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Schneider, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioner Murphy (2)

Respectfully submitted,

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https:/lcook-countv.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx

Page 6 of6

 