Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Criminal Justice Committee

Wednesday, October 28, 2015

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey,
Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman García asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2. Alice Norris, Purpose Over Pain
Following speakers were registered but time was requested to be yielded from Com Boykin
3. Kevin Bailey, concerned Citizen
4. Zerlinda Smith, Increase the Harvest
5. Esaun Keller, Increase the Harvest
6. Anna Astalas, Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence
7. Ronald Jackson, Restorative Justice
8. Dr. Mary Rose Hallihan, Physician
Testimony also provide by:
Kara Smith, Chief Strategist-Sheriff Dart

15-6208
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10-7-2015
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this
Committee Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)

 15-5847
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

APPOINTING A COOK COUNTY GUN VIOLENCE COORDINATOR AND ESTABLISHING A
COOK COUNTY GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE
WHEREAS, the year 2015 has seen dramatically escalating levels of gun violence in Cook County,
especially in the County seat of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, in that time, more than 2,300 people in Cook County have been victims of shootings; and
WHEREAS, in 2015, year to date, according to the most recent data made available by the Cook County
Medical Examiner, there were 527 gun deaths in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the University of Chicago Crime Lab estimated that gun violence in the City of Chicago
costs the taxpayers $2.5 billion each year; and
WHEREAS, the economic burden of that $2.5 billion cost of gun violence translates to $2,500 per
household; and
WHEREAS, a joint report by Ted Miller of the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation and
Mother Jones Magazine contains findings that gun violence across the country costs the United States
$229 billion each year; and
WHEREAS, that same joint report contains findings that gun violence in Illinois costs the state $9.6
billion each year, or about $750 per person; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government has an obligation to take action to protect its residents and
taxpayers from gun violence and the resulting cost and trauma to the County, its jails, hospitals and
courts; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government, like all units of government, has an obligation to its residents
and taxpayers to do everything possible to preserve life, reduce instances of gun violence and minimize
the harmful effects that follow acts of gun violence;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that the President of Cook County and the Board of
Commissioners hereby urge the Cook County Sheriff exercise his authority to appoint a Cook County
Gun Violence Coordinator and establish a Cook County Gun Violence Task Force; and,
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14
Community Development, Article VIII Gun Violence Coordinator and Gun Violence Task Force, Sec.
14-80 through Sec. 14-89 is hereby enacted as follows:
CHAPTER 14- COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE VIII. GUN VIOLENCE COORDINATOR AND GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE
Sec. 14-80. Short title.

 This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gun Violence Coordinator and Gun Violence Task
Force Act.
Sec. 14-81. Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where otherwise
specifically indicated:
Board of Commissioners or County Board means the Board of Commissioners for Cook County,
Illinois.
Member means appointed members of the Gun Violence Task Force.
County means “Cook County, Illinois.”
Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Coordinator means the Gun Violence Coordinator.
Ordinance means this ordinance appointing a Gun Violence Coordinator and establishing the Gun
Violence Task Force.
President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
Report means the Cook County Gun Violence Report.
State means State of Illinois.
Task Force means the Gun Violence Task Force.
Sec. 14-82. Purpose.
(a)The purpose of this Ordinance is establish the appointment by the Cook County Sheriff of a Gun
Violence Coordinator and empanel a Gun Violence Task Force, which will serve as an investigative and
fact-finding body with the objective of recommending a set of policies to the President and County
Board designed to reduce gun violence in Cook County.
(b) The Task Force will hold three public hearings chaired by the Gun Violence Coordinator to gather
testimony and data about the economic, social, and cultural causes of gun violence in Cook County and
the best methodology for reducing gun violence. The hearings shall take place over a period of time not
to exceed twelve months and shall culminate in a written set of policy recommendations put forth under
the authorship of the Gun Violence Coordinator and designed to reduce gun violence in Cook County.
(c)Such hearings shall be held in the Cook County Board Room on the 5th Floor of the Cook County
building at 118 North Clark Street in Chicago, Illinois, and the Gun Violence Coordinator and Task
Force shall have full access to resources necessary to conduct said hearings and make a record of said
hearings.
Sec. 14-83. Compliance with law.
As an investigative and fact-finding body appointed by the Cook County Sheriff, the Gun Violence
Coordinator and Task Force shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations,

 and orders.
Sec. 14-84. Task Force Membership.
(a)The Task Force shall consist of 12 members:
(1)One member designated as the Gun Violence Coordinator. The Coordinator shall be appointed by the
Cook County Sheriff. The Coordinator shall serve as the official liaison between the Task Force and
local, state, and federal officials, and the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners. The
Coordinator shall have the power to convene public meetings of the Task Force.
(2)One Cook County Commissioner serving as an Ex-Officio Member of the Commission with voting
rights. The Ex-Officio Member selected from the Board of Commissioners shall be the same
Commissioner tasked with chairing the Cook County Board of Commissioners’ Committee on Human
Relations.
(3)One additional member appointed by the President.
(4)Two members appointed by the Cook County State’s Attorney.
(5) One member appointed by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, that member being
a bond court judge.
(6)Two additional members appointed by the Cook County Sheriff.
(7) Two additional members appointed by the Cook County Sheriff from the Suburban Cook County
Law Enforcement Community.)
(8) One member from the Cook County Health and Hospital System appointed by the President.
(9) The Cook County Medical Examiner or a designee of the Cook County Medical Examiner.
14-85. Term of Office.
Unless otherwise provided or revised, the members of the Gun Violence Task Force shall be appointed
for a term of twelve months, subject to the approval of, and extension by the County Board.
14-86. Quorum Requirement, Absenteeism, Administration.
(a)A quorum shall be necessary in order to conduct all hearings of the Task Force.

14-87. Expert Testimony.
(a)The primary method of investigation by the Task Force shall be the solicitation, hearing, recording
and transcription of expert testimony. Such expert testimony shall include but not be limited to the
following categories of professionals:
(1)Law Enforcement
(2)Physicians and Nurse Practitioners
(3)Medical Examiners

 (4)Government Officials
(5)Experts in Psychiatry and Psychology
(6)Social Scientists with expertise in any of the following areas:
a.Economics
b.Criminal Justice
c.Conflict Management and Resolution
(7)Faith and Community Leaders
14-88. Cook County Gun Violence Report.
Having concluded all hearings and investigatory functions, the Gun Violence Coordinator shall compile
the testimony collected by the Task Force, and based on the information furnished through such
testimony, shall author and tender a Cook County Gun Violence Report. The length of time between the
final hearing and the completion of the Report shall not exceed six months. The Report will contain an
overview of factors contributing to gun violence in Cook County, the effects of gun violence on victims
and community members, and a set of policy recommendations designed to reduce gun violence and the
harmful effects associated with gun violence. The Report shall be furnished to the President, the Board
of Commissioners, and all countywide elected and appointed officials. Once the Report is furnished to
the aforesaid officials, the Task Force shall convene to review the totality of its proceedings to date and
determine the steps necessary in order to implement the policy recommendations set forth in the Report.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Ordinance
be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye: Chairman García, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer,
Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Steele to adjourn the meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

________________________________

________________________________

Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

 