REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
MAY 29, 2013

PUBLIC HEARING

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also
Present:

Court
Reporter:

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Commissioners Collins and Murphy (2)

Patrick Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief, Civil Actions Bureau.

Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to
published notice for a Public Hearing on Wednesday, May 29, 2013 at the hour of 9:00 AM. in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 1 18 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

hmMr?t

George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

Marc Gordon, President and CEO, Illinois Hotel Lodging Association

Monica Metzler, Spokesperson for Parking Industry Labor Management Committee
Nabil Moubayed, Director of Operations/Kimpton Hotels

Your Committee has considered the following item.

323358

AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAX, SECTIONS
74-510 THROUGH 74-519 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Transmitting a Communication, dated April 30, 2013 from Zahra Ali, Director,
Department of Revenue.

respectfully submitting an amendment to the Cook County Parking Lot and Garage
Operation Tax Ordinance.

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 2

COOK COUNTY PARKING LOT AND
GARAGE OPERATION TAX ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article Parking Lot and Garage Operations Tax, Sections 74-510 through
74?519 ofthe Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-510. - Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Parking Lot and
Garage Operations Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-511. - De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

Charge nr?ee paidfor parking meansjhe gross amount of consideration for the
use or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon anv parkingIlngLaarage in Cook
C_ountv. valued in monev, whether received in mom-3v or otherwise, includingiash, credits,
propertv and services, determined without any deduction or expenses whatsoever,

 

 

 

 

 

 

by this chapter or on account of any other tax imposed on the charge or fee. ?Charge or fee
paid for parking" shall explode scparatelv stated charges not for the use or privilege oF
parking. If anv separatelv stated charge is not optional, it shall be presumed, unless proved
otherwise, that it is part of the charge for the use or privilege of parking.

 

Department or Department of Revenue means the County Department of Revenue.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled.

Operator means any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage, as
defined by this article, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of motor vehicles
at a parking place within Cook County.

Parking lot or garage means any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the County, where four or
more motor vehicles are stored, housed or parked for hire, charge, fee or other valuable
consideration in a condition ready for use, or where rent or compensation is paid to the
owner, manager or lessee of the premises for the housing, storing, sheltering, keeping or
maintaining of such motor vehicles.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation,
organization, government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Valet Parking Operator means a person who employs one or more attendants for
the purpose of providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services, but not

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE3

in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment, for the purpose of providing a
valet parking service to such establishment located in Cook County.

Valet Parking Service means a parking service provided to accommodate patrons
of any business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the
establishment and by which an attendant on behalf of the establishment takes temporary
custody of the patrons' motor vehicle and moves, parks, stores or retrieves the vehicle for
the patrons' convenience.

Sec. 74-512. - Tax imposed.

A tax is imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in
or upon any parking lot or garage in the County. The tax shall be collected by operators
and valet parking operators, as described in this article, from any person who seeks the
privilege of occupying space in or upon any parking lot or garage.

Valet Parking Operators are required to collect and remit the tax imposed
by this article, for each motor vehicle parked at a Parking Lot or Garage, as described in
this article; however the valet parking operator is not required to collect or remit the tax if
the Valet Parking Operator pays the tax to the Operator, who shall remit the tax to the
Department.

 

 

The following tax rates imposed upon the- of parking at

l?llt?ltt??'lEIHICle in or upon parking lots or garages, except for parking lots
and garages in subsection (2), are in e_ffect through June 30, 2013.

 

 

 

 

Parking Imposed by Tax
Charge or Fee Operator Amount
Time Period

24 hours or less $2.00 or less 0.00
24 hours or less $2.01 to $4.99 0.50
24 hours or less $5.00 to $11.99 0.75
24 hours or less $12.00 or more 1.00
Weekly $10.00 or less 0.00
Weekly $10.01 to $24.99 $2.50
Weekly $25.00 to $59.99 $3.75

Weekly






FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 4
$60.00 or more 5.00
$40.00 or less 33 0.00
$40.01 to $99.99 $10.00
$100.00 to $239.99 $15.00
$240.00 or more $20.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a
motor 1rehicle in or ll?gle?l?klng lots or garages owned by municipalities
with populations of 250,000_iph_ahlgitanls or less are in e'l'tieet througl;J1m_e
30, 2013.

Parking Imposed by Tax
Charge or Fee Operator Amount
Time Period
24 hours or less $3.00 or less 0.00
24 hours or less $3.01 or $4.99 0.50
24 hours or less $5.00 to $11.99 0.75
24 hours or less $12.00 or more 1.00
Weekly $15.00 or less 0.00
Weekly $15.01 to $24.99 2.50
Weekly $25.00 to $59.99 3.75
Weekly $60.00 or more 5.00
$60.00 or less 0.00
$60.01 to $99.99 $10.00
$100.00 to $239.99 $15.00
$240.00 or more $20.00
idl Tax rates effective July I, 2013.

A {as upon the use or privileged:parking a motor vehicle in or upon



 

lots or garages. except l?or parking lots and garages in subsection
(BL is herelw imposed at the rate of 3.5% of the charae_or fee paid for
parking. This tax shall not apply charge or fee paid l'or parlgjungm
such 13 arking?s does not exceed $2M0r a ?l-honr period or
less?l 0.00 for a weekly period or $40.00 for a period.

 

 

 

 

 

 

A tax upon the use and privilege ol? parking: 3 Inotnr vehicle in or upon
lots or uaraees owned lw municipalities with populations of
250,090 inhabitants or lessl_i._s_hereby imposed at the rate of 8.50/9 of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 5

charm: or the paid For parking; This tax shall not apply il'the charge or Fee
paid ?l parking in such parking lots or garagesdoes not exceed $3.00 for
a 24?hour period or for a weekly period or $60.00 a
period.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on the
person who seeks the privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking lot or garage.

The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to:

(1) Residential off?street parking of house or apartment or condominium
occupants, wherein an arrangement for parking is provided in the house or
apartment lease in a written agreement between the landlord and tenant;

(2) Residential parking provided for condominium occupants pursuant to a
written agreement between the condominium association and the owner,
occupant or guest of a unit owner, whether the parking charge is payable
to the landlord, condominium association, or to the operator of the parking
lot or garage; or

(3) To hospital and medical center employees parking at a parking lot or
garage where the hospital or medical center is the employer and, as
described in this article, operator.

The amount of the tax due under this article shall be computed exclusive
of any Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed.

Sec. 74-513. - Registration.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall obtain a parking tax certi?cate of
registration from the Department prior to the ?rst date of commencing business.
Application for registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.

Sec. 74-514. Maintenance of records.

It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Director of Revenue shall, at all times, have full access. These
books and records shall include all cash register or other receipts required by this article,
all tickets and voided tags, and a daily sheet for each location showing:

(1) The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage,
segregated on a daily, weekly, or other basis, and also segregated
by the amount of the charge or fee imposed for parking; and

(2) The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking
transactions.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 6

(3) Any other original source documents and books of entry denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability,
exemption or deduction or defense to liability.

All books and records required by this section shall be retained for not less
than four years a?er the end of the calendar year in which they are created; provided,
however, that an operator on an annual basis may request approval from the Director of
Revenue to discard tickets or tags that were issued more than one year earlier, and the
Director shall grant approval if the director determines that the operator's books and
records satisfy the requirements of this article.

Sec. 74-515. - Tickets; tags; receipts.

Daily parker tickets. It shall be the duty of every operator to issue to all
persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on a daily basis a distinctive ticket
in the form and manner provided by this section. Tickets shall be issued by the operator in
numerical sequence.

Daily parker ticket detail. Each ticket issued by an operator shall indicate
the name of the operator and the address of the parking lot or garage upon or in which the
motor vehicle is parked. Unless the parking lot or garage is equipped with an automated
ticket dispenser which triggers the opening of a gate, tickets shall consist of three parts;
one part shall be issued by the operator to the recipient, one part shall be retained by the
operator, who shall indicate on the back thereof the time of arrival and departure of the
motor vehicle, and one pait shall be attached to the parked motor vehicle for the purpose of
identi?cation. All three-part tickets shall contain the same serial number on each part of
the ticket.

(0) Valet parking tickets. All valet parking attendants must, upon taking
custody of a patron's Motor Vehicle, for the purpose of parking such Motor Vehicle in or
upon any Parking Lot or Garage, issue a distinctive ticket in the form and manner provided
by this section, such tickets or receipts shall be issued in numerical sequence.

Valet parking ticket detail. Each ticket issued by the valet parking operator
shall indicate the name, address and telephone number of the company providing the valet
service, the time and date the valet parking operator took custody of the vehicle, and the
license plate number of the vehicle. Prior to returning custody of the vehicle to each
customer the valet parking attendant must time stamp the ticket with the time, date the
valet parking operator surrendered custody of the vehicle, and indicate the amount of tax
paid.

Weekly; parking tags. Every operator shall require a tag to be
attached to each motor vehicle that is permitted to park on a weekly or basis, or
other basis longer than one day. Each tag shall show the name of the operator and address
of the parking lot or garage upon or in which the motor vehicle parked; an identification
number; the number and issuing state of the license plate of the parked motor vehicle; and
whether the motor vehicle is parked on a weekly or or other basis longer than one
day, indicating starting and ending dates of the week, month or other period. Tags shall be
issued by the operator in numerical sequence.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 7

Tag book. The operator shall keep a book record of all tags issued,
showing each tag's date of issuance, identi?cation number and parking charge imposed.
The operator shall remove, or cause to be removed, and shall void each tag at the end of
the week, month or other applicable period, and shall cause a new tag to be attached to the
motor vehicle at the beginning of each new period.

Parking receipts. It shall be the duty of every operator and valet parking
operator to issue a receipt to all persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on
a daily basis. The receipt shall indicate the parking charge paid and the amount oftax paid.
The operator shall maintain records showing the number of motor vehicles parked, the
total charges paid and the amount of tax collected for each range of parking charges
described in,Secti0n 74-512.

Sec. 74-516. - Tax remittance and returns.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall file, on forms prescribed by the
Department, a remittance return and remit all taxes due on or before the 20th day of the
month following the month for which the tax is due. Every operator and valet parking
operator shall ?le a return even when no tax is due.

Sec. 74-517. Fines.

Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, shall be subject
to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the second and each
subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to
exist after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for any person
to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal
prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute
civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as
costs incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-518. - Rules and regulations.

The Director of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this article.

Sec. 74-519. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this
article is silent, the provisions of Chapter 34, Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance, shall apply and supplement this article.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 29, 2013

PAGE 8

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to accept a Proposed Substitute
Ordinance Amendment to Communication No. 323358. The motion was rescinded by

Commissioner Butler and Commissioner Steele, and no action was taken.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, moved to adjourn. The motion
carried and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

No action was taken under Section 2?105(h) of the Cook County Code

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance

9/ 
?u P. Daley, Chairman 

 

 

1/ Mittliew B. DeLeon, Secretary

*The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 436, Chicago, IL 60602.

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on
the Video Page at 
board?video-and?audio/

 

 

