Conservation & Policy Council
April 6, 2015
Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, 12545 W 111th Street, Lemont, IL 60439
1:30 pm to 2:45 pm: Tour of Sagawau Canyon
3 pm to 5 pm: Council Meeting
AGENDA

3:00 pm

1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Public Comment
3. Approval of minutes for 1.20.15 meeting of the council

3:15 pm

4. Presentation by the Nature Committee
a. Setting context: Why restoration is important & what would happen without
it. (Jane Balaban)
b. Top Priorities (John McCabe)
i. Baselines
ii. Mileposts
iii. 2016 budget
iv. where we want to be in 2020
c. Key Questions

4:00 pm



Without broad public support, we will not succeed. How, then, do
we convince the public that healthy, thriving forest preserves are as
important as clearing the snow and other public services?



How do we talk about the need for restoration and expansion so it
resonates with the different constituencies that need to buy into the
plan? How do we hone and deliver our message?



What information do council members need to be effective
ambassadors?

5. Presentation by the Leadership Committee
a. Setting context: Overview of current revenues and expenses for FPCC. (Troy
Alim)
b. Top Priorities (Lenore Beyer-Clow)
i. Baselines
ii. Mileposts
iii. 2016 budget
iv. where we want to be in 2020

1

 c. Key Question


4:45 pm

We know we need to raise significant resources. How do we make
the case that this work is important and build the widespread
support needed to ensure success?

6. Election of Vice Chair and Secretary (Falona for VC, Mark for Secretary)
7. Review and approval of amended operating guidelines (See Attachment B.)
8. Interest in individual/group fieldtrips (Cathy Geraghty)

5:00 pm

9. Adjourn

Attachments
A. Minutes for the January 20, 2015 meeting of the Conservation & Policy Council
B. Proposed Revision to Operating Guidelines
C. Natural & Cultural Resources Master Plan executive summary
D. Council Member Terms
E. Calendar of Upcoming Meetings/Events
F. Readings/Media clips

2

 Directions and Map
Sagawau Environmental Learning Center


Location details from fpdcc.com: 12545 W. 111th Street, Lemont, IL 60439. “100 yards east of
Archer Ave, or four miles west of Swallow Cliff Sledding Hill on Rt. 83.”



From the North, take Kingery Rd (IL-83)/ Archer Ave (IL-171) south. Turn left at 111th St
/Calumet Sag Road(IL-83 South). The parking lot is located on the left, 100 yards east of Archer
Avenue



From LaGrange Rd/96th Ave (US-45), take the IL-83/Calumet Sag Rd exit. Turn left at the stop
sign and travel west approximately four miles on Calumet Sag Rd. The parking lot entrance is
located on the right.



From Lemont, take Main St east, continuing on 111th St (IL-83) for approximately 3 miles. The
parking lot is located on the left, 100 yards east of Archer Avenue.



From Chicago, take the I-55/Stevenson Expressway to Exit 274 (IL-83/Kingery Road
South). Travel south on IL-83 (Kingery Rd)/IL-171 (Archer Ave) for approximately 4
miles. Turn left at 111th St /Calumet Sag Road(IL-83 South). The parking lot is located on the
left, 100 yards east of Archer Avenue.



From I-355 (Veterans Memorial Tollway), take the 127th St exit. Travel east on 127th street for
approximately 2.5 miles and turn left on IL-171 /S. Archer Ave. Continue north on Archer for 3
miles. Turn right at 111th St (IL-83 South/Calumet Sag Road). The parking lot is located on the
left, 100 yards east of Archer Avenue.

3

 Attachment A: Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2015

The Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Advisory Council
January 20, 2015

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 3 pm. The following council
members and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, chair
Commissioner Robert Steele
Dr. Sylvia Jenkins
Falona Joy
Laurel Ross
Linda Mastandrea
Mark Templeton
Michael De Santiago
Peter Ellis
Robert Castaneda
Terry Guen

Forest Preserve Staff
Amanda Grant
Anthony Tindall
Arnold Randall
Cathy Geraghty
Cynthia Moreno
Daniel Betts
Dennis White
Eileen Figel
Erik Varela
John McCabe
Lisa Lee
Lydia Uhlir
Mary Pat Cross
Stephen Hughes

Partners
Benjamin Cox (FOTFP)
Daniel Saurez (Volunteer)
Emily Harris (Harris Strategies)
Ginny Hotaling (CBG)
Gregory Mueller (CBG)
Lenore Beyer-Clow (Openlands)
Rebecca Sanders (Audubon)
Richard Gamble (CZS)
Shelley Davis (FP Foundation)

Public Comments. There were no comments from the public.
Overview of the Forest Preserves of Cook County and the Next Century Conservation Plan (NCCP).
General Superintendent Arnold Randall presented an overview of the district and the NCCP.
Testimonial. Daniel Suarez of Audubon Chicago and a long-time volunteer with the forest preserves
discussed how and why he got involved as a volunteer. He stated, “Growing up, nature was not on my
radar. Nature seemed to be an “other” place—not something accessible to me.” As a teenager, Suarez
volunteered for a workday along the North Branch and has been deeply committed to restoration
efforts ever since.
Implementation Strategy and Council Responsibilities. Deputy Superintendent Eileen Figel provided an
overview of the process and strategy which is being used to implement the plan and the role of the
council in guiding these efforts.

A-1

 Challenges and Opportunities. Wendy Paulson asked members of the council to share what they see as
challenges and opportunities related to the plan. These include:
CHALLENGES
Don’t get stuck on dollars needed; we have lots of
other resources (people, partners, etc.)
We need to look at the forest preserves as a whole;
don’t allow one site to compete against another.
What is the message and who do we need to get it
to? How will we use technology to connect to
urbanites and get them out here?
What will kids get excited about? Land restoration
is a primary goal, but will these kids respond to
that? How do we get to under-represented
communities?
Need to retain sense of urgency.

Is the County Board behind this? Commissioner
Steele stated that many of them are users of the
Forest Preserves and indicated he will be an
advocate within the board AND will be a national
advocate to get more resources here. Ginny
Hotaling suggested a regular update at the Cook
County Board meeting.
Cynthia explained to the People Committee how we
got here; that might be helpful to council.

OPPORTUNITIES
Thousands of volunteers.
Council members have lots of connections; we
can pull in more partners.
We must get the house in order and protect
the preserves, but also think about how we
reach back and bring the model of conservation
into the city.
How will you track the improved accessibility
for people with disabilities?

The council can help with the “call to action.”
What are we asking partners to do? What are
we asking the public to do? We have very
specific ideas under each of the four pillars
which we can measure against.
Setting the bar high is important; if you don’t
set it high, you will never get there. What
makes it realistic is that we have 25 years to get
it done and people want to be part of the
winning team that gets it done.

The plan is grand; we must look for synergies.
Think about who is taking on responsibility for
getting this done.

Council Operations & Resources. Cathy Geraghty presented the operating guidelines for the council
and provided an overview of the resources included in their binder.
Adjournment. The meeting was adjourned at 5 p.m.

A-2

 Attachment B: Proposed Revision to Operating Guidelines

Conservation and Policy Council
Operating Guidelines
GENERAL
The Next Century Conservation Plan (adopted February 18, 2014) of the Forest Preserves of Cook County
called for creation of a Forest Preserves Conservation and Policy Council (Council) that consists of experts
and leaders in the fields that impact the Forest Preserves’ mission, services and policies.
The main charge of the Council is to advise the President, Board of Commissioners and General
Superintendent on specific steps to implement the Next Century Conservation Plan’s vision of a vibrant,
ecologically healthy and welcoming forest preserves system that contributes to the quality of life and
prosperity of Cook County over the long term.
MISSION STATEMENT
The mission of the Conservation and Policy Council (Council) is to provide continuous conservation
leadership and expertise to the President, Board of Commissioners, and General Superintendent of the Forest
Preserves of Cook County, consistent with the vision, goals and priorities of the Next Century Conservation
Plan adopted by the Forest Preserves of Cook County Board of Commissioners on February 18, 2014.
ONGOING TASKS
The Council shall do, but not be limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the Next
Century Conservation Plan and annually recommend adoption of the updated strategic and financial
plan to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners;
2. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about the annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about conservation policies and practices;
4. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
commissioners about opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources to accomplish
conservation goals and initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and conservation
leadership.

B-1

 GUIDELINES, PROCEDURES, and PRACTICES
MEMBERS
A. General: The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be reimbursed
for actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Council.
B. Number of Members: There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex-Officio Member of the Board of Commissioners appointed by the President (who shall
be a voting member) (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
C. Officers: The Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers, which will include a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, and a Secretary. The Chairperson shall be appointed by the President.
The Vice Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the Council. Each of the three officers, respectively,
shall be entitled to vote on all matters before the Council and may be appointed to serve successive terms
as officers.
D. Duties of Officers (with support from forest preserves staff):
1. The Chairperson shall:
a.

Preside at all meetings, when present;

b. Execute all documents relating to Council policy or designate such responsibility as
warranted;
c. Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
d. Perform other agenda duties as directed by the Conservation Council.
2. The Vice-Chairperson shall:
a.

Act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence;

b. In the event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice Chairperson shall
succeed to this office for the unexpired term or until the President brings forth another
appointment; and
c. Perform other agenda duties as directed by the Chairperson or the Conservation
Council.
3. The Secretary shall:
a.

Maintain the Council records, including notices for, and minutes of, meetings and
hearings; the minutes must include: the date/time/place; absent/present members; and a
summary of discussion, including votes. Final (not draft) minutes must be made
available within seven days of approval; and
B-2

 b. Minutes must be approved within 30 days after an open meeting or at the second
subsequent regular meeting, whichever is later.
c. Perform other agenda duties as directed by the Conservation Council.
MEETINGS
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Conservation Council. Thereafter, the Members shall
prescribe the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special meetings
may be called.
B. The Council shall meet as frequently as needed, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be held
annually.
C. The Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.
D. The Council shall comply with the Open Meetings Act.
1. Any person who becomes an elected or appointed member of a public body subject to the Open
Meetings Act after January 1, 2012, must complete the electronic training no later than the 90th
day after taking the oath of office or, if not required to take an oath of office, after otherwise
assuming responsibilities as a member of the public body.
2. Elected or appointed members need not complete the electronic training on an annual basis
thereafter unless they are also designated to receive training on compliance with the Open
Meetings Act.
3. The Public Access Counselor’s Office’s OMA electronic training is available free of charge at:
http://foia.ilattorneygeneral.net/electronic_foia_training.aspx .”
4. If more than three (3) Council members meet (either in person, by phone or video-conference)
at the same time to discuss the Council’s business, the Open Meetings Act must be followed.
5. The Council must provide a written notice at least 48 hours prior to the convening of a meeting.
The “48-Hour Notice” must contain the time, date, location and, to the extent known, the
agenda of the meeting.
E. The Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as well as the Freedom of Information Act.
F. The Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County’s website.
G. Public Comment
1. A total of up to 15 minutes will be allowed for public comment, immediately following
introductions and attendance.
2. Speakers will be granted no more than three (3) minutes to address agenda items or to make
general comments. At the discretion of the Chair, speaking time may be reduced to one (1) or
two (2) minutes per speaker and the Chair may opt to move speakers to later slot on the agenda.

B-3

 3. Speakers must sign in at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting with a designated staff
member.
4. The Chairperson may cut off a comment if it is irrelevant, repetitious, or disruptive.
VOTING PROCEDURES
A. A majority (6) of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Council shall
require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members of the Council present and voting at the
meeting at which the action is taken.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT
A. No member of the Council shall derive any personal profit or gain, directly or indirectly, by reason of his
or her participation with the Council. Each Council member shall disclose to the Council any personal
interest which he or she may have – or thinks they may have – in any matter pending before the Council
and shall refrain from participation in any decision on such matter.
Any member of the Council who is an officer, board member, a committee member or staff member of
the Chicago Botanic Garden or the Chicago Zoological Society, or any organization that receives more
than $1 million annually in funding from the Forest Preserves budget, shall identify his or her affiliation;
further, in connection with when discussing any Council action specifically directed to that agency,
including the annual Forest Preserve budget recommendation, he/she shall not participate in the decision
affecting that agency.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The Council shall submit to the General Superintendent, the Board of Commissioners and the President
an annual report prior to the end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which may
be necessary to carry out the mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to conservation
issues.
CHANGES TO OPERATING GUIDELINES
A. The Council may make changes to these guidelines as it deems appropriate to the performance its
responsibilities.

B-4

 Attachment C: Natural & Cultural Resources Master Plan

In March 2015, the Forest Preserves of Cook County released the Natural and Cultural Resources Master
Plan. The plan focuses on conserving natural and cultural resources in concert with each other, and on
both the people who are doing that work and those who benefit from it. Effective conservation requires
understanding those resources; understanding the “place” or context in which they are found; and
understanding the history, traditions, values, and attitudes of the people living in that place. Ultimately
it depends on a shared understanding of the problems facing the region and a shared commitment to
improving the conditions for the people, plants, and animals living there.
The 2014 Next Century Conservation Plan for the Forest Preserves of Cook County offers an ambitious
vision for expanding the preserves and restoring the native landscapes they contain. The Natural and
Cultural Resources Master Plan aims to provide the guidance needed to implement the Next Century
Conservation Plan’s natural resource goals. It also provides a natural and cultural resources framework
for future land acquisition, recreation development, and capital improvement.
The full plan is available on-line at http://fpdcc.com/preserves-and-trails/plans-and-projects/naturaland-cultural-resources-master-plan/. Hard copies of the plan will be distributed to the council at the
April 6 meeting.

Attachment D: Conservation & Policy Council Member Terms
(As selected by staw poll on January 20, 2015.)
1 Year
Term expires 1/20/16.
Falona Joy
Michael DeSantiago
Rob Castaneda

2 Years
Term expires 1/20/17.
Peter Ellis
Sylvia Jenkins
Terry Guen

3 Years
Term expires 1/20/18.
Wendy Paulson (chair)
Robert Steele (ex-officio)
Laurel Ross
Linda Mastandrea
Mark Templeton

Please note members may be nominated to serve additional terms.

C/D - 1

 Attachment E: Calendar of Upcoming Meetings/Events
For a full list of current meetings, see http://www.nextcenturyconservationplan.org/implementation/
Mon Apr 6 3:00pm– 5:00pm
1:30pm – 2:45 pm (pre-meeting
tour of Sagawau canyon)
3 pm – 5 pm (meeting)

Conservation & Policy Council
Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, 12545 W 111th Street,
Lemont, IL 60439

Mon Apr 13 11:00am – 1:00pm

NCCP - Nature Committee Meeting - Openlands - 25 East
Washington Street, Suite 1650, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - Leadership Committee Meeting - 69 W. Washington, 20th
Floor, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - People Committee Meeting - 536 N Harlem Ave, River
Forest, IL 60305, United States (Museum Room)
NCCP Economics Committee April Monthly Meeting - 69 W.
Washington, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - Leadership Committee Meeting - 69 W. Washington, 20th
Floor, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - Nature Committee Meeting - Brookfield Zoo - Discovery
Center Founders Room - 8400 West 31st Street, Brookfield, IL
NCCP - People Committee Meeting - 536 N Harlem Ave, River
Forest, IL 60305, United States (Museum Room)
FPCC Centennial Symposium & Tour – Celebrating 100 Years of
Beauty in the Forest Preserves, DePaul University Student Center,
2400 N. Sheffield, Room 314, Chicago
NCCP Economics Committee May Monthly Meeting - 69 W.
Washington, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - Nature Committee Meeting - Chicago Botanic Garden - 1000
Lake Cook Road, Glencoe, IL 60022
NCCP - Leadership Committee Meeting - 69 W. Washington, 20th
Floor, Chicago, IL 60602
Conservation & Policy Council Meeting
Crabtree Nature Center, 3 Stover Road, Barrington Hills, IL 60010

Tue Apr 21 12:00pm – 1:30pm
Tue Apr 21 1:00pm – 3:00pm
Fri Apr 24 3:00pm – 4:30pm
Tue May 12 12:00pm – 1:30pm
Wed May 13 11:00am – 1:00pm
Tue May 19 1:00pm – 3:00pm
Thurs May 28 9 am – 5 pm
and
Fri May 29 9 am to 4 pm
Fri May 29 3:00pm – 4:30pm
Thu Jun 11 11:00am – 1:00pm
Tue Jun 16 12:00pm – 1:30pm
Tue Jun 23
1:30pm – 2:45pm (pre-meeting
visit to Galloping Hill/Spring
Creek Forest Preserve)
3:00pm – 5:00pm (meeting)
Fri Jun 26 3:00pm – 4:30pm
Tue Jul 14 12:00pm – 1:30pm
Fri Jul 31 3:00pm – 4:30pm
Thu Sept 10
1:30pm – 2:30pm (pre-meeting
visit to Powderhorn for seed
collecting)
3:00pm – 5:00pm (meeting)

Forest Preserve NCCP Economics Committee June Monthly Meeting
- 69 W. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602
NCCP - Leadership Committee Meeting - 69 W. Washington, 20th
Floor, Chicago, IL 60602
Forest Preserve NCCP Economics Committee July Monthly Meeting 69 W. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602
Conservation & Policy Council Meeting
Sand Ridge Nature Center, 15891 Paxton Ave, South Holland, IL
60473

E-1

 Attachment F: Media clips

Nature in the City: Wildlife Returns to Greater Chicago
by Earth Island Journal, March 3, 2015 ▪ Written by Jason Halm
http://www.care2.com/causes/nature-in-the-city-wildlife-returns-to-greater-chicago.html

A cougar prowls wooded ravines in a wealthy community, searching for a mate. A coyote slinks
through a human-built landscape on its way to its den outside one of the country’s largest football
stadiums. Out in the chain of lakes, a recreational boating area, a plant biologist finds lotus plants
blooming for the first time in generations. Further still from the city, a black bear wanders cornfields,
seeking a home.
Thirty years ago, this was all improbable — perhaps impossible. Now, wildlife is returning to the
shores of the Great Lakes, even into the heart of the great city of Chicago. Although it’s home to
nearly 10 million people, greater Chicagoland also houses more wildlife than at any time in recent
history. The city and its suburbs are being rewilded.
Ecological impoverishment has a long and sad history in this country, including the greater Chicago
region. When white settlers first arrived in the Great Lakes region, the area had an abundance of
deer, coyote, fox, otter, beaver, and a smattering of bobcats, wolves, and elk, too. In the early
nineteenth century, there was more than enough wildlife; settlers could trap beaver, muskrat, and
otter for fur, go hunting for sport, and have more than enough to feed themselves. In time, though,
the city and its hinterland swelled in population, with little to no change in the every man for himself
hunting policy. By the turn of the last century, white-tailed deer, by far the most abundant large
animal here, was extirpated in the region.

F-1

 But now the pendulum is swinging back toward ecological health. In the absence of any real
predator, deer have overpopulated the area. In 1957, the first modern, regulated hunting season for
the animal began. By the 1990’s, the deer had so capitalized on the available habitat and lack of
predators that professional culling became necessary, though controversial.
It seemed, for a bit, that Chicago area residents had only to deal with the deer. Then the coyotes
started to appear.
In 2000 the Urban Coyote Research program began to study the increasing reports of coyote
sightings in suburban Dundee, located northwest of the city center. The project has since evolved
into a full-fledged monitoring of the Chicagoland coyote population. Unbeknownst to researcher Stan
Gehrt when he started, there are more than 2,000 coyotes living in metropolitan Chicago.
Reasons for the coyote’s success are multifaceted. An urban environment presents an escape from
hunting pressures typically found in rural areas. The city also provides an incredible amount of food
waste that can be exploited — as well as a surprising amount of shelter, including, for one coyote in
the summer 2010, the chill of an air-conditioned Quizno’s.
Coyotes are currently the apex predator in Illinois, in contrast to their pre-settlement role as a
mesopredator one notch below wolves. The coyotes have enjoyed the benefits of a phenomena
known as “mesopredator release,” in which a smaller predator that has stopped being preyed upon
by a larger predator has less pressure on its population. In turn, the coyote has become physically
larger in urban areas, and is able to hunt basically without fear of being hunted.
But coyotes may not enjoy free reign at the top of the food chain for long. Cougars are also making a
tentative comeback in the region. In 2008, a mountain lion was shot in a Chicago neighborhood,
right next to a preschool. Since 2002, there have been at least four shootings of mountain lions in
Illinois. Along the wealthy North Shore, an area that boasts an extensive network of forested ravines
and Lake Michigan shoreline, rumors of mountain lion sightings pop up every year. Most of these are
probably common house cats mistaken for mountain lions, and there are likely mistaken bobcat
sightings as well. Bobcats have also surged in population in recent decades.
A lot of this wildlife comeback is attributable to the fact that greater Chicagoland — however
urbanized and industrialized it is — actually has a significant amount of habitat capable of supporting
coyotes, bobcats, deer, otters (and maybe one day, bears, cougars, and wolves, as well). In the
early part of the last century, city residents began to escape to the newly constructed suburbs,
emboldened by the popularity of the railroads and the new automobile. It was around this time that
Forest Preserve Districts — a peculiar political institution dedicated to preserving open space on a
county-wide scale — were established.
The Cook County District, sharing territory with the city of Chicago, was established in 1916 with 500
acres of land. Today, the District preserves 69,000 acres, or 11 percent, of the county. In the region

F-2

 as a whole — from southwestern Michigan to southeastern Wisconsin —some 500,000 acres of
forest and prairie are preserved in some fashion.
What is being done with these protected areas is the remarkable story of Chicago conservation. In
the 1970’s, volunteers began doing work along the North Branch of the Chicago River, restoring the
natural vegetation by removing overgrown brush and replanting prairie and savanna vegetation.
Since then, bird species have come back in troves. Sandhill cranes and bluebirds now nest
throughout the area, and whooping cranes fly over every year.
The movement to restore Chicagoland’s native prairie vegetation is successful in no small part due
to its volunteer-based nature. On almost any given weekend, volunteers are busy across the region
clearing garbage from streams, ripping overgrown buckthorn from forests, and removing invasive
species from riverbanks. These weekend events, though still niche in the area, are becoming more
and more commonplace — symptomatic, perhaps, of a culture growing into its home. There is the
Illinois Mycological Association, the Illinois Native Plants Society, Chicago Wilderness, park and
forest preserve districts the region over, and a few highly successful land trusts throughout the area,
all working hard to create conditions amiable to native flora and fauna.
The efforts range from fairly easy work — cutting out invasive white and yellow sweet clover with
machetes — to more sophisticated endeavors such as restoring meanders back to channelized
prairie streams and, during the spring and fall, conducting lots of prescribed prairie burns. The
people involved range from high schoolers to retirees, and many work in sectors unrelated to the
work at hand.
Tangible successes have come from all of these efforts. Riverfront views have opened up for the
public, erosion has been lessened as agricultural fields are converted to second-growth prairies, and
lotus plants have begun to bloom in Chain of Lakes state park,
In the last decade, rewilding has become one of the most potent ideas in the conservation
movement, a way to pivot from simply preserving wild landscapes to restoring them. But for the
Chicago wilderness community it has become more than an intellectual exercise in imagining
thousand-mile long corridors with species brought back from extinction. To those of us who make
our home in the Chicago area, rewilding is the act of rooting down in this community, branching out
to each other to make our homes beautiful and to honor the past — and hoping that one day, Bear
and Cougar and Otter and Whooping Crane also come around to see what we’ve built for them.
This post originally appeared in Earth Island Journal.

F-3

 City in a Garden - Conservation
Chicago’s aesthetically challenged seal and prescient motto
By Curt Meine
http://conservationmagazine.org/2014/03/citygarden/?utm_source=Conservation+Magazine&utm_campaign=047b3b4adeThis_Week_s_Good_Read_Nov+30_2013_10_19_2013&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_d0cc46f2ab047b3b4ade-

On March 4, 1837, the Illinois legislature approved Chicago’s proposal for incorporation, and the
lakeside village of 4,170 souls officially became a city. That June, the city adopted its official seal,
one of those wonderfully cluttered montages of symbols that nineteenth-century Americans did so
well: in the center, a sheaf of wheat against a federal shield of red, white, and blue, indicative of the
Midwest’s fruitful land; to one side, a tomahawk-wielding figure representing the native inhabitants of
the land; on the other side, a ship (presumably bearing European immigrants) heaving across Lake
Michigan toward its western shore; and, floating overhead, a sleeping babe borne on a cloud and
representing the newborn city reposing in peace and purity. The cloud was later upgraded to a large
shell, Chicago being (natch) the pearl of the Great Lakes.
At the bottom of the seal, a ribbon is inscribed with the city’s motto: “URBS IN HORTO,” Latin for
“City in a Garden.” One interpretation holds that this reflected an appeal from the city’s first mayor,
William Ogden. Shortly after he became mayor in those busy months of 1837, the nation fell into a
financial panic. Ogden paid off the city’s debts by taking out personal loans and paying the bills. He
also encouraged his fellow Chicagoans to plant their own gardens in the city’s open plots and
peripheral fields—a sort of frontier hedge fund!
A more widely held interpretation is that the motto captured the vital vision of the city’s founders, of
their fair new city held in the fresh bosom of its rich, supporting hinterlands. Did they see
those hortus lands beyond the city boundaries as Illinois tallgrass prairie flowering forth with its 850
species of native plants, rife with mammals large and small, birds and reptiles, frogs and bugs, with
rich soils and abundant freshwaters? Or did they see those lands as what they might, and did,
become: “futures,” the agricultural cornucopia, the mid-continental empire of grain and meat?
I don’t know whether minutes were kept at the meeting of the 1837 ad hoc committee on a Chicago
city seal and motto. Whatever the committee’s view, I can’t help but think that the motto expressed
what must have been a common and visceral sense of the land’s raw, organic fertility, built
throughout 12 postglacial millennia by the land’s soil-building, moisture-retaining, nitrogen-sucking,
carbon-holding plants and its pollinating, grazing, seed-dispersing, nutrient-shuffling, and predatory
animals. Chicago was to become an urban community bubbling away at the top of what Aldo
Leopold described as the land’s “fountain of energy flowing through a circuit of soils, plants, and
animals.” However the new city-dwellers and their country cousins might reconfigure the plumbing of
that energy fountain, however short-sighted or visionary the efforts of ensuing generations to
conserve its flow, the motto declared Chicago to be a city grounded in a place. It gave the city a

F-4

 stake in the land, as did the city’s very name: the Miami’s chicagoua or chigagou (for the native wild
garlic, Allium tricoccum), the Potawatomi’schicago. The motto and those smelly garlics may not be
as dramatic as the wild she-wolf suckling Romulus and Remus along Rome’s River Tiber, but they
still serve to remind us of the city’s—of every city’s—rootage in the land, and in older cultures on the
land.
Fast-forward 75 years, to 1914. In just three generations, Chicago’s population had grown 500-fold,
to more than 2 million. The expanding urbs had encroached relentlessly upon the hortus, not only in
the immediate shadows of the rising skyscrapers but also across the vast prairies, northern forests,
and extensive wetlands of the entire mid-continent. The result was a landscape, urban and rural
together, transformed—a story told so compellingly by William Cronon in Nature’s Metropolis:
Chicago and the Great West. That year the citizens of Cook County approved a measure to
establish a “forest preserve district” that encompassed the entire county. Envisioning something far
beyond the idea of urban parks, the measure authorized the district
to acquire . . . and hold lands . . . containing one or more natural forests . . . or lands connecting
such forests or parts thereof . . . for the purpose of protecting and preserving the flora, fauna and
scenic beauties within such district, and to restore, restock, protect, and preserve the natural forests
and such lands together with their flora and fauna, as nearly as may be, in their natural state and
condition, for the purpose of the education, pleasure, and recreation of the public.
As the Encyclopedia of Chicago explains, “No similar preserves existed anywhere in the world at the
time, but architect Dwight Perkins, the principal proponent of the preserve idea, believed that the
preservation of nature would have important value for life in a growing metropolis.” The claim is
somewhat chauvinistic, for Cook County’s forest preserve district was inspired by other efforts—
including Boston’s in the 1890s to protect portions of its outer lands in parks. Nonetheless, the
people of North America’s great Midwestern urbs were taking a revolutionary step to conserve
the hortus in which it was embedded. As Perkins and his compatriots in Chicago’s Municipal Science
Club had stated, Cook County’s special lands “should be preserved for the benefit of the public in
both the city and its suburbs, and for their own sake and scientific value, which, if ever lost, cannot
be restored for generations.”
Fast-forward another century, as we mark the centennial of Cook County’s Forest Preserve District.
The population of the city proper holds at around 2.7 million, while the larger metropolitan region is
now home to 9.5 million. The preserves that were once on the urban fringe are now themselves
embedded, forming an emerald chain through the developed urban and suburban landscape.
The urbs leap-frogged the close-by hortus, while the greater hortus of the Midwest agricultural
landscape has been transformed into a severely cultivated and highly profitable but biologically
depauperate desertus. The redirected fountain of energy now overfloweth into corn and soybeans,
feedlots and muck farms, corporate boardrooms
and the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade.
But another transformation also occurred along the way. Over its century of existence, the district’s
green network of forest, savanna, prairie, wetlands, streams, and lakes grew to embrace about
68,000 acres (275 km²) of open space within the Chicago region. Surrounding counties followed

F-5

 Cook County’s example and undertook their own land-protection efforts. But in the absence of fire,
grazing, and other disturbances, plant succession had its way: shrubs and trees spread into the
open prairies and filled in the understories of the savannas and woodlands. The fragmented district
lands had no defense against the surge of invasive plant and animal species—and no response.
White-tailed deer disappeared, then returned, then proliferated, browsing their way down the list of
palatable plant species (and into suburban lawns and gardens). At the interface of the urbs and
the hortus, dramatic ecological change came constantly to the “natural forests and said lands.”
Beginning in the 1970s, Chicago-area citizen-conservationists returned to the forest preserves with a
different understanding of land stewardship. An ecological restoration movement took root. People of
the urbs took to the hortus with a new appreciation of the avium (roughly, the wild). The city and its
rippling economy had altered forever the wild woodlands, savannas, prairies, wetlands, and
waterways of the hinterlands. But in the city, and across the hinterlands, restorationists sought new
ways to integrate the urbs, the hortus, and the avium.
This dirt-under-the-fingernails restoration work did not only yield revitalized prairies and oak groves,
but it also provided the basis for a far-sighted experiment in urban conservation. In the mid-1990s,
the Brookfield Zoo, the Field Museum, the Openlands Project, and The Nature Conservancy—plus
other civic organizations and institutions and local, state, and federal agencies—banded together to
form a new conservation consortium. They christened it, provocatively, Chicago Wilderness. Now
comprising some 300 member groups from across the entire Chicago metropolitan region, Chicago
Wilderness is dedicated to protecting and restoring the region’s biological diversity and ecological
health and to reconnecting the city’s people to their landscape. The name that seemed oxymoronic
to some now seems like almost a dare—an ongoing challenge to our conservation ideas, policies,
and practice. Through Chicago Wilderness, the city provides a model of new ways to honor the wild
amid the urban, to enrich the urban amid the wild, and to keep them connected, in more fruitful and
durable ways.
For all of human history, the story of our species’ cultural development has emphasized the
conversion of wild landscapes to agriculture, the movement of people into cities, the rise of industry
and the globalization of trade, the intensification, mechanization, and corporatization of farming, the
continual spread of cities and suburbs into the rural countryside and up against the wild. Chicago
has exemplified, on a dramatically condensed time scale, that saga. But Chicago’s history and
geography and culture—its time and place and people—also allowed it to emerge from that story
with the intimation of a radically revised trajectory. The city now acts to protect, restore, and sustain
something of its natural inheritance, its layers of post-glacial, prehistoric Woodland Period, Miami
and Potawatomi, and European frontier nature. It now benefits (as communities large and small
increasingly do) from a new agrarian movement that recovers connections to land through food, in
the city and beyond. In so doing, Chicago aims to conserve the foundations on which it was built, the
fountain from which its wealth and health have flowed.
And so, on a planet whose growing human population is increasingly urbanized, we might consider
revising and extending Chicago’s motto as an example to the world: Urbs in horto … hortus in
avio . . . avium in universo (i.e., the cosmos). We might see the city anew, not only as a human
community but as a place within its place. We might aspire to complete the circle that Chicago’s

F-6

 founders began to trace in 1847: to re-place the city within the cosmos and to find the cosmos within
ourselves; to find some greater harmony across our landscapes, within and far beyond the cities and
at every place in between.
___________
Curt Meine is senior fellow with the Center for Humans and Nature and the Aldo Leopold
Foundation, research associate with the International Crane Foundation, and associate adjunct
professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He is editor of the collection Aldo Leopold: A
Sand County Almanac & Other Writings on Ecology and Conservation, published in 2013 by the
Library of America. This essay is part of a commentary series for the Center for Humans and Nature.
Photo ©Andrea Lipinski

F-7

 THE RIGHT TO A WALK IN THE WOODS: Children’s
connection to the natural world should be considered a
human right
By Richard Louv on January 19th, 2015; The New Nature Movement: Field Notes from the Future:
Tracking the Movement to Connect People and Nature

About the Author
Richard Louv is Co-Founder and Chairman Emeritus of the Children & Nature Network, an organization
supporting the international movement to connect children, their families and their communities to the
natural world. He is the author of eight books, including "Last Child in the Woods: Saving Our Children
from Nature-Deficit Disorder" and "The Nature Principle." In 2008, he was awarded the Audubon
Medal.
This essay originally appeared as “A Walk in the Woods” in the March/April 2009 issue
of Orion magazine. In 2011, it was adapted and expanded in Richard Louv’s book, “The Nature
Principle.”

A

few years ago, I visited Southwood Elementary, the grade school I attended when I was a boy

growing up in Raytown, Missouri. I asked a classroom of children about their relationship with nature.
Many of them offered the now-typical response: they preferred playing video games; they favored
indoor activities—and when they were outside, they played soccer or some other adult-organized sport.
But one fifth-grader, described by her teacher as “our little poet,” wearing a plain print dress and an
intensely serious expression, said, “When I’m in the woods, I feel like I’m in my mother’s shoes.”
To her, nature represented beauty, refuge, and something else.
“It’s so peaceful out there and the air smells so good. For me, it’s completely different there,” she said.
“It’s your own time. Sometimes I go there when I’m mad—and then, just with the peacefulness, I’m
better. I can come back home happy, and my mom doesn’t even know why.”
She paused.
“I had a place. There was a big waterfall and a creek on one side of it,” she said. “I’d dug a big hole
there, and sometimes I’d take a tent back there, or a blanket, and just lay down in the hole, and look u p
at the trees and sky. Sometimes I’d fall asleep back in there. I just felt free; it was like my place, and I
could do what I wanted, with nobody to stop me. I used to go down there almost every day.” The young
poet’s face flushed. Her voice thickened. “And then they just cut the woods down. It was like they cut
down part of me.”
I was struck by her last comment: “It was like they cut down part of me.” If E. O. Wilson’s biophilia
hypothesis is right—that human beings are hard-wired to get their hands wet and their feet muddy in the
natural world—then the little poet’s heartfelt statement was more than metaphor. When she referred to
her woods as “part of me,” she was describing something impossible to quantify: her primal biology, her
sense of wonder, an essential part of her self.

F-8

 Recently I began asking friends this question: Does a child have a right to a walk in the
woods? Does an adult? To my surprise, several people responded with puzzled
ambivalence. Look at what our species is doing to the planet, the y said; based on that
evidence alone, isn’t the relationship between human beings and nature inherently
oppositional? I certainly understand that point of view.
But consider the echo from folks who reside at another point on the political/cultural spectrum , where
nature is the object of human dominion, a distraction on the way to Paradise. In practice, these two
views of nature are radically different. Yet, on one level, the similarity is striking: nature remains the
“other.” Humans are in it, but not of it.

T

he basic concept of rights made some people uncomfortable. One friend asked, In a world in which

millions of children are brutalized every day, can we spare time to forward a child’s right to experience
nature? Good question. Others pointed out that we live in an era of litigation inflation and rights
deflation; too many people believe they have a “right” to a parking spot, a “right” to cable TV, even a
“right” to live in a neighborhood that bans children. Do we really need to add more “rights” to our
catalogue of entitlements? Another good question.
The answer to both questions is yes, if we can agree that the right at issue is fundamental to our
humanity, to our being.
A growing body of scientific evidence identifies strong correlations between experien ce in the natural
world and children’s ability to learn, along with their physical and emotional health. Stress levels,
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, cognitive functioning—and more—are positively affected by
time spent in nature. “In the same way that protecting water and protecting air are strategies for
promoting public health,” says Howard Frumkin, director of the National Center for Environmental
Health at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [now Dean of the School of Public Healt h at
the University of Washington], “protecting natural landscapes can be seen as a powerful form of
preventive medicine.” For example, researchers at Indiana University School of Medicine, Indiana
University–Purdue University at Indianapolis, and the University of Washington reported that greener
neighborhoods are associated with slower increases in children’s body mass, regardless of residential
density. Such research will be immensely helpful as we rethink our approaches to urban design,
education, and health care, in particular our societal response to childhood obesity.
Yes, we need more research, says Frumkin, “but we know enough to act.” To reverse the trends that
disconnect children from nature, actions must be grounded in science, but also rooted in deeper earth.
In 2007, the National Forum on Children and Nature, an impressive collection of mayors, professors,
conservationists, and business leaders, met in Washington DC to explore the disconnection between
children and nature. The conversation was enlightening, at times passionate, but as the hours passed
several of the attendees began to ask about quantification. Some were looking for a business model to
apply to the challenge of introducing children to the natural world. Most saw the obvious need for more
research. “I appreciate this discussion, but I’d like to say something,” announced Gerald L. Durley,
Senior Pastor at Providence Missionary Baptist Church in Atlanta. Durley had helped found the Afro American Cultural Organization and worked shoulder to shoulder with Martin Luther King Jr. He leaned
forward and said, “A movement moves. It has life.”

F-9

 Like every successful movement, the civil rights struggle was fueled by a strongly
articulated moral principle, one that did not need to be proved agai n and again.
The outcome of the civil rights movement might have been quite different, or at least delayed, had its
leaders waited for more statistical proof to justify their cause, or focused on the metrics of lunch -counter
sit-ins, Durley added. Some efforts proved successful, some were counterproductive. But the movement
moved.
“When making a moral argument, there are no hard and fast rules, and such arguments can always be
contended,” according to my friend Larry Hinman, professor of philosophy at the U niversity of San
Diego. “But most moral arguments are made based on one or two points. These include a set of
consequences and a first principle— for example, respect for human rights.” Science sheds light on the
measurable consequences of introducing children to nature; studies pointing to health and cognition
benefits are immediate and concrete. We also need to articulate the underlying “first principle” —one
that emerges not only from what science can prove, but also from what it cannot fully reveal; one that
resists codification because it is so elemental: a meaningful connection to the natural world is
fundamental to our survival and spirit, as individuals and as a species.

I

n our time, Thomas Berry presented this inseparability most eloquently. A Cathol ic priest of the

Passionist order and founder of the History of Religions Program at Fordham University and the
Riverdale Center of Religious Research, for the better part of his ninety-four years on the planet Berry
was prescient.
Berry incorporated Wilson’s biological view within a wider, cosmological context. In his book The
Great Work, he wrote: “The present urgency is to begin thinking within the context of the whole planet,
the integral Earth community with all its human and other-than-human components. When we discuss
ethics we must understand it to mean the principles and values that govern that comprehensive
community.”
The natural world is the physical manifestation of the divine, Berry believed. The survival of both
religion and science depends not on one winning (because then both would lose), but on the emergence
of what he calls a third story, a twenty- first-century story. Speaking of absolutes may make us
uncomfortable, but surely this is true: As a society, we need to give nature back to our kids. Not doing
that is immoral. It is unethical.
“A degraded habitat will produce degraded humans,” Berry wrote. “If there is to be any
true progress, then the entire life community must progress.”
In the formation of American ideals, nature was elemental to the idea of human rights. Inherent in the
thinking of the Founding Fathers was this assumption: with every right comes responsibility. Whether
we are talking about democracy or nature, if we fail to serve as careful stewards, we will destroy the
reason for our right, and the right itself. Those of us who identify ourselves as conservationists or
environmentalists—whatever word we prefer—nearly always have had some transcendent experience in
the natural world, usually in the form of independent play, with hands muddy, feet wet. We cannot love
what we do not know. As Robert Michael Pyle puts it so well, “What is the extinction of a condor to a
child who has never seen a wren?”

F - 10

 We must do more than talk about the importance of nature; we must ensure that ch ildren in every kind of
neighborhood have everyday access to natural spaces, places, and experiences. To make that happen, this
truth must become evident: we can truly care for nature and ourselves only if we see ourselves and
nature as inseparable, only if we love ourselves as part of nature, only if we believe that our children
have a right to the gifts of nature undestroyed.
The little girl in Raytown may not have a specific right to that particular tree in her chosen woods, but
she does have the inalienable right to be with other life; to liberty, which cannot be realized under
protective house arrest; and to the pursuit of happiness, which is made whole by the universe.
______________

Postscript:
In September, 2012, the World Congress of
the International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN), meeting in Jeju, South Korea, passed a
resolution declaring that children have a human
right to experience the natural world. Dutch human
rights lawyer Annelies Henstra, the IUCN’s Keith
Wheeler and Cheryl Charles, co-founder of the
Children & Nature Network, and others made the
case to the Congress — attended by more than
10,000 people representing the governments of 150
nations and more than 1,000 non-governmental
organizations. The resolution, “the Child’s Right to
Connect with Nature and to a Healthy
Environment,” calls on IUCN’s membership to promote the inclusion of this right within the framework
of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The resolution recognizes “concern about
the increasing disconnection of people and especially children from nature, and the adverse
consequences for both healthy child development (‘nature deficit disorder’) as well as responsible
stewardship for nature and the environment in the future.” And it recognizes that:
“…children, since they are an inalienable part of nature, not only have the right to a healthy
environment, but also to a connection with nature and to the gifts of nature for their physical and
psychological health and ability to learn and create, and that until they have these rights they will not
bear responsibility for nature and the environment…” According to the IUCN World Congress resolu tion,
the World Congress is also convinced “that growing up in a healthy environment and connecting
children with nature is of such a fundamental importance for both children and the (future of) the
conservation of nature and the protection of the environment, that it should be recognized and codified
internationally as a human right for children.”
Full text of the Resolution can be read here.

F - 11

 