 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Capital Improvements Committee

Tuesday, October 1, 2013 12:45 PM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public testimony
will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language
when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or
failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person
from providing future testimony.

13-1372

Transmitting a Communication from

JOHN COOKE, Director, Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy

requesting approval and execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the County of Cook, a body
politic and corporate of the State of Illinois, on behalf of the Of?ce of Capital Planning and Policy (OCPP) and
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHI-IS), and the Illinois Medical District Commission
(IMDC), a body politic and corporate and unit of local government of the State of Illinois.

Per Article VII, Section 10 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS
220/1 et seq.), and other applicable law, units of local government are permitted to cooperate with and support
each other in exercise of their authority and the performance of their responsibilities.

The purpose of the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (?Agreement?) will be to allow the IMDC, OCPP
and to collaborate on redevelopment opportunities within the Illinois Medical District, to better account
for existing and future needs of the County and as well as the IMDC, including but not limited to the
best and highest uses for the County, and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical District.

The Agreement will also promote quality comprehensive re-development opportunities for the County, 
and the IMDC within the Illinois Medical District. The Agreement between the County and the IMDC allows for
the exploration of redevelopment opportunities and will allow the parties to determine strategies to enhance the
services provided to the medical district community, develop a vibrant mixed-use campus for and the
surrounding IMDC community, and bene?t the overall medical district community.

The Agreement shall commence upon execution by all parties and shall be effective for a period of two

(2) years thereafter. This Agreement may be extended or amended upon the mutual written agreement
of the parties. Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing the other party with
thirty (30) days prior written notice of such termination.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None.

Legislative History: 9/1 1/ 13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Capital Improvements Committee

 

 

(Board Agenda Item #41)
?Mhlhew B. DeLeon, Secrefi?r
Chairman: Murphy
Vice-Chairman: Butler
Members: Garcia, Gonnan, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Tobolski

Cook County Page 2 of 2 Printed on 9/19/2013

