Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 25, 2016

1:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.
16-5935
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/5/2016

16-1983
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR., RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Commissioners
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE SAFE DISPOSAL OF PHARMACEUTICALS
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
46 Law Enforcement, Article II, Sheriff, Division 4, Pharmaceutical Disposal Program, Sections 46-101 –
46 119 is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-101 –Short Title.

 This Division shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Safe Disposal of Pharmaceuticals
Ordinance.
Sec. 46-102 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this Division, the following definitions apply:
Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.
Collection Plan means a plan for the collection, transportation and disposal of Unwanted Covered Drugs
required under Sec. 46-104 of this Division that is created by the Director.
County means Cook County, Illinois.
County residents mean human beings residing in the County.
Collector means a Person approved by the Director to gather Unwanted Covered Drugs from County
residents for the purpose of collection, transportation, and disposal.
Covered Drug means a Drug sold, offered for sale or distribution in Cook County in pill, capsule, solid
dosage, tablet, suppository, bolus, lozenge, implant, strip, powder and/or pellet form used by County
residents, including prescription, nonprescription, brand name and generic drugs. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence, “Covered Drug” does not include:
(1) vitamins or supplements;
(2) herbal-based remedies and homeopathic drugs, products, or remedies;
(3) cosmetics, shampoos, sunscreens, toothpaste, lip balm, antiperspirants, or other personal care
products that are regulated as both cosmetics and nonprescription drugs under the federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Title 21 U.S.C. Chapter 9);
(4) Drugs for which Producers provide a pharmaceutical product collection or take-back program
as part of a federal Food and Drug Administration-managed risk evaluation and mitigation strategy
(21 U.S.C. § 355-1);
(5) Drugs that are biological products as defined by 21 C.F.R. § 600.3(h) as it exists on the effective
date of this Division if the Producer already provides a pharmaceutical product collection or takeback program;
(6) medical devices or their component parts or accessories; and
(7) Drugs that are in a cream, elixir, spirit, tincture, syrup, solution, lotion, emulsion, topical,
transdermal, aerosol, propellant, valve, actuator, injectable, infusion, irrigation, ointment,
suspension, liquid and/or paste form.
The definition of Covered Drug shall be inclusive and determined by guidelines issued by the Director with
the advice of the Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee established in Section 46-115.
Director means the Director of the Prescription Drug Take Back Program of the Cook County Sheriff’s
Office, or a duly authorized representative.
Page 2 of 23

 District means the districts of Cook County as defined in Article II, Section 22-34 of the Code of Ordinances
of Cook County, Illinois.
Drug means:
(1) any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopoeia, the official national
formulary, the official homeopathic pharmacopoeia of the United States or any supplement of the
formulary or those pharmacopoeias as published by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention and the
Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia Convention of the United States;
(2) any substance intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease in humans or other animals;
(3) any substance, other than food, intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of
humans or other animals; or
(4) any substance intended for use as a component of any substance specified in (1), (2), or (3) of
this definition.
Drug Wholesaler means a Person that sells or distributes Drugs and Covered Drugs for resale to an Entity
other than a consumer.
Generic Drug means a Drug that is chemically identical or bioequivalent to a brand name drug in dosage
form, safety, strength, route of administration, quality, performance, characteristics, and intended use
though inactive ingredients may vary.
Mail-back services means a collection method for the return of Unwanted Covered Drugs from County
residents utilizing pre-paid and pre-addressed mailing envelopes.
Manufacture means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a Drug but
does not include the activities of a Repackager or Drug Wholesaler, or practitioner who, distributes or
dispenses such substance or device in the course of his or her professional practice or, prepares, compounds,
packages, or labels such substance or device.
Manufacturer means a Person engaged in the Manufacture of Drugs.
Nonprescription Drug means a Drug that may be lawfully sold without a prescription.
Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Pharmacy means a place licensed by the state of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation engaged in the practice of “Pharmacy,” as defined by the Illinois Pharmacy Practice Act, 225
ILCS 85/1 et. seq. is conducted. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Pharmacy does not include a
Pharmacy dispensing pharmaceuticals exclusively pursuant to an “Inpatient Drug Order” as defined by
the Illinois Pharmacy Practice Act, 225 ILCS 85/3 (k).
Prescription Drug means any Drug, including any controlled substance that is required by federal or state
law or regulation to be dispensed by prescription only or is restricted to use by practitioners only.
Page 3 of 23

 Producer means a Manufacturer engaged in the Manufacture of a Covered Drug sold in the County,
including a brand-name or Generic Drug. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Producer does not
include:
(1) a retailer whose store label appears on a Covered Drug or the drug’s packaging if the
Manufacturer from whom the retailer obtains the drug is identified under Sec. 46-104(c) of this
Division;
(2) a Repackager if the Manufacturer from whom the Repackager obtains the Drug is identified
under Sec. 46-104(c) of this Division;
(3) a pharmacist who compounds or repackages a prescribed individual drug product for a
consumer; or
(4) a wholesaler who is not also the Manufacturer.
Registration is the informing of the Director of the distribution of Covered Drugs by a Producer in a manner
set forth by the Director.
Registration Fee is a sum paid by a Producer to cover the cost of the Collection Plan for the protection of
the public safety, health and environment.
Repackager means a person who owns or operates an establishment that repacks and relabels a product or
package for further sale, or for distribution without a further transaction.
Sheriff means the Office of the Cook County Sheriff.
Unwanted Covered Drug means any Covered Drug that the owner has discarded or intends to discard.
Sec. 46-103 - Implementation of this Division.
(a) The Director shall:
(1) Develop a Collection Plan that is in compliance with this Division, including
determining whether a Drug is a Covered Drug as established in accordance with Section
Sec. 46-102; and
(2) Determine the method of collection of Unwanted Covered Drugs as specified under this
Division; and
(3) Determine the total cost of the collection of Unwanted Covered Drugs as specified
under this Division.
(b) Producers shall:
(1) Within 90 days of the passage of this Division register with the Director, in a form
mandated by the Director; and
(2) Pay all registration fees mandated by Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code.

Page 4 of 23

 Sec. 46-104 - Collection Plan – Participation.
(a) Each Producer shall participate in the Collection Plan and pay a Registration Fee.
(b) By three months after the effective date of this Division, or by three months after a Producer
starts sale of a Covered Drug in the County, a Producer must register with the Director in writing
of the Producer’s intent to participate in the Collection Plan. Within 60 days of a Producer’s
Registration, the Director shall meet with the Producer in order to formulate a plan to ensure the
Producer’s compliance with this Division.
(c) By three months after the effective date of this Division, or by three months after a retailer
whose label appears on a Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging starts selling the Covered
Drug in the County, or by three months after a Covered Drug repackaged by Repackager is first
sold in the County, and, thereafter, upon request from the Director, a retailer or Repackager whose
label appears on a Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging must provide the contact
information of the Manufacturer from whom the retailer or Repackager obtains the Covered Drug,
including the telephone number, mailing address and email address of the retailer’s or Repackager’s
point of contact at the Manufacturer.
(d) The Director may, on a case-by-case basis, approve in writing requests for extensions of time
for the submission dates and deadlines in this Sec. 46-104.
(e) The Director may audit the records of a Producer.
Sec. 46-105 - Collection Plan – Components.
The Director shall take all appropriate actions to design, oversee, manage and implement the Collection
Plan. The Collection Plan shall include:
(a) Contact information for all Producers participating in the Collection Plan, including each Drug
Producer’s name, address, phone number, and email address, and the name, address, phone number,
and email address of a human being to whom the Director may direct all inquiries regarding the
Producer’s participation in the Collection Plan;
(b) A description of the proposed collection system to provide convenient ongoing collection
service for all Unwanted Covered Drugs from County residents in compliance with the provisions
and requirements in Sec. 46-106, including a list of all collection methods and participating
Collectors, a list of drop-off sites, a description of how any periodic collection events will be
scheduled and located, a description of how any mail-back services will be provided and an
example of the prepaid, preaddressed mailers the plan will use. The description of the collection
service shall include a list of Retail Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies contacted by the
plan under Sec. 46-106 (b) of this Division, and a list of all Collectors who offered to participate;
(c) A description of the handling and disposal system, including identification of and contact
information for Collectors, transporters and waste disposal facilities to be used by the Collection
Plan in accordance with Sec. 46-106 and Sec. 46-108 of this Division;
(d) A description of the policies and procedures to be followed by Persons handling Unwanted
Covered Drugs collected under the Collection Plan, including a description of how all Collectors,
transporters and waste disposal facilities used will ensure that the collected Unwanted Covered
Page 5 of 23

 Drugs are safely and securely tracked from collection through final disposal, and how all entities
participating in the Collection Plan will operate under and comply with all applicable federal and
state laws, rules and guidelines, including but not limited to those of the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration, and how any Pharmacy collection site will operate under applicable
rules and guidelines of the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq.
(e) A description of a plan for the removal of any patient information on Drug packaging;
(f) A description of the public education effort and promotion strategy required in Sec. 46-107 of
this Division, including a copy of standardized instructions for County residents, signage developed
for Collectors, and required promotional materials;
(g) Proposed short-term and long-term goals of the Collection Plan for collection amounts,
education and promotion; and
(h) A description of how the Collection Plan will consider:
(1) use of existing providers of waste pharmaceutical services;
(2) separating Covered Drugs from packaging to the extent possible to reduce transportation
and disposal costs; and
(3) recycling of Drug packaging to the extent feasible.
Sec. 46-106 - Collection Plan – Collection of Covered Drugs.
(a) This Section does not require any Person to serve as a Collector in the Collection Plan. A Person
may offer to serve as a Collector voluntarily, or may agree to serve as a Collector in exchange for
incentives or payment offered by the Director. Collectors may include law enforcement agencies,
Pharmacies, mail-back services or other entities, operating in accordance with state and federal
laws and regulations for the handling of Covered Drugs, including but not limited to those of the
United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and in compliance with this Division. A
Pharmacy collection site shall operate under applicable rules and guidelines of the Safe
Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq.
(b) The collection system under the Collection Plan shall:
(1) Provide reasonably convenient and equitable access for County residents in all Districts
through drop-off sites. The system of drop-off sites shall provide at least one drop-off site
for every 150,000 County residents in each District, distributed to provide reasonably
convenient and equitable access, but at no time shall there be less than five drop-off sites
per District. If the service convenience goal in this subsection (b)(1) cannot be achieved
due to a lack of drop-off sites at pharmacies, law enforcement agencies, or other qualified
Collectors in each District, then those areas shall be served through periodic collection
events and/or or mail-back services.
(2) Be safe and secure, including providing for the prompt destruction of patient
information on Drug packaging.
(3) Give preference to having Retail Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies serve as
drop-off sites.
Page 6 of 23

 (4) Include, as Collectors, any Pharmacy or any law enforcement agency willing to serve
voluntarily as a drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the
requirements of this Division within three months of their offer to participate, unless the
Collector requests a longer time frame. A Collection Plan may also accept other Collectors
willing to serve as a drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the
requirements of this Division; and
(5) At the Director’s discretion, make mail-back services available, free of charge, to
disabled and homebound County residents upon request through the Collection Plan’s
toll-free telephone number and web site, and through distribution of prepaid,
preaddressed mailers to Persons providing services to such County residents. If
implemented by the Director, the toll-free telephone number and web site required by
this subsection (b)(5) shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, Arabic and
Russian.
(c) Drop-off sites shall accept all Covered Drugs from County residents during all hours that the
Pharmacy, law enforcement agency, or other Collector is normally open for business with the
public. Drop-off sites not operated by a law enforcement agency shall utilize secure collection bins
in compliance with all applicable requirements, including but not limited to those of the United
States Drug Enforcement Administration and the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210
ILCS 150/1, et. seq. In the event that the Collection Plan operates a drop-off site at a particular
location, each drop-off site must accept all Covered Drugs.
Sec. 46-107 - Collection Plan – Promotion.
(a) The Director may coordinate with each Producer and develop a single system of promotion. The Director
may coordinate with each Producer, or its representative, to secure its participation in the single system of
promotion. The system of promotion shall:
(1) Promote the Collection Plan so that collection options for Covered Drugs are widely
understood by County residents, pharmacists, retailers of Covered Drugs and health care
practitioners including doctors and other prescribers, veterinarians and veterinary hospitals,
and promote the safe storage of Covered Drugs by County residents.
(2) Coordinate with Producers to include promotion of the Collection Plan on the Producers’
marketing and packaging materials and devices.
(3) Work with Collectors participating in the Collection Plan to develop clear, standardized
instructions for County residents on the use of collection bins and a readily-recognizable,
consistent design of collection bins.
(4) Establish a single toll-free telephone number and single web site where collection options and
current locations of drop-off sites will be publicized, and prepare educational and outreach
materials promoting safe storage of medicines and describing where and how to return
Unwanted Covered Drugs to the Collection Plan. These materials must be provided to
Pharmacies, health care facilities, veterinary facilities, and other interested parties for
dissemination to County residents. Plain language and explanatory images should be used to
make use of medicine collection services readily understandable by all County residents,
including individuals with limited English proficiency.

Page 7 of 23

 (5) Conduct a biennial survey of County residents and a survey of pharmacists, veterinarians, and
health professionals in the County who interact with patients on use of medicines after the
first full year of operation of the plans. Survey questions shall measure percent awareness of
the Stewardship Plans, assess to what extent drop-off sites and other collection methods are
convenient and easy to use, and assess knowledge and attitudes about risks of abuse,
poisonings and overdoses from prescription and nonprescription medicines used in the home.
Draft survey questions shall be submitted to the Director for review and comment at least 30
days prior to initiation of the survey. Results of the survey shall be reported to the Director
and made available to the public on the website required in Sec. 46-107 within 90 days of the
end of the survey period. The privacy of all survey respondents shall be maintained.
(6) Work with the Illinois Poison Center to advertise drop-off sites and other collection
opportunities under the Collection Plan.
(b) All surveys, outreach, education, promotion, websites, and toll-free phone numbers required by this
Section 16-107 shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, Arabic and Russian.
(1) The Director shall provide guidance on the development of a single system of promotion.
Sec. 46-108 - Collection Plan – Disposal of Covered Drugs.
(a) Covered Drugs collected under the Collection Plan must be disposed of at a permitted hazardous waste
disposal facility as defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R. parts
264 and 265 and/or pursuant to a method permitted by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration
under 21 C.F.R. part 1317.95.
(b) The Director may grant approval under the Collection Plan to dispose of some or all collected Covered
Drugs at a permitted large municipal waste combustor, as defined by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R. parts 60 and 62, if the Director deems the use of a hazardous waste
disposal facility described under subsection (a) of this Sec. 46-108 to be infeasible for the Plan based on
cost, logistics or other considerations.
(c) The Director may use final disposal technologies that provide superior environmental and human health
protection than provided by the disposal technologies in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section or equivalent
protection at lesser cost. The proposed technology must provide equivalent or superior protection in each
of the following areas:
(1) monitoring of any emissions or waste;
(2) worker health and safety;
(3) reduction or elimination of air, water or land emissions contributing to persistent,
bioaccumulative, and toxic pollution; and
(4) overall impact on the environment and human health.
Sec. 46-109 –Collection Plan – Administrative and Operational Costs and Fees.
A Producer participating in the Collection Plan shall pay to the Cook County Department of Revenue an
annual registration fee as established under Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code. The Fee shall be set to
recover, but not exceed, actual costs to the County of the registration and implementation of the Collection
Page 8 of 23

 Plan at a rate duly approved by the Board. When setting the annual registration fee, the Board may consider
the following:
(1) Collection and transportation supplies for drop-off sites;
(2) Acquisition of all secure collection bins for drop-off sites;
(3) Ongoing maintenance or replacement of secure collection bins, as requested by Collectors;
(4) Prepaid, preaddressed mailers provided to disabled and/or home-bound County residents;
(5) Operation of periodic collection events, including costs of law enforcement staff time if
necessary;
(6) Transportation of all collected Covered Drugs to final disposal, including costs of law
enforcement escort if necessary;
(7) Environmentally sound disposal of all collected Covered Drugs under Sec. 46-108 of this
Division;
(8) Creation, promotion and advertisement of the Collection Program;
(9) Creation, maintenance and operation of the single toll-free telephone number and single web
site as established in Section 46-107.
No Person or Producer may charge a point-of-sale fee to consumers or increase the cost of a Covered Drug
to recoup the costs of the Collection Plan, nor may they charge a specific point-of-collection fee at the time
the Covered Drugs or increase the cost of a Covered Drug are collected.
The Department of Revenue shall establish reasonable procedures for the collection of the annual
registration fee, including procedures for appealing the amount of the fee and enforcement actions for
nonpayment. All appeals and enforcement actions shall be conducted in accordance with Article IX –
Administrative Hearings of the Cook County Code.
All Registration Fees shall be shall deposited into the Pharmaceutical Disposal Program Special Fund,
pursuant to Section 46-110 of the Cook County Code.
Sec. 46-110 – Pharmaceutical Disposal Fund.
The Comptroller shall create a special fund to be known as the "Pharmaceutical Disposal Fund" which
shall be subject to budget and appropriation for purposes related to the funding of the Collection Plan.
The Department of Revenue shall collect, account for and transfer any remittals pursuant to Section 46109 of the Cook County Code into such Fund. The Comptroller shall distribute monies from the Fund
after appropriation by the Cook County Board of Commissioners for the purpose of funding the
Collection Plan.
Sec. 46-111 - Collection Plan – Reporting Requirements.
(a) Within six months after the end of the first 12-month period of operation and annually thereafter, the
Director and the Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee established in Section 46-115 shall submit
Page 9 of 23

 a report to the Board on behalf of participating Producers describing their plan’s activities during the
previous reporting period. The report must include:
(1)

A list of Producers participating in the Collection Plan;

(2)

The amount, by weight, of Covered Drugs collected, including the amount by weight from
each collection method used;

(3)

the number and types of Pharmaceuticals being disposed of in the Collection Plan;

(4)

the total cost of the provision of services of the Collection Plan;

(5)

the total amount of fees collected from participating Producers;

(6)

a list of the number, site and type of collection sites established and to be established;

(7)

The number of mailers provided for disabled and/or home-bound County residents;

(8)

The locations where mailers were provided, if applicable;

(9)

The dates and locations of collection events held, if applicable;

(10)

The transporters used and the disposal facility or facilities used for all Covered drugs;

(11)

Whether any safety or security problems occurred during collection, transportation or
disposal of Unwanted Covered Drugs during the reporting period and, if so, what changes
have or will be made to policies, procedures or tracking mechanisms to alleviate the
problem and to improve safety and security in the future;

(12)

A description of the public education, outreach and evaluation activities implemented
during the reporting period;

(13)

A description of how collected packaging was recycled to the extent feasible, including the
recycling facility or facilities used;

(14)

A summary of the Collection Plan’s goals, the degree of success in meeting those goals in
the past year, and, if any goals have not been met, what effort will be made to achieve the
goals in the next year; and

(15)

The total expenditures of the Collection Plan during the reporting period.

(16)

The report may also include a summary of available data on indicators and trends of abuse,
poisonings and overdoses from prescription and nonprescription drugs and a review of
comprehensive prevention strategies to reduce risks of drug abuse, overdoses, and
preventable poisonings.

(b) The Director shall make reports submitted under this Section available to the public.
(c) For the purposes of this Sec. 46-111, “reporting period” means the period from January 1 through
December 31 of the same calendar year, unless otherwise specified to the plan operator by the Director.

Page 10 of 23

 Sec. 46-112- Change of Collection Plan
The Director may change the Collection Plan or substantively alter plan operations, including, but not
limited to, changes to participating Manufacturers, collection methods, policies and procedures for handling
Unwanted Covered Drugs, or education and promotion methods or disposal facilities. The Director must
provide timely notice to all Producers before changing the Collection Plan.

Sec. 46-113 - Collection Plan – Enforcement and Penalties.
(a) The Director shall administer the penalty provisions of this Division.
(b) If the Director makes findings and determines that any Person has violated this Division or a regulation
adopted pursuant to this Division, the Director shall send a written warning, as well as a copy of this
Division and any regulations adopted pursuant to this Division, to the Person or Persons who violated it.
The Person or Persons shall have 30 days after receipt of the warning to come into compliance and correct
all violations.
(c) If the Person or Persons fail to come into compliance or correct all violations, the Director may impose
administrative fines for violations of this Division or of any regulation adopted pursuant to this Division.
(1) Upon findings made under subsection (b), the Person or Persons shall be subject to an
administrative fine as follows:
a. A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation;
b. A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation;
c. A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third violation and each
subsequent violation.
(2) Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
(3) Fine Procedures. Notice of the fine shall be served on the Person or Persons. The notice shall
contain an advisement of the right to request a hearing in the Cook County Department of
Administrative Hearings. Hearings on violations shall be conducted in accordance with Article
IX. – Administrative Hearings of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. Payments for fines shall
be deposited into the Pharmaceutical Disposal Fund established pursuant to Section 46-110.
(4) Failure to Pay Fine. If said fine is not paid within 30 days from the date appearing on the
notice of the fine or of the notice of determination of the Director or his or her designee after
the hearing, the Director may use any lawful means for collecting the fine, including instituting
an action in any court of proper jurisdiction.
(d) The Director may bring a civil action to enjoin violations of or compel compliance with any requirement
of this Division or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Division, as well as for payment of civil
penalties and any other appropriate remedy.

Page 11 of 23

 (e) Any Person who knowingly and willfully violates the requirements of this Division or any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to this Division is punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50) and
not more than five hundred ($500) for each day per violation.
(f) In determining the appropriate penalties, the court or the Director shall consider the extent of harm
caused by the violation, the nature and persistence of the violation, the frequency of past violations, any
action taken to mitigate the violation, and the financial burden to the violator.
(g) No civil or administrative action under this Sec. 46-113 may be brought more than four years after the
date of the alleged violation.
Sec. 46-114 –Collection Plan – Rules and Performance Standards
(a) The Director, may adopt rules and regulations as necessary to implement, administer, and enforce this
Division.
(b) The Director may work with the Producers and/or the Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee as
established in Section 46-115 to define goals for collection amounts, education, and promotion of the
Collection Plan.
Sec. 46-115– Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee
(a) There shall be created a Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee made up of the President of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners or his or her designee and five other members appointed by the
President. Members of the Advisory Committee shall include:
(1) The President, or his or her designee; and
(2) One member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; and
(3) The Sheriff, or his or her designee; and
(4) The Director of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control, or his or her designee;
and
(5) The Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, or his or her
designee; and
(6) A member of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago, to be appointed by the President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Great Chicago.
(b) The Sheriff, or his or her designee, shall serve as the Chairman of the Advisory Committee. The Director
shall serve as an ex officio member. The members of the Committee shall serve without pay.
(c)The purpose of the Advisory Committee is to oversee, advise and assist with the promotion and
implementation of this Division. The Advisory Committee may formulate recommendations to bring about
improvement in this regard.
(d)The members of the Advisory Committee shall meet quarterly or as designated by the Chairman.

Page 12 of 23

 (e)The Advisory Committee with the assistance of the Director shall prepare an annual report describing
the work undertaken by the program pursuant to Section 46-111. The report shall include minutes of
meetings of the Advisory Committee over the past year, a description of the types of programs that have
been implemented or outsourced and the total cost of the Stewardship Program.
Sec. 46-116 - Undertaking For the General Welfare.
In adopting and implementing this Division, the County is assuming an undertaking only to promote the
general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach
of which it is liable in money damages to any Person who claims that such breach proximately caused
injury.
Sec. 46-117– No Conflict with Federal or State Law.
This Division shall be construed so as not to conflict with applicable federal or State laws, rules or
regulations. Nothing in this Division shall authorize any County agency or department to impose any duties
or obligations in conflict with limitations on authority established by State or federal law at the time such
agency or department action is taken. The County shall suspend enforcement of this Division to the extent
that said enforcement would conflict with any preemptive State or federal legislation subsequently adopted.
Nothing in this Division is intended or shall be construed to protect anticompetitive or collusive conduct,
or to modify, impair, or supersede the operation of any of the antitrust or unfair competition laws of the
State of Illinois or the Unites States.
Sec. 46-118 – Severability.
If any of the provisions of this Division or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of those provisions, including the application of such part or provisions to persons
or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue
in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this Division are severable.
Sec. 46-119 – Applicability.
Without limitation, this section applies to areas of unincorporated Cook County, to areas owned or operated
by Special Districts within unincorporated Cook County, and to areas within municipalities within the
County which have not adopted ordinances governing the operation of pharmaceutical stewardship plans
within the said municipalities. To the extent a municipality has adopted an ordinance addressing
pharmaceutical stewardship plans, or to the extent a municipality adopts an ordinance electing not to be
bound by this pharmaceutical stewardship plans, the ordinance of the municipality shall apply, and this
section shall not apply, to any areas within the jurisdiction of the municipality.
Effective date: Sections 46-101 through 46-112 and 46-114 through 46-119 shall be in effect January 1,
2017. Section 46-113 shall be in effect January 1, 2018.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 32 – Fees, Section 32-1 is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
…
Page 13 of 23

 Code
Section

Description

Fees,
Rates,
Charges
(in
dollars)

46-3(2)

Jail cost reimbursement for each conviction or orders of supervision for a
criminal violation other than a petty or business offense

10.00

46-31(a)

Merit system application and examination fee

25.00

46-36(b)

Fee for participation in the Youthful Offender Alcohol and Other Drug
Education Program

5.00

Pharmaceutical Collection Registration Fee

250.00

CHAPTER 46, Law Enforcement

46-109

…

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2018.

16-5768
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY Cook County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE CREATING A LIVING WAGE IN COOK COUNTY
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
42 - Human Relations, Article I. - In General, Division 2, Cook County Living Wage Ordinance, Sections
42-7 - 42-15 are hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 42-7 - Short Title.
This Division shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Living Wage Ordinance.
Sec. 42-8 - Definitions.
Page 14 of 23

 For purposes of this Division, the following definitions apply:
Covered Employee means any Employee who is not subject to any of the exclusions set out in
Section 42-12 below, and who, in any particular two-week period, performs at least two hours of work for
an Employer while physically present within the geographic boundaries of Cook County. For purposes of
this definition, time spent traveling in Cook County that is compensated time, including, but not limited to,
deliveries, sales calls, and travel related to other business activity taking place within Cook County, shall
constitute work while physically present within the geographic boundaries of Cook County; however, time
spent traveling in Cook County that is uncompensated commuting time shall not constitute work while
physically present within the geographic boundaries of Cook County.
CPI means the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers most recently published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.
Director means the Executive Director of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights.
Domestic worker means a person whose primary duties include housekeeping; house cleaning;
home management; nanny services, including childcare and child monitoring; caregiving, personal care or
home health services for elderly persons or persons with illnesses, injuries, or disabilities who require
assistance in caring for themselves; laundering; cooking; companion services; chauffeuring; and other
household services to members of households or their guests in or about a private home or residence, or
any other location where the domestic work is performed.
Employee, Gratuities, and Occupation have the meanings ascribed to those terms in the Minimum
Wage Law, with the exception that all Domestic Workers, including Domestic Workers employed by
Employers with fewer than 4 employees, shall fall under the definition of the term “Employee”.
Employer means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited liability company,
business trust, or any person or group of persons that gainfully employs at least one Covered Employee. To
qualify as an Employer, such individual, group, or entity must (1) maintain a business facility within the
geographic boundaries of Cook County and/or (2) be subject to one or more of the license requirements in
Title 4 of this Code.
Fair Labor Standards Act means the United States Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 USC §
201 et seq., in force on the effective date of this chapter and as thereafter amended.
Minimum Wage Law means the Illinois Minimum Wage Law, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., in force on
the effective date of this chapter and as thereafter amended.
Subsidized Temporary Youth Employment Program means any publicly subsidized summer or
other temporary youth employment program through which persons aged 24 or younger are employed by,
or engaged in employment coordinated by, a nonprofit organization or governmental entity.
Subsidized Transitional Employment Program means any publicly subsidized temporary
employment program through which persons with unsuccessful employment histories and/or members of
statistically hard-to-employ populations (such as formerly homeless persons, the long-term unemployed,
and formerly incarcerated persons) are provided temporary paid employment and case-managed services
under a program administered by a nonprofit organization or governmental entity, with the goal of
transitioning program participants into unsubsidized employment.
Tipped Employee has the meaning ascribed that term in the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Page 15 of 23

 Wage means compensation due an Employee by reason of his employment.
Sec. 42-9 - Minimum Hourly Wage.
Except as provided in Sections 42-10 of this Code, every Employer shall pay no less than the
following Wages to each Covered Employee for each hour of work performed for that Employer while
physically present within the geographic boundaries of Cook County:
(a) Beginning on the effective date of this ordinance, the greater of: (1) the minimum hourly Wage
set by the Minimum Wage Law; (2) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor Standards Act; or (3)
$10.50 per hour.
(b) Beginning on July 1, 2017, the greater of: (1) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Minimum
Wage Law; (2) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor Standards Act; or (3) $11.00 per hour.
(c) Beginning on July 1, 2018, the greater of: (1) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Minimum
Wage Law; (2) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor Standards Act; or (3) $12.00 per hour.
(d) Beginning on July 1, 2019, the greater of: (1) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Minimum
Wage Law; (2) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor Standards Act; or (3) $13.00 per hour.
(e) Beginning on July 1, 2020, and on every July 1 thereafter, the greater of: (1) the minimum
hourly Wage set by the Cook County Minimum Wage Law; (2) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair
Labor Standards Act; or (3) Cook County’s minimum hourly Wage from the previous year, increased in
proportion to the increase, if any, in the CPI, provided, however, that if the CPI increases by more than 2.5
percent in any year, the Cook County minimum Wage increase shall be capped at 2.5 percent, and that there
shall be no Cook County minimum Wage increase in any year when the unemployment rate in Cook County
for the preceding year, as calculated by the Illinois Department of Employment Security, was equal to or
greater than 8.5 percent. Any increase pursuant to subsection 42-9(e) shall be rounded up to the nearest
multiple of $0.05. Any increase pursuant to subsection 42-9(e) shall remain in effect until any subsequent
adjustment is made. On or before June 1, 2020, and on or before every June 1 thereafter, the Director shall
make available to Employers a bulletin announcing the adjusted minimum hourly Wage for the upcoming
year.

Sec. 42-10 - Minimum hourly wage in occupations receiving gratuities.
(a) Every Employer of a Covered Employee engaged in an Occupation in which Gratuities have
customarily and usually constituted part of the remuneration shall pay no less than the following Wages to
each Covered Employee for each hour of work performed for that Employer while physically present within
the geographic boundaries of the County:
(1) Beginning on July 1, 2015, the greater of: (A) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor
Standards Act for Tipped Employees, plus an additional $0.50 per hour; or (B) the minimum
hourly Wage set by the Minimum Wage Law for workers who receive Gratuities, plus an
additional $0.50 per hour.
(2) Beginning on July 1, 2016, the greater of: (A) the minimum hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor
Standards Act for Tipped Employees, plus an additional $1.00 per hour; or (B) the minimum

Page 16 of 23

 hourly Wage set by the Minimum Wage Law for workers who receive Gratuities, plus an
additional $1.00 per hour.
(3) Beginning on July 1, 2017, and on every July 1 thereafter, the greater of (A) the minimum
hourly Wage set by the Fair Labor Standards Act for tipped workers; (B) the minimum hourly
Wage set by the Minimum Wage Law for workers who receive Gratuities; or (C) Cook
County’s minimum hourly Wage from the previous year for workers who receive Gratuities,
increased in proportion to the increase, if any, in the CPI, provided, however, that if the CPI
increases by more than 2.5 percent in any year, the Cook County minimum Wage increase for
workers who receive Gratuities shall be capped at 2.5 percent, and that there shall be no Cook
County minimum Wage increase for workers who receive Gratuities in any year when the
unemployment rate in Cook County for the preceding year, as calculated by the Illinois
Department of Employment Security, was equal to or greater than 8.5 percent. Any increase
pursuant to subsection 42-10 (a)(3)(C) shall be rounded up to the nearest multiple of $0.05.
Any increase pursuant to subsection 42-10 (a)(3) shall remain in effect until any subsequent
adjustment is made. On or before June 1, 2017, and on or before every June 1 thereafter, the
Director shall make available to Employers a bulletin announcing Cook County’s minimum
hourly Wage for the upcoming year for workers who receive Gratuities.
(b) Each Employer that pays a Covered Employee the Wage described in subsection 42-10 (a)
shall transmit to the Director, in a manner provided by regulation, substantial evidence establishing: (1) the
amount the Covered Employee received as Gratuities during the relevant pay period; and (2) that no part of
that amount was returned to the Employer. If an Employer is required by the Minimum Wage Law to
provide substantially similar data to the Illinois Department of Labor, the Director may allow the Employer
to comply with this subsection 42-10 (b) by filing a copy of the state documentation.
Sec. 42-11 - Overtime compensation.
The Wages set out in Sections 42-9 and 42-10 are subject to the overtime compensation provisions
in the Cook County Minimum Wage Law, with the exception that the definitions of “Employer” and
“Employee” in this chapter shall apply.
Sec. 42-12 - Exclusions.
This chapter shall not apply to hours worked:
(a) By any person subject to subsection 4(a)(2) of the Minimum Wage Law, with the exception that
the categories of Employees described in subsections 4(a)(2)(A) and 4(a)(2)(B) of the Minimum Wage Law
shall be entitled to the Wages described in Sections 42-9 and 42-10 , whichever applies, as well as the
overtime compensation described in Section 42-11;
(b) By any person subject to subsection 4(a)(3), subsection 4(d), subsection 4(e), Section 5, or
Section 6 of the Minimum Wage Law;
(c) For any governmental entity other than the Cook County, a category that, for purposes of this
chapter, includes, but is not limited to, any unit of local government, the Illinois state government, and the
government of the United States, as well as any other federal, state, or local governmental agency or
department;
(d) For any Subsidized Temporary Youth Employment Program; or

Page 17 of 23

 (e) For any Subsidized Transitional Employment Program.

Sec. 42-13 - Applications to Collective Bargaining Agreements.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to interfere with, impede, or in any way diminish
the right of employees to bargain collectively with their employers through representatives of their own
choosing in order to establish wages or other conditions of work in excess of the applicable minimum
standards of the provisions of this chapter. The requirements of this chapter may be waived in a bona fide
collective bargaining agreement, but only if the waiver is set forth explicitly in such agreement in clear and
unambiguous terms.
Sec. 42-14 - Notice and Posting.
(a) Every Employer shall post in a conspicuous place at each facility where any Covered Employee
works that is located within the geographic boundaries of Cook County a notice advising the Covered
Employee of the current minimum Wages under this chapter, and of his rights under this chapter. The
Director shall prepare and make available a form notice that satisfies the requirements of this subsection
42-14 (a). Employers that do not maintain a business facility within the geographic boundaries of Cook
County and households that serve as the worksites for Domestic Workers are exempt from this subsection
42-14(a).
(b) Every Employer shall provide with the first paycheck subject to this chapter issued to a Covered
Employee a notice advising the Covered Employee of the current minimum Wages under this chapter, and
of the Employee’s rights under this chapter. The Director shall prepare and make available a form notice
that satisfies the requirements of this subsection 42-14(b).
Sec. 42-15 - Retaliation Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any Employer to discriminate in any manner or take any adverse action
against any Covered Employee in retaliation for exercising any right under this chapter, including, but not
limited to, disclosing, reporting, or testifying about any violation of this chapter or regulations promulgated
thereunder. For purposes of this Section, prohibited adverse actions include, but are not limited to,
unjustified termination, unjustified denial of promotion, unjustified negative evaluations, punitive schedule
changes, punitive decreases in the desirability of work assignments, and other acts of harassment shown to
be linked to such exercise of rights.
Sec. 42-16 - Enforcement - Regulations.
The Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall enforce this chapter, and the Director is
authorized to adopt regulations for the proper administration and enforcement of its provisions.
Sec. 42-17 - Violation - Penalty.
Any Employer who violates this chapter or any regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply.
Sec. 42-18 - Private Cause of Action.

Page 18 of 23

 If any Covered Employee is paid by his Employer less than the Wage to which he is entitled under
this chapter, the Covered Employee may recover in a civil action three times the amount of any such
underpayment, together with costs and such reasonable attorney’s fees as the court allows. An agreement
by the Covered Employee to work for less than the Wage required under this chapter is no defense to such
action.
THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 34, Finance, Article IV, Procurement, Division 4, Disqualifications and Penalties, Section 34-179
shall be amended as follows:
Sec. 34-179. - Disqualification due to violation of laws related to the payment of wages and Employer
Paid Sick Leave Ordinance.
(a) A Person including a Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section
34-367 of the Cook County Code) who has admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable
in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois
Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1
et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the
Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201,
et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages shall
be ineligible to enter into a Contract with the County for a period of five years from the date of conviction,
entry of a plea, administrative finding or admission of guilt.
(b) A person including a Substantial Owner who has admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of violating the Cook County Living
Wage Ordinance (Section 42-7 - 42-15 of the Cook County Code) shall be ineligible to enter into a Contract
with the County for a period of five years from the date of conviction, entry of a plea, administrative finding
or admission of guilt.
(b) (c) The CPO shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person or Substantial Owner
(as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) from whom the
County seeks to make a Contract with certifying that the Person seeking to do business with the County
including its Substantial Owners (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook
County Code) has not violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) and or (b) of this Section.
(c) (d) For Contracts entered into following the effective date of this Ordinance, if the County
becomes aware that a Person including Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V,
Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) under contract with the County is in violation of Subsection
(a) or (b) of this Section, then, after notice from the County, any such violation(s) shall constitute a default
under the Contract.
(d) (e) If a Person including a Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section
34-367 of the Cook County Code) is ineligible to contract with the County due to the provisions of
Subsection (a) or (b) of this Section, the Person seeking the Contract may submit a request for a reduction
or waiver of the ineligibility period to the CPO. The request shall be in writing in a manner and form
prescribed by the CPO and shall include one or more of the following actions have been taken:
(1) There has been a bona fide change in ownership or Control of the ineligible Person or
Substantial Owner;

Page 19 of 23

 (2) Disciplinary action has been taken against the individual(s) responsible for the acts giving rise
to the violation;
(3) Remedial action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of the acts giving rise to the
disqualification or default; or
(4) Other factors that the Person or Substantial Owner believe are relevant.
The CPO shall review the documentation submitted, make any inquiries deemed necessary, request
additional documentation where warranted and determine whether a reduction or waiver is appropriate.
Should the CPO determine that a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period is appropriate; the CPO
shall submit its decision and findings to the County Board.
(e) (f) A Using Agency may request an exception to such period of ineligibility by submitting a
written request to the CPO, supported by facts that establish that it is in the best interests of the County that
the Contract be made from such ineligible Person. The CPO shall review the documentation, make any
inquiries deemed necessary, and determine whether the request should be approved. If an exception is
granted, such exception shall apply to that Contract only and the period of ineligibility shall continue for
its full term as to any other Contract. Said exceptions granted by the CPO shall be communicated to the
County Board.
THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 74, Taxation, Article 2, Real Property Taxation, Division 2, Classification System for Assessment,
Section 74-74 are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-74- Laws Regulating the Payment of Wages and Employer Paid Sick Leave
(a) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person including any
Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this Article if, during the five
year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I,
Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful
violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum
Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820
ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the
Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et. seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C.
201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages.
(b) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367of the Cook County Code) who seeks a property
tax incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person or Substantial
Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367of the Cook County Code) has not
violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) of this Section.
(c) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Part
I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367of the Cook County Code) has admitted guilt or liability or has
been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or
willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois
Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification
Page 20 of 23

 Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et
seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et. seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29
U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment
of wages during the five year period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has reclassified
the Person’s or Substantial Owner’s (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367of the Cook
County Code) subject property under a property tax incentive classification, then, after notice from the
Assessor of such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation and
request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or waiver of
ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds for revocation of the classification as provided by the
Assessor or by the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance. In case of revocation or cancellation, the
Incentive Classification shall be deemed null and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked
or cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall
reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference in the amount of taxes that would have
been collected had the subject property not received the property tax incentive.
(d) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
who seeks a property tax incentive from the County that the applicant pays a Minimum Wage to its
employees in accordance with Sections 42-7 through 42-15 of the Cook County Code.
THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 54, Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article X, General Business
Licenses, Section 54-384 and Section 54-390 are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 54-384. - License application.
All applications for a General Business License shall be made in writing and under oath to the Director of
Revenue on a form provided for that purpose.
(a) Every application for a County General Business License shall be submitted and signed by the
Person doing business or authorized representative of the Person doing business and shall contain the
following:
(1) Name of the applicant.
(2) Business address.
(3) Social security numbers, Tax ID number, and residence addresses of its sole proprietor or the
three individuals who own the highest percentage interests in such Person and any other
individual who owns five percent or more interest therein.
(4) Pin number of the property or properties where the business is being operated.
(5) A brief description of the business operations plan.
(6) Sales tax allocation code. The sales tax allocation code identifies a specific sales tax geographic
area and is used by the State of Illinois for sales tax allocation purposes.
(7) Certification that applicant is in compliance with all applicable County Ordinances.
(8) For Business Licenses applied for or renewed following the effective date of this provision,
certification that the applicant has not, during the five-year period prior to the date of the
Page 21 of 23

 application for a Business License, admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or
liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful violation
of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum
Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification
Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C.
2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et. seq., the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of
any state, which governs the payment of wages.
(9) Certification that the applicant pays a Minimum Wage to its employees that conforms with
Sections 42-7 - 42-15 of the Cook County Code
(b) The Director of Revenue shall be the custodian of all applications for licenses which [sic] under
provisions of this Code. All information received by the Department from applications filed pursuant to
this article or from any investigations conducted pursuant to this article, except for official County purposes,
or as required by the Freedom of Information Act, shall be confidential.
(c) The General Business License applicant may be subject to an inspection by the following county
departments including, but not limited to, Health, Building and Zoning and the Environment, prior to
licensing.
(d) It shall be grounds for denial and/or revocation of any license issued under the provisions of
this article whenever the license applicant knowingly includes false or incomplete information in the license
application or is in violation of a County Ordinance.
***
Sec. 54-390. - Failure to comply-Code of Ordinances.
(a) Failure to comply with applicable Cook County Code of Ordinances may result in general
business license suspension or revocation.
(b) Persons doing business in unincorporated Cook County must comply with this article and,
including but not limited to, the following Cook County Code of Ordinances:
(1) Chapter 30, Environment; or
(2) Chapter 38, Article III, Public Health and Private Nuisances; or
(3) Chapter 58: Article III, Offenses involving Public Safety, and Article IV, Offenses Involving
Public Morals; or
(4) The Cook County Building Ordinance, adopted originally on March 11, 1949, as amended,
and/or the Cook County Building Code; or
(5) Chapter 74 Taxation; or
(6) The Cook County Zoning Ordinance, as amended; or
(7) Chapter 42 Human Relations.

Page 22 of 23

 Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage.

_________________________________________
Matthew DeLeon
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 23 of 23

 