MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
OCTOBER 30, 1996
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on October 30, 1996 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant
to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Byron G. Cudmore, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph C. Haughey, Kevin Lockhart and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’
B. Cusack, other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested
parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Cudmore was
delayed until 11:00 a.m. due to a delay in his airline flight. Member Pyatt moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending and Probable Litigation Matters
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board reconvened in Open Session at 12:47 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the September 17, 1996 regular meeting. Member Pyatt
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

1

 Member Vickrey moved that all portions of closed meeting minutes of the Illinois
Gaming Board prior to April, 1996, for which the need for confidentiality no longer
exists, be made available for public inspection as required by the Open Meetings
Act. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by
unanimous consent.
Chairman's Report
Chairman Johnson announced a new item on the agenda. The “Chairman’s Report”
will be given at the beginning of each Board meeting. Items covered under the report
will include announcements of upcoming events or Board business items as well as
acknowledgment of recent developments. Chairman Johnson announced the proposed
meeting dates for 1997. (January 28, February 25, March 18, April 22, May 20, June
17, July 15, no meeting for August, September 16, October 21 and a combined
November/December meeting of December 2.) He solicited input from members and
the public related to conflicts with these proposed meeting dates. The Chairman
announced that the Board would consider the Boyd acquisition of Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation at its December 3 meeting. He also indicated the Board is expected to
meet over dinner on the evening of December 2.
The Chairman discussed the arrest and conviction of a crew of slot thieves. He noted
the involvement of agency staff in the prosecution. The Chairman also commented on
an article run by the Chicago Sun-Times that focused on a stock option transaction
discussed by the Board in a closed session meeting in April 1994. He expressed that
the Board (in 1994) reached an appropriate decision on the matter. He commented
further that the Board has taken steps subsequent to the 1994 decision to strengthen its
oversight of ownership-related issues.
Chairman Johnson asked the Administrator to summarize, for the upcoming legislative
veto session, the findings from the economic impact conference held September 18
and the implications of this information as concerns expansion of gaming in Illinois.
Administrator's Report
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly statistical reports: Adjusted
Gross Receipts, Underage Patrons, Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations and Credit
Issuance. He noted that the Board authorized “waiver” of cruising requirements at the
Par-A-Dice for “preventive maintenance” was handled in a timely fashion by the
licensee. Administrator Belletire also stated that staff will be examining more closely
the issuance of credit.
Administrator Belletire announced that Member Vickrey attended the opening of the
Par-A-Dice hotel and that Boyd Gaming is managing the hotel under a short term
contract with Par-Dice Gaming Corporation.
The Administrator reported: on surveys distributed to employees of Illinois’ riverboat
casinos; a change in the Circus Circus Board of Directors; a change in management at
the Alton Belle; the expiration of the comment period on the comprehensive Rules

2

 submission initiated by the Board last summer; recently initiated shareholder lawsuits
involving Key Persons in Illinois; and, a requested transfer of ownership interest in the
Rock Island Boatworks.
The Administrator also reported on:
•

Staff work on the FY’98 budget request.

•

A request by the Department of Public Aid for IGB assistance in assuring that
occupational licensees are current in their child support obligations.

•

Level 1 applicants that have withdrawn their applications.

•

Staff efforts to bill licensees for past (and as yet unbilled) background
investigation costs.

Owner Licensees
ALTON GAMING COMPANY - Administrator Belletire gave a report on the renewal of
the Alton Belle. He stated that Alton is the first applicant to be renewed using the
revised owner renewal application. Steve Norton, representing Argosy Gaming
Corporation, answered questions posed by members of the Board.
Chairman Johnson asked if it is normal procedure for Alton to charge interest on the
advance of cash made in the form of inter-company receivables. Mr. Norton advised
the Chairman that he would find out the answer and report back to the Board in writing.
Chairman Johnson also asked for a status on Argosy’s (Lawrenceberg) Indiana
opening. Mr. Norton stated that they are awaiting final approval from the Corps. of
Engineers. An early December opening is anticipated. Mr. Norton concluded by
reporting on several projects Argosy is working on to improve their site in Illinois.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board renew the Owner’s license of Alton Gaming
Company for a period of one year commencing in October, 1996. In renewing the
Owner’s license, the Board notes the following:
1.

Alton must continue to work with the Audit staff to correct
deficiencies in the areas outlined in the September, 1996 audit
and provide documentation to the staff evidencing such
compliance.

2.

Commitments made by Alton’s management for improvements
in Alton’s dining and pavilion facilities and to its vessel should
be financed and undertaken during this licensure period.

3.

Alton should make further efforts to patronize Illinois
businesses.

3

 4.

Alton’s cooperation is sought in the conducting and financing
of studies of the economic impact of gaming.

Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Supplier Licensees
UNIVERSAL DISTRIBUTING OF NEVADA, INC. - Administrator Belletire reported that
staff recommend lifting the restriction placed earlier this year on the licensee, related to
Universal’s failure to submit specific financial documents.
Member Browder moved that
WHEREAS, in June of 1996, the Board in conjunction with the renewal of
licensure, issued a restriction on the license of Universal Distributing of
Nevada; and
WHEREAS, the license restriction prohibited Universal from selling its
products to owner licensees until such time as Universal had complied
with certain of the Board’s disclosure requirements; and
WHEREAS, Universal has now complied with these requirements.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the restriction is hereby lifted
and Universal is permitted to sell its products to owner licensees.
Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Vickrey noted his displeasure in not having a representative of the licensee
present when Board action is being taken. Member Cudmore concurred. Member
Pyatt asked if the licensee is sent an agenda or notified that Board action is pending.
Administrator Belletire responded that generally the licensee is notified.
BALLY GAMING, INC. - David Johnson, representing Bally Gaming, Inc., requested
renewal of their supplier’s license.
Member Cudmore moved that the Board approve Bally Gaming Inc.’s application
for renewal of its Supplier’s license for a period of one year expiring October,
1997. In renewing the license, the Board notes the following:
1.

Bally must make further efforts to keep Staff of the Board apprised of
any material changes involving the company; and

2.

Bally must be more diligent in submitting required reports and
applications accurately and on a timely basis.

4

 Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
PROGRESSIVE GAMES, INC. - Administrator Belletire stated that a recent change in
Board policy now requires that shuffler machines be licensed in Illinois. He indicated
that staff had completed a review of a shuffle machine to be sold by Progressive
Games.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the addition of the Quick Draw
Shuffler to the list of approved gaming equipment which Progressive Games, Inc.
is authorized to lease or sell to licensed Illinois riverboat casinos. Member
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Board members again noted that no company representative was present to respond to
Board questions.
Occupational Licensees
Member Vickrey moved that the Board approve 170 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 2, and 301 applications for an Occupational License,
Level 3, and deny 3 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 4
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Pyatt seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Cudmore moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative
record, adopt the Findings of Fact and the Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge, and grant George Lewis a
level 1 Occupational license. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board, having reviewed the administrative record,
adopt the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as stated in the
recommendation of the Administrative Law Judge and deny the application of
Jefferey Harbor for a level 3 Occupational license. Member Cudmore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board deny the hearing requests of Maureen
Swiatek and Darnell Williams in that the requests fail to comply with Board Rule
3000.405. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Justin
McLurkin be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves Mr.

5

 McLurkin’s unauthorized removal of United States currency from bill validators.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Christina
Stewart be issued and that her license be revoked. The complaint involves Ms.
Stewart’s unauthorized removal of United States currency from bill validators.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Terry Foster
be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves Mr. Foster’s
disorderly conduct while at the Empress River Casino-Joliet. Member Browder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Derrick
Reid be issued and that his license be revoked. The complaint involves Mr.
Reid’s failure to comply with Harrah’s Internal Control system and his failure to
accurately disclose his reason for leaving Harrah’s in a subsequently filed
application for an Occupational License. Member Browder seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Pyatt moved that the complaint for disciplinary action against Craig
Travers be issued and that he be given a formal reprimand for his failure to
comply with Board Rules and Casino Queen’s Internal Control system. Member
Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Board Policy Discussion Items
WIDE AREA PROGRESSIVE SLOTS (“WAPS”) - Administrator Belletire reported that
staff conferred with various individuals in Louisiana and Mississippi regarding the
technical aspects of WAPS. Staff also visited casinos in these states to gain first hand
knowledge on how the system overall is viewed by the licensees. He noted a written
report was provided to the Board. The Administrator queried the Board on their
positions regarding WAPS. He suggested that the Board consider one of three basic
options: disallow WAPS; specify Board standards for WAPS; or, allow WAPS on a
“case by case” basis.
Member Browder stated that he does not see a significant demand for progressive
machines. He also stated his concern for the effect of these machines on the
compulsive gambler.
Member Cudmore stated his concern with Illinois being at a competitive disadvantage
with states that allow these systems. He asked Administrator Belletire what the status
is in the surrounding states in regards to WAPS. Mr. Belletire believes none of the mid-

6

 western states, until last month, had considered WAPS.
moving to authorize WAPS.

He indicated Missouri is

Chairman Johnson asked questions regarding the fee structure, extended payout of
winnings and external advertising/marketing of this system.
Michael Ficaro,
representing IGT, responded to this and other Board concerns.
Member Pyatt asked if the staff found Louisiana and Mississippi to have a competitive
edge due to WAPS. Staff investigator Allan McDonald reported on his findings, one of
which is that in both states licensees felt that not using WAPS would place them at a
disadvantage.
Member Vickrey commented on the staff report and was pleased to see that the
technical aspect and reliability of the machines received high marks. He further stated
that he feels Illinois would be at a competitive disadvantage if the border states had this
system and Illinois licensees could not.
Chairman Johnson queried the Board to find if they should move forward regarding
WAPS. Member Browder is against further study in this area. Member’s Cudmore,
Pyatt and Vickrey would like to continue exploring WAPS. Chairman Johnson stated he
is not comfortable with the current proposal from IGT and would like a clearer
understanding of the responsibility for jackpot payments and believes modifications are
needed in the fee structure, the annuity structure, and in oversight of the computer
system and external advertising.
The Board also asked the Administrator to consider the issues raised, meet with IGT
and report back to the Board with recommendations.
ATM/CREDIT CARD ADVANCES - Administrator Belletire updated the Board on the
issue of ATM and credit card advances. He reported that owner licensees were queried
and asked to respond to a set of questions. Andy Duggan of Harrah’s, representing
eight of the ten owner licensees, summarized the position of the Illinois Casino Gaming
Association’s, ad hoc Credit Task Force.
Board Members stressed concern for, and asked questions about, significant charges
for ATM and credit card advance transactions. Mr. Duggan stated that the bank and
owner operators providing these services incur significant costs. He further stated that
the owner licensees are not making a large profit from these types of transactions. Mr.
Duggan stated that the patron acknowledges all service charges before funds are
dispensed.
Chairman Johnson reiterated his concern with market rates for services rendered. He
does not want to see higher fees charged at riverboats than are charged for similar
services at non-gambling businesses.

7

 POKER - Administrator Belletire stated that an owner licensee has requested that
Poker become an approved gambling game. Surveys from other gaming jurisdictions
and owner-licensees were provided to the Board.
Fred Renzey, a media columnist and advocate of poker, requested that the Board
consider approving Poker as a gambling game in Illinois. He provided the Board with
information supportive of his position.
Chairman Johnson deferred further
discussion/action of this topic until the December Board meeting.
SUPPLIER RULE/FINAL APPROVAL - Member Browder moved that the Board
approve the final submission of Board Rules 3000.240, 3000.241, 3000.242 and
3000.243 with the Secretary of State. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVE - Administrator Belletire asked the Board to approve
distribution of IGB proposed legislation to legislative leadership.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to go forward with
the proposed legislation and distribute it to the legislative leadership. Member
Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Cudmore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 3:25 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan A. Offord
Secretary of the Board

8

 