REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL

May 15, 2007

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also
Present:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Quigley, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Gorman, Peraica and
Steele (5)

Commissioners Beavers and Moreno (2)

Kevin Givens Director, Cook County Department of Environmental Control

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Environmental COntroI of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met

pursuant to notice on Tuesday, May 15, 2007 at the hour of 2:30 PM. in the Board Room, Room 569,
County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

283674

THE COOK COUNTY ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION
ACT (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
Forrest Claypool; and Mike Quiglev. County Commissioners; Co-sponsored by

Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorman, MikeQuigieyL, Roberto Maldonado, Anthony J. Peraica
and Peter N. Silvestri, County Commissioners.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

THE COOK COUNTY ENERGY EFFICIENCY
AND CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION ACT

WHEREAS, the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) provides a means for governments
and firms to enter into a voluntary, legally binding agreement to reduce their emissions
of six greenhouse gasses by 1.2 percent each year from 2006 to 2010; and

WHEREAS, the CCX operates under a standard ?cap-and-trade? system: each emitter
is allocated a certain number of credits and the number of credits is lowered each
successive year, allowing entities that reduce their emissions below their requirements
to sell credits and those that do not meet their requirements to purchase them; and

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, many governments?including the City of Chicago, King County,
Washington, and the State of Mexico?as well as many Fortune 500 companies?

including Ford, IBM, and DuPont?have joined the COX and committed themselves to
reduc?ons;and

WHEREAS, Chicago reduced its direct greenhouse gas emissions by nearly nine
percent from its baseline (an average of between 1998 and 2001) and 2003, a
reduction of over 30,000 tons of global warming pollution; and

WHEREAS, the City's steps to improve energy efficiency in City buildings led to the
auditing and retro?tting of 15 million square feet of public buildings, allowing the City
and sister agencies to save $6 million annually.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of

Commissioners that Chapter 30, Article Division 1, Section 30-326 be enacted as
follows:

Sec. 30-326
Short title.

This Ordinance shall be known as "The Cook County Climate Change
Mitigation Act.?

Joining the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX).

Cook County shall enter into Phase II of the CCX, committing to a

reduction of 1.2 percent of its greenhouse gas emissions each year
between 2006 and 2010.

The County will deliver energy consumption and other relevant data to
the CCX which will assist the County in creating an emissions baseline
from future reductions will be measured.

The County will develop a strategic plan within three months of the
passage of this ordinance that outlines where the County will cut
greenhouse gas emissions by the amounts required?or exceeding the
amounts required?in Phase II of CCX. This plan will be made publicly
available through the President's Web site.

As the emissions reduction plan is implemented, the County will sell

any extra emissions credits that it has on the online trading
platform.

Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 12/19/06.

Leave was granted to change the listing of sponsors and co-sponsors to include Chairman Quigley as
one of the sponsors of Communication No. 283674.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 3

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved the approval of
Communication No. 283674. The motion carried.

285200 AIR POLLUTION OPERATING FEES AND REGULATIONS CALLING
FOR THE REDUCTION IN REGULATED AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS FROM ALL
MINOR AND MAJOR SOURCE FACILITIES IN COOK COUNTY (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Todd H. Stroger,
President, Cook County Board of Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

AIR POLLUTION OPERATING FEES AND REGULATIONS
CALLING FOR THE REDUCTION IN REGULATED AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS
FROM ALL MINOR AND MAJOR SOURCE FACILITIES IN COOK COUNTY

WHEREAS, the Cook County area has been designated as an area of non-attainment
of suitable air quality and ozone standards by the United States Environmental

Protection Agency partially due to the air pollution emissions of the expansive
industrial businesses within its boundaries; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook have introduced a
number of air pollution reduction activities as an effort to diminish the detrimental
effects of air pollution on the residents of Cook County; and

WHEREAS, the accumulation of greenhouse gases and criteria pollutants in the

atmosphere are forming extremely high levels of ozone and adding to global warming;
and

WHEREAS, as the levels of pollutants increase in the Cook County area the number
of respiratory and cardiovascular related ailments proportionally increase; and

WHEREAS, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency have established regulatory standards in the areas

of permitting and reporting of air pollution sources in the efforts to track and reduce air
pollution levels; and

WHEREAS, in order to preserve, protect and improve the air resources of Cook
County so as to promote the health, safety, welfare and comfort of its residents, Cook
County shall take appropriate action in regulating air pollution within Cook County and

take efforts to promote the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all air pollution
source facilities.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 30, Article Division 4, Section 30-391 through 30-398
of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:

Division 4.
Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees
and Reductions in Regulated Air Pollutant_Emissions

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 4

Sec. 30-391. Recitals.

Sec. 30-392. Public Purpose.

Sec. 30-393. Regulated Air Pollutants.

Sec. 30-394. Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees.
Sec. 30-395. Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees.

Sec. 30-396. Rules and Regulations.

Sec. 30-397. Emission Levels Reduction.

Sec. 30-398. Effective Date.

Referred to the Committee on Environmental Control on 3101/07.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved the approval of
Communication No. 285200.

The Director of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control, Kevin Givens, gave a brief
summary of the Proposed Ordinance.

Vice Chairman Silvestri indicated that the members had recently received an Ordinance Amendment
from the Of?ce of the President and that it was the intention to amend the original Proposed Ordinance

by substituting the text in the document that had been distributed. This comprehensively amends the
Proposed Ordinance as originally presented.

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 285200
AIR POLLUTION OPERATING PERMITS

WHEREAS, the Cook County area has been designated as an area of non-attainment of suitable air
quality and ozone standards by the United States Environmental Protection Agency partially due to the
air pollution emissions of the expansive industrial businesses within its boundaries; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook has introduced a number of air

pollution reduction activities as an effort to diminish the detrimental effects of air pollution on, the
residents of Cook County; and

WHEREAS, the accumulation of greenhouse gases and criteria pollutants in the atmosphere is forming
extremely high levels of ozone and adding to global warming; and

WHEREAS, as the levels of pollutants in the Cook County area increases. the number of respiratory
and cardiovascular related ailments proportionally increase; and

WHEREAS, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency have established regulatory standards in the areas of permitting and reporting of air
pollution sources in an effort to track and reduce air pollution levels;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30,

Article Division IV, Sections 30?391 through 30-399 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances are
hereby enacted as follows:

Division IV. Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees and Reductions in Regulated Air Pollutant
Emissions

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 5

30-391 Recitals.

30-392 Public Purpose.

30-393 Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
30-394 Regulated Air Pollutants. -

30-395 Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.
30-396 Rules and Regulations.

30-397 Emission Levels Reduction.

30-398 Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.
30-399 Effective Date.

Section 30-391. Recitals. The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook ?nd
that all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct and do
incorporate them into this Ordinance by this reference.

Section 30-392. Public Purpose. It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose of
this Ordinance is to assist the Board and President in the preservation, protection and improvement of
the air resources in Cook County so as to promote the health, safety, welfare and comfort of its
residents. Cook County may take appropriate action to regulate air pollution within Cook County and
may promote the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all air pollution source facilities.

Section 30-393. Regulated Air Pollutants. "Regulated Air Pollutant? means the following:
Nitrogen oxides 

Carbon oxides (COX)

(0) Ammonia (NH3)

PM (Particulate Matter including PM10 and PM2.5)

Sulfur oxides 

Volatile Organic Compounds (V00)

(9) Lead (Pb)

Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard has been promulgated.

Section 30-394. Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall issue initial annual air pollution operating
permits beginning in 2007 and annual air pollution operating permits thereafter.

Section 30-395. Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.
Any owner of a site which is required by the State of Illinois to have an air pollution operating permit
shall also obtain a filing permit from the Cook County Department of Environmental Control within 30
days of receipt of its state permit and every three years thereafter. The owner also must pay annual
emissions fees based upon the tonnage of pollutants emitted.

This requirement does not apply to sites permitted by the Illinois Environmental Agency solely as (1)
retail liquid dispensing facilities that have air pollution control equipment or (2) agrichemical facilities
with an endorsed permit pursuant to Section 39.4 of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. The
owner or operator of a portable emission unit, as de?ned in 35 Adm. Code 201.170 of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act, may change the site of any unit previously permitted without paying an
additional fee under this Section for each site change, provided that no further change to the permit is
otherwise necessary or requested.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGES

Notwithstanding any rules to the contrary, the owner of a permitted site shall remit to the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control the following filing permit fees, payable every three years upon
obtaining or renewing a permit, and annual emissions fees:

(1) A site permitted to emit less than 25 tons per year of any combination of regulated air pollutants
as reported by its previous year Annual Illinois Air Emission Report (AER), shall pay a ?ling permit fee
of $1,000 plus an annual emissions fee of $5 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of
regulated air pollutants.

(2) A site permitted to emit at least 25 tons per year but less than 50 tons per year of any
combination of regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a ?ling permit
fee of $1,500 plus an annual emissions fee of $10 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of
regulated air pollutants.

(3) A site permitted to emit at least 50 tons but less than 100 tons per year of any combination of
regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a ?ling permit fee of $2,000 plus
an annual emissions fee of $15 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of regulated air
pollutants.

(4) A site permitted to emit at least 100 tons per year of any combination of regulated air pollutants
as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a filing permit fee of $2,500 plus an annual emissions
fee of $20 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of regulated air pollutants.

Section 30-396. Rules and Regulations.

The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall establish procedures for the collection
of air pollution filing permit and annual emissions fees.

The Cook County Department of Environmental Control (?Department") may deny an application for
the issuance, transfer, or renewal of an air pollution operating permit if any air pollution site fee owed by
the applicant has not been paid within 60 days of the due date, unless the applicant, at the time of
application, pays to the Department in advance the air pollution site fee for the site that is the subject of
the operating permit, plus any other air pollution site fees then owed by the applicant. The denial of an
air pollution operating permit for failure to pay an air pollution site fee shall be subject to review by the

County Environmental Control Board of Appeals pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 30, Article II,
Division 4. Section 30-123 of the Counties Code.

If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or operator of a
site was required, but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating permit, and as a result avoided
the payment of permit fees, the Department may collect the avoided permit fees with or without
pursuing enforcement. The avoided permit fees shall be calculated as double the amount that would
have been owed had a permit been timely obtained. Fees collected pursuant to this subsection shall be
deposited into the Cook County Environmental Management Fund

If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or operator of a
site was required, but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating permit and as a result avoided
the payment of permit fees, an enforcement action may be brought. In addition to any other relief that
may be obtained as part of this action, the Cook County Department of Environmental Control may
seek to recover the avoided permit fees. The avoided permit fees shall be calculated as double the
amount that would have been owed had a permit been timely obtained. Fees collected pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited into the Cook County General Fund.

If a Permittee subject to a fee under this Section fails to pay the fee within 90 days of its due date,
or makes the fee payment from an account with insufficient funds to cover the amount of the fee

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 7

payment, the Department shall notify the Permittee of the failure to pay the fee. If the Permittee fails to
pay the fee within 60 days after such notification, the Department may, by written notice, immediately
revoke the air pollution operating permit. Failure of the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control to notify the Permittee of failure to pay a fee due under this Section, or the payment of the fee
from an account with insufficient funds to cover the amount of the fee payment, does not excuse or
alter the duty of the Permittee to comply With the provisions of this Section.

Section 30-397. Emission Levels Reduction. Permit Holders for sites where the levels of
pollution emissions exceed 100 tons per year of cumulative regulated air pollutants shall be required to
submit an annual ?Regulated Air Pollutant Emission Reduction Plan" to the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control for the Department?s approval. Said plan shall detail efforts that will be made to

decrease the Site?s cumulative regulated pollutant emissions by 10% within the term of the air pollution
operating permit.

Annual Regulated Air Pollutant Emission Reduction Plans submitted to the Cook County

Department of Environmental Control will be veri?ed by reviewing the Site/Permitee's Illinois Annual Air
Emission Report (AER).

Established Regulated Air Pollutant emission reductions exceeding 10% on an annual basis will
allow a 10% credit reduction of the following year annual air permit fee.

(0) Failure to reduce Regulated Air Pollutant emissions as indicated in the County approved Reduction
Plan may result in penalty fees or loss of permit.

Section 30-398, Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.
Each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit its Illinois AER to the Cook County Department of

Environmental Control within 1 month of the submittal of the AER to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.

Additionally, each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit quarterly reports detailing the

individual pollution emission levels for its fuel burning devices and cumulative values of pollution
emissions within the quarterly period.

Section 30-399. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect within ninety (90) days of passage.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved to accept the Substitute

Ordinance for Communication No. 285200. The motion to accept the Substitute Ordinance
carried.

After discussion, Mr. Givens stated that over the next several weeks his department would formulate a
concrete and definitive course of action to address the State?s Attorney?s opinion regarding overlap
between the municipal, county and state governments in enforcing environmental violations.

Commissioner Peraica, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, moved to defer consideration of

the Substitute Ordinance for Communication No. 285200, as amended. The motion to defer the-
Substitute Ordinance carried.

Chairman Quigley asked the Secretary to call on the following public speakers:

1. Douglas Chien Sierra Club

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT

MAY 15, 2007
PAGE 8
2. Anna Frostic, Esq. Environmental Health Advocate-American Lung Association
Metropolitan Chicago
3. George Biakemore Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Peraica moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE
MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 283674 Approved

Communication Number 285200 Substitute Ordinance Deferred

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Environmental Control

I
@769 
Mike Quigi?E-y, Chair/m1?

Attest: 75 

/Mail.thew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

AIR POLLUTION OPERATING PERMITS

WHEREAS, the Cook County area has been designated as an area of non-attainment of suitable
air quality and ozone standards by the United States Environmental Protection Agency partially
due to the air pollution emissions of the expansive industrial businesses within its boundaries; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook has introduced a number of air

pollution reduction activities as an effort to diminish the detrimental effects of air pollution on the
residents of Cook County; and

WHEREAS, the accumulation of greenhouse gases and criteria pollutants in the atmosphere is
forming extremely high levels of ozone and adding to global warming; and

WHEREAS, as the levels of pollutants in the Cook County area increases, the number of
respiratory and cardiovascular related ailments proportionally increase; and

WHEREAS, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency have established regulatory standards in the areas of permitting and reporting
of air pollution sources in an effort to track and reduce air pollution levels;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that

Chapter 30, Article Division IV, Sections 30?391 through 30-399 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances are hereby enacted as follows:

Division IV. Air Pollution Operating Permits and Site Fees and Reductions in Regulated Air
Pollutant Emissions
30-391 Recitals.
30-392 Public Purpose.
30?393 Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
30-394 Regulated Air Pollutants.
30-395 Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.
30-396 Rules and Regulations.
30-397 Emission Levels Reduction.
30?398 Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.
30-399 Effective Date.

Section 30-391. Recitals. The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook
?nd that all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct
and do incorporate them into this Ordinance by this reference.

Section 30-392. Public Purpose. It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose
of this Ordinance is to assist the Board and President in the preservation, protection and
improvement of the air resources in Cook County so as to promote the health, safety, welfare and
comfort of its residents. Cook County may take appropriate action to regulate air pollution within

Cook County and may promote the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all air pollution
source facilities.

Section 30?393. Regulated Air Pollutants. ?Regulated Air Pollutant? means the following:
Nitrogen oxides 

Carbon oxides (COX)

(0) Ammonia (NH3)

 PM (Particulate Matter including PM10 and PM2.5)

Sulfur oxides 

Volatile Organic Compounds (V 0C)

Lead (Pb)

Any pollutant for which a national ambient air quality standard has been promulgated.

Section 30-394. Authority to Issue Air Pollution Operating Permits and Fees.
The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall issue initial annual air pollution
operating permits beginning in 2007 and annual air pollution Operating permits thereafter.

Section 30-395. Air Pollution Filing Permit Fees and Annual Emissions Fees.

Any owner of a site which is required by the State of Illinois to have an air pollution operating
permit shall also obtain a ?ling permit from the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control within 30 days of receipt of its state permit and every three years thereafter. The owner
also must pay annual emissions fees based upon the tonnage of pollutants emitted.

This requirement does not apply to sites permitted by the Illinois Environmental Agency solely as
(1) retail liquid dispensing facilities that have air pollution control equipment or (2) agrichemical
facilities with an endorsed permit pursuant to Section 39.4 of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act. The owner or operator of a portable emission unit, as de?ned in 35 Ill. Adm.
Code 201.170 of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, may change the site of any unit
previously permitted without paying an additional fee under this Section for each site change,
provided that no further change to the permit is otherwise necessary or requested.

Notwithstanding any rules to the contrary, the owner of a permitted site shall remit to theCook
County Department of Environmental Control the following ?ling permit fees, payable every
three years upon obtaining or renewing a permit, and annual emissions fees:

(1) A site permitted to emit less than 25 tons per year of any combination of regulated air
pollutants as reported by its previous year Annual Illinois Air Emission Report (AER), shall pay a
?ling permit fee of $1,000 plus an annual emissions fee of $5 per ton of the total tonnage of any
combination of regulated air pollutants.

(2) A site permitted to emit at least 25 tons per year but less than 50 tons per year of any
combination of regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a ?ling
permit fee of $1,500 plus an annual emissions fee of $10 per ton of the total tonnage of any
combination of regulated air pollutants.

(3) A site permitted to emit at least 50 tons but less than 100 tons per year of any
combination of regulated air pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a ?ling
permit fee of $2,000 plus an annual emissions fee of $15 per ton of the total tonnage of any
combination of regulated air pollutants.

(4) A site permitted to emit at least 100 tons per year of any combination of regulated air
pollutants as reported by its previous year AER, shall pay a ?ling permit fee of $2,500 plus an
annual emissions fee of $20 per ton of the total tonnage of any combination of regulated air
pollutants.

Section 30-396. Rules and Regulations.
The Cook County Department of Environmental Control shall establish procedures for the
collection of air pollution ?ling permit and annual emissions fees.

The Cook County Department of Environmental Control (?Department?) may deny an
application for the issuance, transfer, or renewal of an air pollution operating permit if any air
pollution site fee owed by the applicant has not been paid within 60 days of the due date, unless

the applicant, at the time of application, pays to the Department in advance the air pollution site
fee for the site that is the subject of the operating permit, plus any other air pollution site fees then
owed by the applicant. The denial of an air pollution operating permit for failure to pay an air
pollution site fee shall be subject to review by the County Environmental Control Board of
Appeals pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 30, Article II, Division 4. Section 30-123 of the
Counties Code.

If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or
operator of a site was required, but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating pemit, and
as a result avoided the payment of permit fees, the Department may collect the avoided permit
fees with or without pursuing enforcement. The avoided permit fees shall be calculated as double
the amount that would have been owed had a permit been timely obtained. Fees collected

pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into the Cook County Environmental Management
Fund

If the Cook County Department of Environmental Control determines that an owner or
operator of a site was required,'but failed, to timely obtain an air pollution operating permit and
as a result avoided the payment of permit fees, an enforcement action may be brought. In
addition to any other relief that may be obtained as part of this action, the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control may seek to recover the avoided permit fees. The avoided
permit fees shall be calculated as double the amount that would have been owed had a permit
been timely obtained. Fees collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into the
Cook County General Fund.

If a Permittee subject to a fee under this Section fails to pay the fee within 90 days of its due
date, or makes the fee payment from an account with insuf?cient funds to cover the amount of the
fee payment, the Department shall notify the Permittee of the failure to pay the fee. If the
Permittee fails to pay the fee within 60 days after such noti?cation, the Department may, by
written notice, immediately revoke the air pollution operating permit. Failure of the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control to notify the Permittee of failure to pay a fee due under this
Section, or the payment of the fee from an account with insuf?cient funds to cover the amount of

the fee payment, does not excuse or alter the duty of the Permittee to comply with the provisions
of this Section.

Section 30-397. Emission Levels Reduction. Permit Holders for sites where the levels of
pollution emissions exceed 100 tons per year of cumulative regulated air pollutants shall be
required to submit an annual ?Regulated Air Pollutant Emission Reduction Plan? to the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control for the Department?s approval. Said plan shall
detail efforts that will be made to decrease the Site?s cumulative regulated pollutant emissions by
10% within the term of the air pollution operating permit.

(21) Annual Regulated Air Pollutant Emission Reduction Plans submitted to the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control will be veri?ed by reviewing the Site/Permitee?s Illinois
Annual Air Emission Report (AER).

Established Regulated Air Pollutant emission reductions exceeding 10% on an annual basis
will allow a 10% credit reduction of the following year annual air permit fee.

Failure to reduce Regulated Air Pollutant emissions as indicated in the County approved
Reduction Plan may result in penalty fees or loss of permit.

Section 30-398, Required Submission of Illinois Annual Air Emission Report.

Each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit its Illinois AER to the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control within 1 month of the submittal of the AER to the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.

Additionally, each Site/Permittee shall be required to submit quarterly reports detailing the
individual pollution emission levels for its fuel buming devices and cumulative values of
pollution emissions within the quarterly period.

Section 30-399. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect within ninety (90) days of
passage.

