Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee Minutes
Wednesday, April 13, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,

Absent:

Suffredin and Tobolski (12)
Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Silvestri asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, concerned citizen

16-2558
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/23/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)
SPECIAL USE

16-2053
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU 15-11
Page 1 of 13

 Township: Orland
County District: 17
Property Address: 17101 South Wolf Road, Orland Park, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 5.9 acres and generally located on the
southeast corner of Wolf Road and 171st Street, in Section 29, in unincorporated Orland Township.
Owner: Avmedoski Brothers, LLC, 8673 Sunshine Lane, Oak Park, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: Gregory Dose Esq. of the Goldstine, Skrodzki, Russian, Nemec and Hoff, Ltd.,835
McClintock Drive, Burr Ridge, Illinois.
Current Zoning: C-4 General Commercial District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a Special Use for the operation of a school bus service and maintenance facility
in unincorporated Orland Township.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is of Approval with Conditions.
Conditions:
1. Limit the proposed use at the existing building at the current size.
2. Limit the repair work to Monday through Friday from 7:00 AM to 5:30 PM.
3. The service work within the facility shall be limited to minor maintenance, such as fluid changes, tire
changes, tune-ups, and replacement of lights, batteries, belts and windshield wipers; and no body work,
painting, brake testing, or engine rebuilding shall be performed within the facility. No heavy mechanical
work.
4. No outside contractors, only employees are to be used on site for repair work.
5. Only school buses and passenger vehicles be parked on the Subject Property. No tractor trailers are to be
parked on the Subject Property.
6. No more than two 2500 lbs. tanks are to be used for storage on the Subject Property.
7. On-site fuel tanks shall be installed above Flood Protection Elevation in accordance with the County
Floodplains Ordinance Sec. 106-9(1)a. It states that no installation in a flood zone that contains
flammable liquids or other hazardous materials can be below the “flood protection elevation (FPE).” In
Sec. 106-2 of the Floodplains Ordinance, “Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)” is defined as “the
elevation of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood plus two feet of freeboard….” Hence, the
provision would address concern that fuel containers be situated well above flood level so their contents
will not be released into flood waters and damage other property.
Objectors: On Tuesday, 2/16/2016, the Zoning Board of Appeals received a Resolution from the Village of
Orland Park, objecting to the proposed Special Use Application.
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
1/20/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/2/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Zoning and Building recommended for deferral Committee
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Board of Commissioners deferred

Page 2 of 13

 A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this Zoning
Board of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following
vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)
SPECIAL USE & VARIATIONS

15-2563
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Special Use SU 14-06 & Variation V 14-55
Township: Schaumburg
County District: 15
Property Address: 540 Martingale Road, Schaumburg Township, Schaumburg, Illinois
Property Description: The subject property consists of approximately 8.003 acres. It measures 460.03 feet on
the north line, 560.70 feet on the south line, 683.65 on the west line and 686.76 on the east line.
Owner: Shree Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Temple and Cultural Centre "Haridham" Sokhada Inc DBA
YDS (not for profit corporation), 4074 South Archer Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: Richard E. Zulkey, 77 W. Washington Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, Illinois
Current Zoning: R-3 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a Special Use for a PUD and a variation (V 14-55) in a R-3 Single Family
Residence District on a property that is designated as an environmentally sensitive area in the Cook County
Comprehensive Land Use Map 1999, to construct a Hindu Temple, cultural center and living quarters for the
Temple caretaker and Idol.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
3/16/2016 ZBA
Recommendation is that the application be granted a one year extension of time.
Conditions: Section 1: BACKGROUND That the following described Subject Property be granted with
conditions a Special Use for a PUD Permit in a in a R-3 Single Family Residence District that is designated as
an environmentally sensitive area in the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use Map 1999, to construct a
Temple, cultural center and living quarters for the Idol and Temple caretaker (comp V 14-55 to reduce front yard
setback from the minimum required 50 feet to 44 feet) in Section 25 of Schaumburg Township and,
Section 2: DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Page 3 of 13

 That part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 25, Township 41 North, Range 10 East of Third Principal Meridian,
described as follows:
Beginning at a point of the East line of said section, distance 1315.48 feet South from the North line of said
section; thence South along the East line 683.10 feet; thence West 670.70 feet; Thence North 683.10 feet to a
point distant 660 feet West from the East line of said section; thence East parallel with the North line of said
section to the point of beginning (excepting therefrom that part thereof lying easterly of a straight line extending
from a point on the North line of the above described tract distant 200 feet West (as measured along said North
line) of the East line of the Northeast Quarter of said section; thence Southeasterly along a straight line a distance
of 693.003 feet more or less to a point of the South line of said tract distant 110 feet West of said East line of the
Northeast Quarter of Section 25) in Cook County, Illinois.
The Subject Property has a commonly known address is 540 Martingale Road, Schaumburg, Illinois, in the
Township of Schaumburg, unincorporated Cook County, Illinois.
Section 3: That the Special Use in the R-3 Single Family Residence District as mentioned in Section 1 of this
Ordinance is hereby authorized.
Section 4: SPECIAL USE That this Ordinance under the provisions of Section l3.8.9 of the Cook County
Zoning Ordinance be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval, except that if said use is not
established within one year as provided in Section 13.8.14 said Special Use for shall be null and void. That said
Subject Property be developed and constructed pursuant to the detailing set forth in the testimony and contained
in the exhibits and Findings of the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals hereby incorporated by reference into
the Ordinance, as provided by law.
Objectors:

None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/4/2015, 3/25/2015 & 3/16/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/16/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
Legislative History: 4/29/15 Zoning and Building Committee recommended for approval as amended
Legislative History: 4/29/15 Board of Commissioners approved as amended
A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)

16-2109
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 13-14
Page 4 of 13

 Township: Northfield
County District: 14
Property Address: 3471 Whirlaway Drive, Northbrook, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 1.09 of an acre, located on the west side
of Whirlaway Drive approximately 540 feet north of Cornflower Trail, in Section 17.
Owner: Aneta Jakubczyk, 2269 Greenview Road, Northbrook, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to the 2001 Cook County Zoning Ordinance, as amended, in an R-4
Single Family Residence District to: (1) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum required 15
feet to a proposed 10 feet and (2) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum required 15 feet to
a proposed 10 feet. Variance is sought to construct a new residence with attached garage.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application as amended be granted retro-actively from
March 4, 2014-March 4, 2015 and March 4, 2016 to March 4, 2017.
Conditions:

None

Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
3/2/2016 & 3/16/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 3/2/2016 & 3/16/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this Zoning Board
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)

16-2292
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
VAULT TOILETS

Page 5 of 13

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 102 BUILDINGS AND
BUILDING REGULATIONS, ARTICLE III-BUILDING CODE, Section 102-136 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 102-136
When a connection to a central sewerage system or a central water system is not reasonably available for a
building or use due to factors beyond the control of the owner, including but not limited to distance, cost, terrain,
physical impediments, and unavailability:
(a) An individual sewage disposal system may be approved by the Building Commissioner, with the
assistance of the Cook County Department of Public Health and the Illinois Department of Public Health,
in conformity with 77 Illinois Administrative Code, Part 905.
(b) In recreational areas, pit or vault privies may be approved by the Building Commissioner, with the
assistance of the Cook County Department of Public Health and the Illinois Department of Public Health,
in conformity with 77 Illinois Administrative Code, Part 800, subpart D, and subpart I.
(c) An alternative or private water source may be approved by the Building Commissioner, with the
assistance of the Cook County Department of Public Health and the Illinois Department of Public Health,
in conformity with 77 Illinois Administrative Code, Part 900.
(d) In recreational areas, an alternative water source may be approved by the Building Commissioner,
with the assistance of the Cook County Department of Public Health and the Illinois Department of
Public Health, in conformity with 77 Illinois Administrative Code, Part 800, subpart C, and subpart I.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Board of Commissioners Committee referred to the Zoning and Building
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)

Page 6 of 13

 16-1664
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, LUIS ARROYO JR, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner JERRY BUTLER, SEAN M. MORRISON, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE and JOHN P. DALEY,
County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CREATION OF CRANE OPERATORS REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the registration of crane operators is a matter of public safety pertaining to the government and
affairs of the County; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively protect the public health, general welfare and
safety of its citizens the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Crane Operators Registration
requirement for work performed on construction, rehabilitation, repair or demolition projects in Cook County;
and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Board of Commissioners establishes a registration
requirement for individuals operating cranes in the County of Cook; and,
BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development Ordinances,
Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Article IV, Crane Operator Registration, Section 102-160
through 102-170 is hereby enacted as follows:
Article IV. Crane Operator Registration
Sec. 102-160.Crane Operation in Cook County.
Effective December 1, 2016, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any crane, as defined in this section, on
any construction, rehabilitation, repair or demolition project undertaken within Cook County, as provided in
Section 102-104(3) of this Code without first having registered as a crane operator. It shall be unlawful to
employ any person or to permit or direct any person on such a project to operate a crane as defined in this
chapter on or after December 1, 2016 unless such person has registered as a crane operator as provided herein.
Sec. 102-161.Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following means
ascribed to them in this article, except were the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Approved accredited certifying entity means any organization whose certification program for crane operators is
accredited by the City of Chicago or its equivalent. Equivalency to the City of Chicago certification program
shall be determined by the Building Commissioner and provided for on the crane operator certification application
or issued by rule or regulation.
Building Commissioner means the head of the Building and Zoning Department of the County of Cook, as set
forth in Section 102-105 of the Building Code, or the Building Commissioner’s designee.
Page 7 of 13

 Crane means any power-operated mechanical hoisting equipment with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of one ton
(2000 pounds) or more that lifts, lowers, rotates or moves a load horizontally or vertically. Such equipment
includes, but is not limited to: (1) Articulating cranes, including knuckle-boom cranes used to deliver material on
to a structure with or without a properly functioning automatic overload prevention device; (2) crawler cranes; (3)
floating cranes; (4) cranes on barges; (5) locomotive cranes; (6) mobile cranes, such as wheel-mounted,
rough-terrain, all-terrain, commercial truck-mounted, and boom truck cranes; (7) multi-purpose machines when
configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load; (8)
industrial cranes (such as carry deck cranes); (9) service/mechanic trucks with a hoisting device; (10) cranes on
monorails; (11) tower cranes (such as a fixed jib, i.e. “hammerhead boom”), luffing boom and self-erecting; (12)
pedestal cranes; (13) portal cranes; (14) overhead and gantry cranes; (15) derricks; (16) powered window washing
units if used to erect portions of a building; (17) track backhoes if used to erect portions of a structure; (18) rack
and pinion/skips; (19) Chicago booms; (20) hydraulic crawler/hydraulic truck cranes (lattice booms); (21)
drumhoists; (22) variations of the equipment listed in items (1) through (21) of this definition; and (23) any other
equipment that the Building Commissioner reasonably determines is appropriately characterized as a crane as set
forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the Building Commissioner. The term “crane” does not
include (i) dedicated pile drivers; (ii) straddle cranes; (iii) sideboom cranes; (iv) elevators; (v) powered window
washing units unless the unit is used to erect portions of a building; (vi) skid steers; (vii) all-terrain forklifts unless
the forklift is configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended
load; (viii) mast-climbing work platforms, but shall include booms attached to mast-climbing work platforms if
the boom has a manufacturer’s rated capacity of one ton (2000 pounds) or more; (ix) any equipment listed in
subsection (c) of 29 CFR 1926.1400 unless such equipment is listed in items (1) through (23), inclusive, of this
definition; (x) variations of the equipment set forth in items (i) through (ix) of this definition; and (xi) any other
equipment that the Building Commissioner reasonably determines is not appropriately characterized as a crane as
set forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the Building Commissioner.
Department means the Building and Zoning Department of the County of Cook.
Registered Crane Operator means any person registered or required to be registered under this Section.
Sec. 102-162.Application for registration.
(a)In order to register as a crane operator under this article, the applicant for crane operator registration must
complete and file an application with the Building Commissioner on a form provided by the Department and
satisfy the County’s crane operator requirements as determined by the Building Commissioner and provided for in
the application.
(b)To qualify for registration and be approved as a crane operator in Cook County, the applicant must provide
evidence on a form acceptable to the Building Commissioner that:
(1)The applicant is at least 21 years old;
(2)The applicant is certified as a crane operator by an approved accredited certifying entity;
(3)The applicant has worked as a crane operator for at least 2,000 hours during the preceding
48-month period or that the applicant has completed an apprenticeship program that is recognized
by an approved accredited certifying entity;
(4)The applicant has not had a crane operator’s or comparable registration suspended or revoked
by the County or any other jurisdiction or a crane operator’s license suspended or revoked by any
other jurisdiction; provided, however, that upon good cause shown and after a full investigation,
the Building Commissioner may waive this prohibition;
Page 8 of 13

 (5)The applicant has no history of substance abuse during the preceding three years or that the
applicant has successfully completed a certified substance abuse rehabilitation program;
(6)The applicant has the present physical ability to safely operate a crane; and
(7)The applicant has the ability to read, write, and speak English at a level that allows effective
communication on the job site.
Sec. 102-163.Registration fees.
The fee for initial registration of all crane operators shall be one hundred five ($105.00) dollars, which sum shall
be paid by the applicant for registration in advance and upon filing the application for registration; provided,
however, that any registrant may renew his registration upon the payment of an annual renewal fee of fifty-two
dollars and fifty cents. ($52.50).
Sec. 102-164.Carrying registration while operating crane – Required.
At all times while operating a crane, the crane operator shall carry his or her registration on his or her person.
Failure to produce a crane operator’s registration upon request of the Building Commissioner or his representative
while operating a crane within Cook County, as provided in Section 102-104(3) shall be punishable by a fine of
$200.00.
Sec. 102-165.Notification of accident or safety issue – Required.
It shall be the duty of each crane operator or person employing such crane operator to immediately report
to the Department any and all accidents or safety issue(s) regarding the operation, assembly, disassembly, or
jumping of a crane.
Sec. 102-166.Safe equipment – Required.
(a) All crane equipment shall be kept in safe working condition at all times by the owner of the crane
equipment and the registered crane operator.
(b) If any safety device or operational aid used or required to be used in connection with the operation of a
crane is not working properly, the person operating such crane shall immediately shut down the crane
until the required safety device or operational aid is repaired or replaced and the crane is restored to
proper working order.
(c) The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations to protect the public safety in
connection with the operation, maintenance, assembly, disassembly, or jumping of cranes. Such
regulations may include any structural, communication, reporting or other requirements deemed by the
Building Commissioner to be necessary or appropriate to securing the safety of the crane operator or
the general public.
Sec. 102-167. Failure to comply with rules and regulations – Unlawful act.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any applicable rule or regulation duly promulgated by the Building
Commissioner under this chapter.
Sec. 102-168. Registration – Duration, revocation, suspension, and nonrenewal.
(a)

All applications for registration as a crane operator shall be made in such form and accompanied
by such information as required by the Department.
Page 9 of 13

 (b)

Every application for a registration fee as shall accompany registration set forth in Section
102-163 and Chapter 32, said fee shall be payable to the Cook County Collector.

(c)

Each registration will run concurrent to Cook County’s fiscal year, December 1 through
November 30. Each registration may be renewed provided that the registered crane operator
submits a renewal application prior to registration expiration. New applicants shall submit an
application for a crane operator registration prior to operating a crane in Cook County.

(d)

No registration shall be transferable to another person.

(e)

The Department shall have the authority to deny, suspend, or revoke a registration if it determines
the registrant has failed to comply with any provision of this Section. The notice of denial,
nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation will include a statement informing the registrant of his/her
right to appeal the Department’s determination. Any registrant wishing to appeal the denial,
nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation of a registration must, within 28 calendar days of the date
on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation, serve the Commissioner of
Building and Zoning with written notification of the person’s request for appeal by certified mail,
return receipt requested, with a brief statement of the grounds for the appeal. After receiving the
request, the Commissioner of Building and Zoning shall refer the request to the Cook County
Department of Administrative Hearings for a hearing officer, administrative law officer, or
administrative law judge to be appointed to conduct the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted
in accordance with Cook County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX,
Administrative Hearings. If after the administrative hearing the Department of Administrative
Hearings reverses the determination of the Department, then the Department shall lift the
suspension, reinstate the registration, or issue a new registration in accordance with Department
policy or procedures. However, a determination issued by the Department of Administrative
Hearings in favor of the registrant does not forfeit the Department right to file an appeal with the
Circuit Court. If the Department finds that the registrant is in compliance with this article, then
the Department shall lift the suspension, reinstate the registration, or issue a new registration.

Sec. 102-169. Rule Making and Enforcement.
The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations as are necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon it by this article.
Sec. 102-170. -Violation – Penalty.
(a)

(b)

Any person who operates a crane without meeting the requirements of this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more
than $10,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
Any person who employs an unregistered person as a crane operator or who permits or directs an
unregistered person to operate a crane shall be subject to a fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more
than $30,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
Page 10 of 13

 BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development
Ordinances, Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Section 102-104(3) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 102-104 – General provisions.
***
(3) Scope of regulations.
***
4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Chapter 102, Article IV of this Code shall have applicability throughout the
County of Cook, except within any municipality which has an ordinance governing crane operators. In such
case, the municipal ordinance shall prevail within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part II Land Development
Ordinances, Chapter 102 – Buildings and Building Regulations, Section 102-105(4)3.a of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 102-105 – Administration and Enforcement.
***
(4) Enforcement.
***
3. Methods of Enforcement.
a. Registration for Building Work.
(1) Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of constructing, altering, repairing, relocating, or
demolishing the whole or any part of buildings or structures, or appurtenances thereto, within the unincorporated
area of Cook County, shall, before undertaking the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair, relocation, or
demolition of any building or structure for which permits are required by this Ordinance, register in person with
the Building Commissioner at the offices of the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the name and
address of such person, firm or corporation in a book kept by the Building Commissioner and used for this
purpose. In the case of a firm or corporation, the names of each individual comprising the firm and the names of
each officer or a corporation shall be so registered. No permit shall be granted for the erection, enlargement,
alteration, repair, relocation, or demolition of any building or structure unless the name and address of the person
that is about to undertake such work is contained in the registration book kept for that purpose. The registration
requirement for "in-person" registration of persons, firms, and corporations engaged in the business of
constructing, altering, repairing, relocating, or demolishing buildings or structures set forth herein, shall be for the
original or initial registration of such person, firm, or corporation. Any subsequent registration or re-registration
of a person, firm, or corporation, whose name is contained in the registration book, may be done in person or
electronically by signature affidavit as provided by the Code, the Building Commissioner, or the policy of the
Cook County Department of Building and Zoning.
(2) Installation or alteration of electrical equipment shall be done only by a registered electrical contractor,
regardless of who is issued a permit.
(3) Prior to the commencement of actual construction for which a permit has been issued, the permit shall file
with the Building Commissioner, on a form provided by the Building Commissioner, the name of the person(s),
firm(s), or corporation(s), engaged to perform the work. When the work is to be subcontracted, the party engaged
for each subcontract shall also be listed. The Building Commissioner shall then determine that the name and
address of this person(s), firm(s), or corporation(s) is (are) contained in the registration book. No construction
work shall commence until the Building Commissioner certifies that the contractor(s) is (are) duly registered.

Page 11 of 13

 (4) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (4) above, a person desiring to be registered as an electrical
contractor shall be registered for the current year as an electrical contractor in a city or village within the State of
Illinois in conformity with the appropriate state statutes.
(5) If any person, firm or corporation registered as provided by this section, shall fail in the execution of any work
or fail to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance relative to the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair,
relocation, or demolition of any building, or part thereof, at least three times within two calendar years, the
Building Commissioner, after notice to such person, firm or corporation that he, she, or it has three such failures
or violations, shall remove or strike such person’s, firm’s, or corporation’s name from the registration book. For
persons, firms, or corporations that have one such failure or violation, the Building Commissioner shall request
the State’s Attorney to bring suit and to prosecute such person, firm or corporation for such failure or violation,
and in the case of a finding of guilty, his name shall be removed or stricken from the registration book. In either
case, such person’s, firm’s, or corporation’s name shall not be re-entered or reinstated during such time as the
failure or violation exists or any judgment remains unsatisfied with regard to said finding, or until the Building
Commissioner determines that such person, firm, or corporation should be re-entered or reinstated.
(6) Any person, firm, or corporation that shall have been found guilty under the preceding Section may have his
name re-entered on the registration book upon filing with the Building Commissioner a certificate signed by the
State’s Attorney, the Building Commissioner and the Health Officer to the effect that all violations of the Code
with reference to which the finding of guilty was secured have been corrected or are nonexistent and that all
claims and judgments arising from such convictions have been paid.
(7) (i) Prior to the registration of any contractor, the contractor shall present to the Building Commissioner at the
time of registration, proof of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00.
(ii) Prior to the registration of a plumbing contractor, the contractor shall file with the Cook County Clerk, and
present to the Building Commissioner at the time of registration, an indemnifying bond with good and sufficient
sureties in the penal sum of $20,000.00, such bond being payable to the County of Cook, for the use of any
persons with whom such contractor may thereafter contract to do work, to indemnify any such persons and the
County of Cook for damages sustained due to the failure of such contractor to perform the work so contracted for
in accordance with the provisions and requirements of the Cook County building regulations, the approved permit
plans, or the contract between the contractor and such person(s). In addition, such contractor shall present to the
Building Commissioner at the time of registration, proof of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.
****
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32, Fees, of the
Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. - Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
CHAPTER 102, BUILDING CODE, ARTICLE IV. CRANE OPERATOR REGISTRATION
102-163

Initial Crane Operator Registration

105.00

102-163

Crane Operator Registration Annual Renewal

52.50

Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall take effect 90 days after passage.

Legislative History: 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Zoning and Building Committee
Legislative History: 3/2/16 Zoning and Building recommended for deferral Committee
Page 12 of 13

 Legislative History: 3/2/16 Board of Commissioners deferred
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Zoning and Building accepted as substituted Committee
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Zoning and Building recommended for deferral Committee
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer to accept the substitute, seconded by Commissioner
Suffredin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore (5)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Silvestri, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Sims, Steele,
Suffredin and Tobolski(12)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Murphy, Arroyo, Fritchey, García and Moore(5)

Respectfully submitted,

__________________________________

______________________________

Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 13 of 13

 