Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, November 16, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

16-6363
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/26/16

16-6302
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 10/5/2016.

16-6303
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the special meeting held on 10/13/2016

 16-4645
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and JOHN P. DALEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING CONSENT
CALENDAR ITEMS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-105 (g) and
(j)(3)
-Meetings of the Board of the Cook County of the Cook County Code is are hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
…
(g) Order of business.
(1) At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by
the Board) is as follows:
a. Public testimony.
b. Consent calendar
c. a. New Business
d. b. Committee Items Requiring Board action
(2) The Board may grant members of the public leave to speak on items pending before the
Board pursuant to the rules set forth in Section 2-105(i).
(3) All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding officer,
without debate, subject to appeal.
(4) Meetings of the Board may commence with a prayer or invocation and the Pledge of
Allegiance.
…
(3) Consent calendar. The Consent Calendar is a compilation of proposed resolutions concerning deaths,
anniversaries, and congratulations for notable achievements. Only proposed resolutions conforming to
this description may be submitted to the Secretary for inclusion on the Consent Calendar, and it shall be
the duty of the Secretary to prepare the Consent Calendar for any regular meeting of the Board.
Proposed resolutions on the Consent Calendar are non-debatable, and shall not be read in to the record
or otherwise considered individually, but shall be part of a motion to approve the Consent Calendar in its
entirety. Any item on the Consent Calendar may be removed by a motion, seconded and approved, and
shall then be subject to the provisions of this division as provided herein. Once a month, a Special
Meeting of the Board shall be called at 9:00 am of the morning, preceding the regular meeting of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners when such meeting is convened at
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602. The purpose of the Special Meeting will be to consider
proposed Consent Resolutions concerning deaths, anniversaries and congratulations for notable
achievements. Such Special Meetings shall have as the only agenda items the reading of the resolution,
discussion of the resolution and the taking of a photo. In the months where there is no Forest Preserve
meeting at 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602, a Special Meeting of the Board may be called
for purposes of the Consent Calendar.
…
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on December 1, 2016.

Page 2 of 3

 Legislative History: 8/3/16 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Rules and Administration
Committee
Legislative History: 9/14/16 - Rules and Administration Committee - accept as substituted
Legislative History: 9/14/16 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral
Legislative History: 9/14/16 - Board of Commissioners - defer
Legislative History: 10/5/16 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral
Legislative History: 10/26/16 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral

_______________________________
Matthew DeLeon
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Daley
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 3 of 3

 