MARCH 22, 2010
NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the Information Technology and Automation Committee of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Tuesday, April 6, 2010 at the hour of 9:45 A.M. in
the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to
consider the following:
304791

CONSOLIDATION OF COOK COUNTY’S TECHNOLOGY (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Gregg Goslin,
Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Timothy O. Schneider, Todd H. Stroger, President,
William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley,
Bridget Gainer, Joseph Mario Moreno, Joan Patricia Murphy, Anthony J. Peraica,
Edwin Reyes, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele and Larry
Suffredin, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION AMENDED
CONSOLIDATION OF COOK COUNTY’S TECHNOLOGY
WHEREAS, Cook County has struggled for years to seek out the best approach to
address the technology requirements of all entities under the auspices of the
County; and
WHEREAS, there has been resistance among some elected officials to consolidate
into the County’s main technology system due to concerns with privacy; and
WHEREAS, it has become evident that the County cannot continue financially to
fund separate or proprietary technology plans for different agencies and
departments under the umbrella of the County; and
WHEREAS, technology funding outside of the Bureau of Technology is significant:
automation funding is $30 million with 240 FTE’s; document storage costs are $26
million with 192 FTE’s; and technology related to the 260 and 579 accounts is over
$50 million annually; and

 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND AUTOMATION COMMITTEE NOTICE
MARCH 22, 2010
PAGE 2
WHEREAS, it is clear that consolidation across all areas of technology will improve
efficiencies and save the County money, in 2010 the Bureau of Technology will
save $700,000 by consolidating the iSeries system into the mainframe and
$450,000 by transitioning phone system maintenance to existing staff; and
WHEREAS, of paramount importance in the consolidation process are privacy
issues for independent elected officials, and ensuring the integrity and
confidentiality of important information. The Bureau of Technology has already
proven this can be accomplished as has been done in Maricopa, Los Angeles and
Miami Dade Counties in their IT consolidation programs; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board previously approved the consolidated
approach to hardware, software and technology related services, the County must
now take the next step to consolidate all technology investments, systems and
applications.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Bureau of Technology will
prepare to centralize technology throughout the County by: preparing an Enterprise
Architectural Plan for all County IT operations; consolidate all IT spending including
oversight of special purpose funds; continue to build a disaster recovery site;
convert historical paper records to electronic format along with other necessary
steps and present it to the President and Board of Commissioners prior to the 2011
budget process for implementation into the 2011 budget.; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all departments, bureaus and agencies under
the President, and all office of County Elected Officials, are hereby directed to
provide the Chief Information Officer, on or before February 25, 2010, with detailed
information identifying all county staff who are employed in automation or
technology related jobs, by job titles and position codes from the 2010 Executive
Budget and including the sources of funding for their salary (general funds, grant
funds or special purpose funds) and a description of their duties and responsibilities
as they pertain to information technology; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief Information Officer will prepare a
report containing an analysis of the information collected under this directive, said
report to be submitted to the President and Board of Commissioners on March 16,
2010.
*Referred to the Committee on Information Technology and Automation as
Amended on January 26, 2010.

____________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Beavers
Gorman
Butler, Daley, Goslin, Moreno, Peraica, Schneider, Steele

 