MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
DECEMBER 16, 1999
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on December 16, 1999 in
the auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois,
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: Robert F. Vickrey, Chairman; and
Members Gregory C. Jones, Stuart P. Levine and Staci M. Yandle.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Special Counsel to the Board
Robert F. Casey, Deputy Administrators Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, Roger
Shiels, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Legal Counsel Mareile’ Cusack, other members of the
staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Vickrey called the meeting to order at 9:15 a.m. Member Jones moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4),
(11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Pending Litigation and Matters Involving Probable Litigation
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 11:30 a.m.
Chairman’s Report
The Chairman reported that licensees who had requested approval for 24-hour gaming
have formally withdrawn those requests. Therefore, the Board will not take any action
on this issue.
Chairman Vickrey thanked Roger Shiels who after 30 years of public service is retiring
effective January 30, 1999. The Chairman stated that Roger pioneered the rules of
minimum specifications for electronic gaming devices and built the investigations unit
into a source of unbiased and factual information.

 The Chairman also thanked Jill Majcher who after 14 years of public service is leaving
the Gaming Board effective December 28, 1999. Jill, a member of the audit division,
had the task of reviewing internal control submissions and was chiefly responsible for
establishing the minimum internal control requirements for all owner licensees.
The Chairman stated that Roger and Jill’s professional knowledge and guidance over
the years will be sorely missed. (Secretary’s Note: Jill Majcher has been allowed to
continue as a permanent part-time employee and will not be leaving the agency.)
Chairman Vickrey, on behalf of the Board presented Roger with a paperweight
reflecting his years of services to the Board.
Board Minutes
Member Levine moved that all portions of the closed session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board from April, 1999 through and including October 15, 1999,
for which the need for confidentiality no longer exists, be made available for
public inspection in accordance with the Open Meeting Act. Member Jones
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Levine moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and
closed sessions of the October 26, 1999 regular meeting and the October 22,
1999, November 10, 1999 and November 15, 1999 special meetings. Member
Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Administrator’s Report
Due to time constraints the Administrator presented the Board with a written report. No
comments were made.
Monthly Performance Report
Deputy Administrator Swoik summarized the monthly statistical reports for October and
November AGR, admissions and patron counts. He reported that the October AGR was
$129 million and November was approximately $124 million. Mr. Swoik stated that for
the first time, Elgin’s Grand Victoria exceeded an average of over $1 million a day every
day during the months of October and November. Harrah’s Joliet exceeded $1 million
three separate days during November for the first time since 1996.
Owner Licensee Items
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA (“HCA”) – Ed Pratt, representing HCA, requested
renewal of its owner’s license.
The Administrator recommended renewal of HCA and thanked HCA again for the
termination of its management agreement.

2

 Chairman Vickrey asked Mr. Pratt to share his thoughts on the plans to replace its
current facility with a new one. Mr. Pratt stated that HCA is moving forward developing
and finalizing its plans to develop a large docksite style facility that would wrap the
existing current land-based facility and replace its two boats. He noted that additional
food and beverage amenities have been added and there will be 100,000 square feet
of construction on two levels.
Member Jones moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Hollywood
Casino-Aurora (“HCC”) for a period of 1 year expiring December, 2000. Member
Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
ALTON BELLE CASINO (“Alton”) – Don Malloy, representing Alton, requested approval
of Brian Watts as Casino Manager.
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve Brian P. Watts as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Alton Gaming Company. Member Jones seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND (“CRI”) – Donna B. More, representing CRI, requested
approval of Deanna Warpehoski as Controller.
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve Deanna K. Warpehoski as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Casino Rock Island. Member Levine seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
HARRAH’S CASINO JOLIET (“Harrah’s”) – Tom O’Donnell, representing Harrah’s,
requested approval of Ronald Holloman as Director of Internal Audit.
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve Ronald C. Holloman as a Level 1
Occupational Licensee of Harrah’s Casino Joliet. Member Jones seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensee Items
PDS FINANCIAL – Donna B. More and Johann Finley, representing PDS, requested
approval of its supplier’s license.
The Administrator stated that if PDS is approved by the Board that certain conditions
be placed on the license.
Chairman Vickrey asked Mr. Finley to describe the general nature of the business. Mr.
Finley stated that the predominate product provided to the industry is financing and
leasing. He stated that there is a trend toward leasing gaming devices rather than
purchasing them outright for lower payment and the ease of moving the assets. PDS’
by-product is as a slot distributorship called Slot Source. Slot Source buys games from

3

 a variety of operators across the nation and then remanufactures and resells the games
back into the U.S. domestic market place.
Chairman Vickrey asked if Slot Source was the most profitable division of PDS. Mr.
Finley responded no.
Chairman Vickrey asked what percentage of the total volume of the company in terms
of gross revenues are derived from Slot Source. Mr. Finley stated that the company
provides about $100 million in loans and leases a year. Slot Source generates around
$13 - $14 million in revenue. He stated that approximately 15 percent of its aggregate
business is done through Slot Source. PDS is eleven years old. Slot Source was
developed as a division of the company in 1997 to support its leasing portfolio.
Chairman Vickrey asked if PDS plans on purchasing used EGDs from Illinois licensees.
Mr. Finley responded yes. The Chairman asked what the market would be for the
machines. Mr. Finley stated that jurisdictions that lease used machines are mainstream
jurisdictions like Colorado and downtown Las Vegas. He stated that his understanding
is that, by statute, Illinois is not a market place for used gaming devices. Mr. Finley
further stated that he views Illinois as a source of inventory for PDS.
Member Levine moved that pursuant to Board Rule 3000.240, the Board approve
the application for a supplier’s license submitted by PDS Financial. This initial
license is for a period of one year, expiring in December of 2000.
In issuing this license the Board orders the following:
1. PDS must submit to staff the company’s due diligence plan to assure
that all domestic and international transactions entered into comply
with the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in which the transactions
occur; and
2. PDS is to have each and every electronic gaming device offered to
Illinois casinos individually tested by an independent gaming
laboratory.
Further, I move that the Board approve Johann Finley, as a Key Person of PDS.
Member Jones seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Jones moved that the Board approve 33 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 18 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and
deny 2 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2 and 3 applications for

4

 an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Member Yandle moved that the Board adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of
law contained in the ALJ’s recommended order and revoke Laura Vaughn’s
occupational license. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Jones moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Judith
Roe and Tina Ores and revoke their occupational licenses. Member Levine
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
EXECUTIVE ORDER – The Administrator stated that on November 16, 1999 the
Governor issued Executive Order Number 16 which set forth a model policy on sexual
harassment. The Executive Order directed that each agency, board and commission of
the State adopt and implement the policy. He stated that staff recommends that the
Board adopt the sexual harassment policy as the Gaming Board’s policy.
Member Jones moved that
WHEREAS, on November 16, 1999, the Governor adopted Executive Order
Number 16, setting forth a Model Policy on sexual harassment; and
WHEREAS, Executive Order Number 16 directs each Agency, Board or
Commission of the State to adopt and implement the Model Policy set forth
therein.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Illinois Gaming Board adopts the
Model Policy attached to Executive Order Number 16, as its policy on sexual
harassment; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Administrator is directed to disseminate this
Policy to all members of Staff.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
CODE OF CONDUCT – The Administrator stated that staff recommends to the Board
that it amend its Code of Conduct to reflect language stating that Board Members and
employees of Board have a continuing obligation to comply with all Executive Orders.
Member Jones moved that the Board amend the Code of Conduct to reflect that the
Members and employees of the Board shall have a continuing obligation to
5

 comply with any and all applicable Executive Orders, as adopted from time to
time by the Governor of the State of Illinois. Member Yandle seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
RULEMAKING/FINAL ADOPTION – Chief Counsel Cusack stated that staff appeared
before JCAR to consider the rulemaking published as a result of the adoption of
SB1017. JCAR issued a no objection certificate. Staff recommended that the Board
approve the final publishing and adoption of the rules.
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve the final publishing in the Illinois
Register and the final adoption of proposed new Rules 3000.232 concerning
undue economic concentration and Rule 3000.237 concerning renewal of Owner’s
licenses as presented by staff at this meeting.
I further move that the Board approve the final publishing in the Illinois Register
and the final adoption of the amendments to Rules 3000.230, 3000.235, 3000.236,
3000.500, 3000.510, 3000.1071 and 3000.1072 as presented by staff at this
meeting. Member Jones seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
RULEMAKING/FIRST NOTICE FILING – The Administrator stated that current Board
Rule 3000.930 deals with the issue of the hours during which alcohol may be served on
riverboats. The staff recommends that the rule be amended due to the advent of
dockside gaming. The current rule states that alcoholic beverages may be sold at any
time during a scheduled excursion. The proposed amendment would read as follows,
“Unless otherwise agreed to by the local municipality or the home rule until where the
Riverboat is located, a holder of an owner’s license may not sell alcoholic beverages or
furnish or permit the same to be consumed on the Riverboat at any time beyond the
hours permitted by local law or ordinance applicable to the dock or location where the
Riverboat is situated. (Underlined language is new.)
The Chairman asked how long before the rule could become effective. Ms. Cusack
stated that if there are no issues or problems the rule could become effective in
approximately three months.
Member Yandle moved that the Board approve the first notice filing of proposed
amended rule 3000.930. Member Jones seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.
2000 BOARD MEETING DATES
Member Levine moved that the Board approve the following Board meeting dates
for the 2000 calendar year: January 18, February 22, March 21, April 25, May 16,
June 20, July 18, August 15, September 5, October 17, and December 5. Member
Jones seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
6

 Public Commentary
Jim Curley, a citizen of Park Ridge, expressed his concern about the approval of
Horseshoe’s acquisition of Empress Casino Joliet. He further stated that construction
is still going on in Rosemont at the proposed casino site. Mr. Curley questioned if this
is a violation of the Riverboat Gambling Act since the construction appears to be of a
building with water around it instead of a riverboat or barge.
Christopher Anderson, representing the Gambling Recovery Center, discussed a
couple of issues of concern regarding compulsive gambling. He asked the Board if
patrons are being granted credit by the casinos. Chairman Vickrey responded that the
Board did not want to get into a question and answer session. Mr. Anderson stated
that he is against the extension of credit. He feels that you cannot form an alliance with
the Illinois casino industry to effectively address the issue of problem and compulsive
gambling. He does not believe the Illinois casino industry should be the sole source of
contributions to problem and compulsive gambling. He asked the Board to convene a
special session strictly designed to address issues of problem and compulsive
gambling in the State of Illinois per the mandate of the Illinois General Assembly so
that policies can be established by the Gaming Board.
Patricia Arroyo, representing Justice for Janitors, asked that the Board to deny
Rosemont a casino license until assurances are made by the licensee that the casino
workers will be treated fairly.
Teresa Bajerczak, an employee of Bomark Cleaning Services, Inc., cited examples of
alleged unfair treatment of Bomark’s female employees. She stated that employees of
Bomark are seeking unionization.
Tom Grey, representing the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, asked that
the staff state their recommendation concerning the sale of Empress to Horseshoe.
Chairman Vickrey stated that, that portion of the investigation is still on going so the
Board did not ask for a recommendation. The Chairman stated that staff requested
more time to investigate Mr. Binion, which the Board agreed to. Mr. Grey asked the
Board to explain how an investigation of Jack Binion can continue after the sale has
been approved. Chairman Vickrey sited examples of past Board action where this had
occurred. Mr. Grey expressed his displeasure with the Board’s recent public comments
and Board actions. He asked Chairman Vickrey to offer his resignation citing that he
has no confidence in the Board’s proceedings.
Peter Bensinger, representing Bensinger, DuPont & Associates, asked to comment on
remarks made by Christopher Anderson. The Chairman apologized and stated that
time had run out and that persons on the agenda not able to make a presentation
would be placed on the January, 2000 agenda.

7

 There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Levine moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 12:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary to the Board

8

 