REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH & HOSPITALS
June 9, 2009
(Recessed and Reconvened on June 16, 2009)
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioner(s) Beavers, Claypool,
Collins, Daley, Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (17)

Absent:

Commissioners Moreno and Peraica (2)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Health & Hospitals of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Tuesday, June 16, 2009 at the hour of 10:00 AM in the Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item(s) and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

298604

IN OPPOSITION TO THE RELOCATION OF THE COOK COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH TO THE OAK FOREST HOSPITAL
OF COOK COUNTY CAMPUS (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Peter N. Silvestri and
Earlean Collins, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
IN OPPOSITION TO THE RELOCATION OF THE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
TO THE OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY CAMPUS
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Public Health has been
located at its current location at 1010 Lake Street in Oak Park, Illinois
since 1992, having relocated from its Maybrook County Courthouse
facility for the purpose of providing additional courtrooms; and
WHEREAS, the facility is centrally located in Cook County in downtown
Oak Park, accessible to the CTA Green Line and the Blue Line, the
METRA railroad line and the Eisenhower Expressway and numerous
PACE and CTA bus lines; and

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, the facility includes the Department’s administration offices,
various educational programs, and public information resources, which
are utilized by municipalities, public and private schools, community
groups, the press and the public; and
WHEREAS, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County is located in the far
southwest section of the County and is not nearly as accessible as the
Oak Park location; and
WHEREAS, the Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County site requires the
expenditure of public funds, which far outweigh a long term rental of
space in a central location; and
WHEREAS, the people of Cook County and their municipalities and
schools are better served in an accessible, central location, which has
been utilized as such for the past seventeen years.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of
Commissioners direct that all efforts and expenditures planned for the
relocation of the Cook County Department of Public Health be
terminated.
Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy,
Communication No. 298604. The motion carried.
299986

moved to Defer

AMENDMENT TO THE BOARD OF HEALTH ORDINANCE
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Transmitting a
Communication, dated March 30, 2009 from Stephen A. Martin, Jr. Ph.D.,
M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health:
the Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) respectfully
requests the Board of Commissioners approve the proposed amendment
to the Cook County Board of Health Ordinance.
This proposed amendment serves two purposes. First, it clarifies the
authority of the Cook County Department of Public Health to require
certain types of state-licensed providers within the department's
jurisdiction to participate in the electronic submission of syndromic
surveillance data. This data is extremely useful to the efforts of the
Department in communicable disease control and has the potential to
alert us to an outbreak in its very early stages, when intervention may be
most effective. Many health providers currently participate in this
program on a voluntary basis and we would like to pursue participation
arrangements with more providers to improve our efforts in this very

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 3

exciting program.
The second purpose of the proposed amendment is to memorialize
authorizations, many of which have been extended to the Department by
the Board through Board Resolutions in the past regarding various types
of routine memoranda of agreement the Department periodically needs to
enter into. These agreements are typically programmatic in nature and
do not involve the establishment of fees, except to the extent that fees
have been separately approved by the Board and set forth in the
schedule found at Chapter 32 Fees of the Cook County Code.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, JERRY BUTLER and ELIZABETH “LIZ”
DOODY GORMAN,
County Commissioners
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO THE BOARD OF HEALTH ORDINANCE
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 38 Health and Human Services, Article II,
Sections 38-32, 38-33 and 38-40 of the Cook County Code are hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 38-32. Department powers and duties.
Sec. 38-33. Measures ordered by department.
Sec. 38-40. Agreements Child day care centers visits.

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 4

COMMUNICATION NO. 299986

SUBSTITUTE AMENDMENT OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH ORDINANCE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, COMMISSIONER
THE HONORABLE ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, COMMISSIONER
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County serves as the Board of Health
and as such oversees the regulatory and programmatic activities of the Cook County
Department of Public Health; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Public Health engages in syndromic
surveillance activities, whereby it receives electronic transmissions of information
regarding chief complaints reported to emergency departments of area hospitals,
particularly those located within suburban Cook County; and
WHEREAS, syndromic surveillance program is an important public health tool with the
potential to assist in identifying measures that may reduce the severity of an outbreak of
communicable disease; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Public Health wishes to assure provider
participation in this program through clarification of its authority to require emergency
departments and other providers, such as urgent care centers, to participate in the
syndromic surveillance program; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Public Health participates in a large
number of community initiatives, emergency planning, and routine inspection programs
which are often memorialized in memoranda of agreement and the Board has
previously, through its proceedings including various resolutions, extended authorization
to the Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health to enter
into such agreements; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Public Health seeks to consolidate and
clarify its authorization to enter into various programmatic agreements consistent with
Board authorization or direction, in the Board of Health Ordinance;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 38, Article II, Sections 38-32 through Section 38-40 of the Cook County
Code are hereby amended as follows:

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 5

Sec. 38-32. Department powers and duties.
The Chief Executive Officer, subject to the control of the Board and to the direction of
the Chief of Health Services, have charge of the Department's staff and activities and
shall delegate responsibilities to qualified personnel of the Department as necessary to
efficiently carry out the activities of the Department pursuant to this article. The
Department shall have the following powers and duties:
(1) Enforce and observe all applicable statutes, applicable regulations of the Illinois
Department of Public Health, and this article, including Rules and Regulations adopted
by the Department pertaining to the preservation of the public's health;
(2) Initiate and carry out, at the direction of the Board, programs and activities of all
kinds not inconsistent with law that may be deemed necessary or desirable in the
promotion and protection of health and the control of disease or conditions which
threaten the public's health;
(3) Adopt and enforce rules and regulations concerning the promotion and protection
of the public's health including, but not limited to, rules and regulations requiring the
reporting to the Department of circumstances defined by the Department which may
result in action by the Department to protect the public's health; or enforce applicable
rules and regulations promulgated by other authorities having power to make such rules
and regulations;
(4) Cooperate with Federal and State health authorities to combat new or evolving
public health threats and, where appropriate, make or adopt public health
proclamations, guidelines, bulletins or health advice published or promoted, in any form,
by Federal or State health officials pertaining to the preservation of the public's health;
(5) Coordinate the activities of the Department with other County, local, municipal and
State offices to provide a coordinated response for the control of diseases or conditions
which threaten the public's health;
(6) Identify and study the occurrence of contagious or infectious diseases including, but
not limited to, requiring information to be submitted by health providers who operate a
state-licensed emergency room, trauma center or urgent care center, transmission of
information to state and federal health authorities, and implementation of electronic and
other syndromic or diagnostic surveillance systems and activities in conjunction with
health providers within the jurisdiction of the Department;

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 6

(67) Investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious diseases and take
measures necessary to investigate the existence and prevent the spread of dangerously
contagious diseases including, but not limited to, directing the performance of physical
examinations and tests, the collection of laboratory specimens, the administration of
vaccines, medications, or other treatments and the observation and monitoring of
persons who may have been exposed to a dangerously contagious disease;
(78) Enforce the regulations of the Department and applicable regulations of the
authorities having the power to make such regulations;
(89) Determine when diseases are contagious or epidemic or when a danger to the
public's health exists and order those measures deemed necessary to protect the
public's health including, but not limited to, the quarantine or isolation of persons or
closure of places when such action is required to protect the public's health, until such
time as the condition can be corrected or the danger to the public health eliminated or
reduced in such a manner that no immediate threat to the public health any longer
exists;
(910) Make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and inspections;
(1011) Investigate and cause to be abated nuisances affecting the public health with
all reasonable promptness in accordance with applicable law, including this article;
(1112) Upon request, give professional advice and information to all city, village,
incorporated town, and school authorities on matters pertaining to sanitation and public
health;
(1213) For any suspected violation of this article or state law, enter any building,
structure or premises, according to law, for the purpose of determining whether there is
a violation of any of the health provisions of this article or the health provisions of State
law;
(1314) Cause to be confined, and specify the conditions of such confinement, any
person who fails to comply with an order of the Department or the Court or who, in the
judgment of the Department, may not be relied upon to comply with an order of the
Department, where such confinement is necessary to protect the public health;
(1415) Cause to be arrested any person who violates an order of the Department or
the Illinois Department of Public Health;

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 7

(1516) In a manner consistent with Federal and State requirements, as applicable,
during an occurrence of biological or chemical terrorism or during a declared disaster
which threatens the public's health, request, and at sites designated by the CCDPH,
receive and cause to be distributed pharmaceutical and medical supplies from the
Illinois Pharmaceutical Stockpile, the Strategic National Stockpile and or any additional
sources in order to aid the state and local emergency response authorities when local
resources have been depleted or when the need for additional resources is reasonably
anticipated;
(1617) During a declared disaster which threatens the public's health, take such
actions as may be requested by the President of the Board or designee in order to
protect the health of the residents of the County.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-206), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-33. Measures ordered by department.
(a) Issuance of orders; court petitions. The Department may order measures it deems
necessary to protect the public's health including, but not limited to, an order requiring
that a person or a group of persons be quarantined or isolated or that a place be closed
and made off limits to the public. Such orders shall be issued with the consent of the
person(s) or owner of the place affected or upon the prior order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. If, in the judgment of the Department, immediate action is required to
protect the public health, the Department may order, on an immediate basis without
prior consent or court order, measures it deems necessary to protect the public's health
including, but not limited to, an order requiring that a person or a group of persons be
quarantined or isolated or that a place be closed and made off limits to the public, until
such time as the condition can be corrected or the danger to the public health
eliminated or reduced in such a manner that no immediate threat to the public health
any longer exists. In addition to other circumstances in which such orders are
appropriate, the Department may order that an individual be quarantined or isolated in
order to prevent the spread of a dangerously communicable disease when an individual
refuses or fails to submit to measures required by the Department in order to investigate
whether a person is or may be infected with or capable of communicating a dangerously
communicable disease. In the event of an immediate order issued without prior consent
or court order, the Department shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, obtain the
consent of the person or owner or file a petition requesting a court order authorizing the
continuation of the order of the Department. Pending a court order on the matter, all
Department orders shall remain in full force and effect until lifted by the Department.
The County shall make payment of reasonable attorneys' fees, if ordered by the Court,
with respect to the representation of indigent persons who object to a Department
order.

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 8

(b) Enforcement of orders. A health care provider licensed in Illinois and a law
enforcement officer with proper jurisdiction shall be authorized to enforce orders issued
by the Department and orders of the Court with respect to public health measures and
shall assist the Department in enforcing such orders.
(c) Syndromic or Diagnostic Surveillance. In order to identify, study or reduce the
occurrence or transmission of contagious or infectious diseases, the Department may
require health providers who operate a state-licensed emergency room, trauma center
or urgent care center to submit information electronically pertaining to the symptoms
reported to said health providers by their patients and may require other categories of
state-licensed health providers including but not limited to laboratories to supply
diagnostic information. The Department shall provide appropriate instruction and access
to the provider on systems licensed and utilized by the Department for the receipt and
transmission of said information and shall enter into an appropriate data sharing
agreement with the health providers submitting such information.
(cd Regulations. The Department may promulgate rules and regulations as are
reasonable and necessary to implement and effectuate the provisions of this section,
including rules and regulations providing for due process protections.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-207), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-34. Petty cash account.
(a) Authorization to set up. The Department of Public Health is hereby authorized to
set up a special account in a bank or depository to be known as "Cook County
Department of Public Health-Petty Cash Account."
(b) Persons authorized to draw on account. The Chief Executive Officer, the
Department's Director of Financial Control and a Department employee acting in a
fiduciary capacity shall be authorized to sign checks drawn on the aforementioned
"Cook County Department of Public Health-Petty Cash Account" for payment of petty
cash expenses; provided, however, that all checks so drawn shall be signed by at least
two of the three persons so authorized to sign.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-2-9, 5-210), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-35. Auditing account.
The "Cook County Department of Public Health-Petty Cash Account" shall be audited at
the close of each fiscal year by the County Auditor and a report shall be filed with the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-211), 3-9-2004.)

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 9

Sec. 38-36. Home nursing visits.
The Department of Public Health is hereby authorized to coordinate the providing of
home nursing visits to suburban Cook County.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-212), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-37. Regulations.
The Department is authorized to issue rules and regulations in carrying out its duties
under this article. With the exception of emergency regulations, all regulations of the
Department shall be submitted to the Board for approval prior to becoming effective.
Upon a determination that the public's health will be endangered unless immediate
regulatory action is taken, the Chief Executive Officer may adopt and enforce
emergency regulations of the Department which shall remain in effect until the Board
has adopted or rejected the emergency regulations or for a period of 90 days,
whichever is shorter. All regulations adopted by the Department shall be filed with the
County Clerk and shall be available at the main offices of the Department.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-215), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-38. Violations; penalty.
(a) Any person who violates the provisions of this article, or any regulations
promulgated hereunder, or any Department orders authorized under this article or under
applicable law shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to arrest
and a fine of $1,000.00 for each violation.
(b) In addition to any other remedies permitted under this article, the Department or the
State's Attorney may file a complaint in the Circuit Court of the County to enjoin any
person from violating the provisions of this article, or any regulations promulgated
hereunder or any Department orders provided for under this article.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-216), 3-9-2004.)
Sec. 38-39. Article as exercise of Home Rule Authority.
This article, as amended from time to time, is promulgated pursuant to the powers of the
County of Cook as a home rule unit of local government under the 1970 Illinois
Constitution, Article VII, Section 6, and shall supersede all state statutes to the extent
that it may be in conflict with them, including without limitation, any of the provisions set
forth in 55 ILCS 5/5-25001 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. No. 04-O-13, § 1(5-217), 3-9-2004.)

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 10

Sec. 38-40. Agreements Child day care centers visits.
The Cook County Department of Public Health, through its Chief Operating Officer, is
hereby authorized to enter into and execute agreements on behalf of the County as
follows:
(a) to provide public health nursing consultation services to licensed child day care
centers as defined in the administrative regulations of the Illinois Department of Children
and Family Services (IDCFS) at 89 Ill. Adm. Code 377.2 (2005). The Department will
provide technical assistance to licensed child day care centers at a rate of $90.00 per
service hour unless a change in this rate is approved by the Board to assist these
facilities in complying with regulatory requirements established by the IDCFS as set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 407.210 of the IDCFS Licensing Standards for Day
Care Centers as well as to assist these facilities in complying with Illinois Department of
Public Health and IDCFS standards regarding medical reports and childhood
immunizations and to provide information regarding the prevention of communicable
disease. The Chief Operating Officer of the Department shall be authorized to sign such
agreements on behalf of the County.
(b) to perform inspections of retail food establishments within municipalities at such
rates as have been approved by the Board;
(c) to extend or renew, without substantive change, existing software license
agreements for syndromic or diagnostic surveillance systems utilized by the Department
and previously approved by the Board, provided such extension or renewal does not
obligate the County to pay additional license fees;
(d) to receive, transmit, maintain as confidential, study or utilize syndromic or diagnostic
information including, but not limited to, agreements with other municipal, county, state
and federal public health authorities and with health providers, their respective
contractors and their contractor’s licensees, to participate in syndromic or diagnostic
surveillance activities including agreements to share confidential data, to transmit and
receive information using secured web and software systems licensed by the
Department, and to perform such other activities as may be necessary to participate in
the Department’s electronic syndromic or diagnostic surveillance program.

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 11

(e) to participate in or coordinate a Medical Reserve Corps or similar volunteer program
and to render or to receive emergency mutual aid including provisions for the
redistribution, sharing or allocation of supplies, personnel and responsibilities within
Cook County and the surrounding counties for purposes of the promotion of public
health and emergency preparedness and response;
(f) setting forth the terms pursuant to which an action authorized under this Ordinance
to be performed by the Department shall be carried out including, but not limited to, the
terms pursuant to which a distribution of medicines, vaccines or supplies is made or
received to or from the Illinois Department of Public Health, local health departments or
emergency management agencies, municipalities and townships and licensed health
providers;
(g) to participate in the Illinois Public Health Mutual Aid System;
(h) to utilize premises within Cook County, without obligation to pay rent, for purposes
of public health emergency preparedness and response;
(i) to memorialize responsibilities of program participants in connection with the
implementation of public health programs, provided that there is no fiscal obligation
imposed upon the County as a result.
(Ord. No. 06-O-06, § 1, 2-1-2006.)
Secs. 38-41--38-50. Reserved
Approved and adopted this ___ day of June 2009.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin, moved to accept the
Substitute Amendment of the Board of Health Ordinance Communication No. 299986.
Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to Approve the
Substitute Amendment of the Board of Health Ordinance Communication No.299986. The
motion carried.
299999

REQUESTING A MEETING OF THE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS TO REVIEW THE COST TO COOK COUNTY OF THE
PRACTICE OF OTHER HOSPITALS AND COUNTY HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS SENDING PATIENTS TO STROGER HOSPITAL OF
COOK COUNTY FOR COSTLY FOLLOW-UP CARE (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Larry
Suffredin, County Commissioner; Co-Sponsored by William M. Beavers,
Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley, Bridget
Gainer, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Roberto
Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy, Anthony J. Peraica, Timothy O.
Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims and Robert B. Steele, County

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 12

Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the mission of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
is to provide quality health care to Cook County patients without regard of
ability to pay; and
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in recognition of the need to partner with other non-profit
hospitals to reduce the growing number of indigent patients seeking care
in Cook County, provide tax exemptions worth millions of dollars with the
understanding that the recipient hospitals would provide medical care to
indigent or under-insured patients; and

WHEREAS, the Chicago Tribune recently conducted an investigation of
non-profit hospitals referring indigent and under-insured patients to
Stroger Hospital of Cook County to complete costly treatment; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Tribune’s investigation found that patients from
non-profit facilities in Cook County and as far as Lake and DuPage
Counties are being sent to Stroger Hospital of Cook County for costly
treatment; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Tribune’s investigation found that governmental
health departments in the collar counties continue to refer patients
needing costly care to Stroger Hospital of Cook County rather than to
non-profit hospitals in their own counties; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Tribune’s investigation found that uninsured
cancer patients, Medicaid patients with heart disease and immigrants
with broken bones have been among those that come to Stroger Hospital
of Cook County for urgent follow-up care after being stabilized or
evaluated elsewhere; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Tribune’s investigation found that some patients
arrive in the emergency room of Stroger Hospital of Cook County with
diagnosis, treatment recommendations, discharge slips and prescriptions
from other hospitals and governmental health departments, along with
maps to Stroger Hospital.

 HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
RECESSED ON JUNE 9, 2009
AND RECONVENED ON JUNE 16, 2009
PAGE 13

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of
Commissioners does hereby request that a meeting of the Committee on
Health & Hospitals be convened to review the cost to Cook County of the
practice of other hospitals and county health departments sending
patients to Stroger Hospital of Cook County for costly follow-up care.
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to Defer
Communication No. 299999. The motion carried.
Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Daley. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 298604
Communication Number 299986
Communication Number 299999

Deferred
Approved
Deferred

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Health & Hospitals

____________________________
Jerry Butler, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 