Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee

Wednesday, June 28, 2017

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, lllinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Gainer, Boykin, Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Tobolski ( l)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.

I. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen

17-4029
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/ 16/20 17
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, to approve
17-4029. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Tobolski ( 1)

 17-3210
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Economic Development
Other Part(ies): Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Board Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Services to implement Cook County Workforce Ordinance
Agreement period: This Agreement shall commence upon execution by both parties and continue until
51112018.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: NI A
Agreement Number(s): NIA
Summary/Notes: The Cook County Workforce Resource Ordinance (the "Ordinance") was approved by
the Board on 218/2017. The Ordinance is intended to facilitate the recruitment, training and placement of
Cook County residents to fill position vacancies that are created as a result of industrial and commercial
development, rehabilitation or expansion. The Ordinance requires recipients of tax incentives to enter into
Workforce Resource Agreements with the Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership ("Partnership") to
accomplish such intended goals.
Under the proposed Agreement, the Bureau of Economic Development will notify the Partnership of the
receipt and approval of applications from employers for tax incentives and provide information to the
Partnership regarding such employers. The Partnership will facilitate the recruitment and placement of
Cook County residents in various businesses that are recipients of applicable County Tax Incentives under
the Ordinance.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, to
recommend for deferral 17-3210. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin and Suffredin (3)

Nays:

Sims (1)

Absent:

Tobolski ( 1)

 ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Sim s and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Tobolski ( 1)

Respectfully submitted,

~1$.~~Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county. legistar.com

 