Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Martin J.
Durkan, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner
Josina Morita, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari
K. Steele, Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Thursday, December 7, 2017

2:00 PM

Board Room

CONSIDER THE PROPOSED BUDGET

Call Meeting to Order
Commissioner Kari K. Steele, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and
Employment, presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Frank Avila; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore;
Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Public Comment
Andrew Donakowski Policy and Planning Specialist, Friends of the Chicago River,
addressed the Board regarding green infrastructure
Dawn Thompson-Ellis, Director, Center of Neighborhood Technology, addressed the
Board regarding stormwater management
Rachel Leven, Policy Manager, Better Government Association, addressed the Board
regarding the recommended inspector general

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

17-1243

December 7, 2017

Pursuant to 70 ILCS 2605/5.6 of the “Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District Act”, public notice is hereby given that a Public Hearing will be held
at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday, December 7, 2017 in the Board Room, 100 East
Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the proposed Budget and
proposed tax levy of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018.
The Tentative Budget is available for review on the District’s website,
www.mwrd.org and also on file and available for inspection in the Office of
the Clerk of the District, Room 243, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Martin J. Durkan,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays

Open Discussion
Sarah Wetmore, Vice President and Research Director, Civic Federation, addressed the
Board with positive comments and recommendations on the proposed 2018 budget

A17-001
Attachments:

Civic Federation Analysis and Recommendations

Adjournment
A motion was made by David J. Walsh, seconded by Barbara J. McGowan, that
this Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore;
Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 7, 2017, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 7, 2017

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 