BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, April 29, 2015, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3)
minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and
Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
PRESIDENT

15-2890
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the President
Vendor: Susan J. White and Associates, Alexandria, Virginia
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Federal Lobbyist Services
Original Contract Period: 2/1/2014 - 12/31/2014 with one (1) one-year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/1/2015 - 11/30/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$135,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/19/2014, $135,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $135,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $135,000.00
Accounts: 490-260
Contract Number(s): 1453-13662

Page 2 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Susan J. White and Associates will assist the Office of the President in developing and
executing proactive and reactive strategies on legislative, regulatory and administrative proposals and
regulations under consideration by the U.S. Congress, federal agencies and departments, monitor
congressional hearings for relevant discussions and potential affect upon Cook County and the Cook
County Health and Hospitals Systems, monitor federal budget developments and work with relevant
members of Congress and their staff to convey impact on pending proposals and develop alternatives to
minimize budgetary impact, and work with the Director of Governmental and Legislative Affairs to
accomplish the goals set by the Office of the President. This contract was originally awarded as a Sole
Source procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
COMMISSIONERS

15-2992
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 2. ADMINISTRATION.
ARTICLE X. -- PERFORMANCE BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING PERFORMANCE
BASED MANAGEMENT AND BUDGETING UTILIZING TRANSPARENCY, EQUITY, AND
EFFICIENCY (“TEE”) BASED CRITERIA.
Sec. 2-930. - Legislative findings and purpose.
(a) Cook County has an interest in ensuring that every department and agency, including agencies
operated by the 11 separately elected officials, and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System operate
in a transparent, equitable,n efficient and fiscally responsible manner.
(b) Cook County has an interest in improving the delivery of public services through the use of strategic
planning, business planning, a sound resource allocation process encompassing the traditional budget
process and a framework for managerial accountability to ensure that the County's goals, mission and
objectives focus on countywide results and that the results produced reflect the goals of statutory
programs and responsibilities.
(b) Cook County has an interest in ensuring the transparency of its budget process by making both the
process and the policy rationale of its resource allocation open and accessible to Cook County residents.
(c) Cook County has an interest in ensuring the equitable distribution of County services and resources by
evaluating resource allocation decisions relative to the level of need in each area of the County.
(d) Cook County has an interest in improving the delivery of public services through the use of strategic

Page 3 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

planning, business planning, a sound resource allocation process encompassing the traditional budget
process and a framework for managerial accountability to ensure that the County's goals, mission and
objectives focus on countywide results and that the results produced reflect the goals of statutory programs
and responsibilities.
(ce) The use of performance measures and standards in the planning and resource allocation processes, as
well as the public reporting of performance information, will result in a more efficient and effective
transparent, equitable and efficient utilization of County resources and improved results for the public and
will ensure that the County as a whole is addressing its core functions and mission.
(fd) The purpose of this article is to:
(1) Improve public service delivery through deliberate planning and an emphasis on transparency,
equity and efficiency with an emphasis on accountability and results accountability and results;
(2) Improve managerial and legislative decision-making by promoting the gathering of meaningful
and objective performance information;
(3) Improve legislative decision-making capacity on the appropriation of public funds by providing
all necessary background information on the socioeconomic need that is to be addressed by each
expenditure of taxpayer dollars;
(34) Ensure that all departments and agencies are fiscally accountable; and are primarily
addressing statutory operations and functions;; and and determining allocation of County resources
in a manner consistent with the role of Cook County Government as the unit of local government
most responsible for providing basic human services to the poor and the indigent.
(45) Improve public trust in County government by holding the County and its departments
accountable for achieving results and effectively ameliorating the effects of poverty, violence, and
lack of access to quality health care in the poorest areas in Cook County.
Sec. 2-931. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board for the purposes of this article, means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Budget Resource Allocation Plan for the purposes of this article, means the budget resource
allocation plans described in Section 2-934(a).
County for the purposes of this article, means Cook County.
County Departments or Agencies or County Department or Agency for the purposes of this article,
means all County departments and agencies, including, but not limited to, offices, departments
and agencies of or led by the following elected officials:
(1)The President of the Board of Commissions of Cook County;
(2)The Cook County Assessor;

Page 4 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

(3)The Commissioners of the Cook County Board of Review;
(4)The Cook County Clerk;
(5)The Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County;
(6)The Cook County Recorder of Deeds;
(7)The Cook County Sheriff;
(8)The Cook County State's Attorney;
(9)The Office of the Chief Judge; and
(10)The Cook County Treasurer.
President for the purposes of this article, means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Quarterly Record for the purposes of this article, means the quarterly records described in Sections
2-932(a) and 2-932(b).
The terms, Poverty, Extreme Poverty, and Low Income Households for the purposes of this article, shall be
defined according to the definitions established by the United States Census Bureau.
Sec. 2-932. - Quarterly submissions to President and Board.
(a)
Each County Department and Agency shall prepare a Quarterly Record wherein it shall define its
mission and establish measurable goals for achieving desirable results for those who received its services,
and and the taxpayers who pay for those services. Said Quarterly Record shall also include a detailed plan
for achieving full access to departmental services by residents of areas of Cook County with high numbers
of individuals or families living either in poverty, extreme poverty, or low income households. Each County
Department and Agency shall also develop clear strategies and timelines to achieve all of the foregoing
objectives. its goals.
(b)
The Quarterly Record submission shall include, but not be limited to, specific and measurable
performance indicators, with corresponding performance objectives and targets, for each departmental or
agency activity that are impartial, quantifiable and that demonstrate progress to date. The President and/or
his or her designee, prior to the submission of the first Quarterly Record by any County Department or
Agency, shall meet with each County Department or Agency to determine the appropriate performance
indicators and corresponding performance objectives and targets for such County Department or Agency.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2-932, the CountyDepartments and Agencies shall
prepare its Quarterly Records in accordance with the performance indicators and performance objectives
determined in these meetings and as otherwise established by the President and/or his or her designee. Such
performance indicators and objectives must include a detailed plan for achieving full access to departmental
services by residents of areas of Cook County with high numbers of individuals or families living either in
poverty, extreme poverty or low income households.
(c)
The Quarterly Record submission shall also include a statement of purpose for the County
Department or Agency, services and programs provided that are required by law, including the mandating
law, statute or ordinance, and services and programs provided that are not required by law but that enhance
County services.

Page 5 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

(d)
The Quarterly Record submission shall also include a statement of intent as to how the County
Department or Agency shall comply with the following three criteria, which shall be henceforth referred to
as the “Transparency, Equity and Efficiency” (“TEE”) criteria:
(1) Transparency: The County Department or Agency shall make available to the public its
departmental / agency budgeting process and its rationale for its departmental proposal to the
Finance Committee Chair and the Office of the President.
(2) Equity: The County Department or Agency shall establish, in writing, a detailed plan for
achieving full access to departmental services by residents of areas of Cook County with high
numbers of individuals or families living either in poverty, extreme poverty or low income
households.
(3) Efficiency: The County Department or Agency shall establish, in writing, a detailed plan for
achieving delivery of services to the populations with the highest level of need, in the most
fiscally prudent, cost-effective manner.
a. The above-referenced statement of intent detailing the foregoing criteria shall
henceforth be referred to as a Department or Agency’s “Quarterly TEE Statement.”
(de)
Each County Department and Agency shall submit its Quarterly Record and Quarterly TEE
Statement to the President and his or her designee no later than March 10, June 10, September 10 and
December 10 each year.
(ef)
The President or his or her designee shall transmit each Quarterly Record and Quarterly TEE
Statement submission received from County Departments and Agencies to the Board for Board review by
April 1, July 1, October 1 and January 1 of each year.
(g)
At the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Cook County Board immediately following each
Departmental and Agency Submission of each Quarterly Record and Quarterly TEE Statement, the Cook
County Board of Commissioners shall have the opportunity to question a designated representative of each
Department and Agency regarding the contents of their TEE Statement.
(h)
For purposes of responding to questions by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on each
Departmental or Agency TEE Statement, each Department shall have an individual “TEE Representative”
tasked with monitoring compliance with and implementation of the TEE criteria. Said individual shall be
accountable for ensuring compliance with and implementation of TEE Standards.
Sec. 2-933. - Quarterly meetings.
The President or his or her designee shall, on a quarterly basis, meet with County Departments and
Agencies to discuss the Quarterly Record and TEE Statement, as well as the County Department or
Agency's progress with respect to the chosen performance indicators and corresponding performance
targets for priority outcomes, including but not limited to the TEE criteria.
Sec. 2-934. - Budget review and allocation.
(a)
Each County Department and Agency shall prepare a proposed Budget Resource Allocation Plan
for review by the President and the Board on or before March 30, June 30, September 30 and December 30

Page 6 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

of each year. The proposed Budget Resource Allocation Plan shall identify the resources required to
execute departmental or agency priority outcomes, as outlined in the Quarterly Record and TEE Statement
submissions.
(b)
County Department and Agency Budget Resource Allocation Plans shall include, but not be
limited to, the following components:
(1) Proposed staffing levels, FTE and personnel costs;
(2) Fringe benefits;
(3) Proposed revenues and appropriations, including litigation and contractual service costs;
(4) Grants that support or enhance services and programs and a listing of business units
associated with such programs or service;
(5) Length of grant funding commitment;
(6) Proposed adjustments to existing service levels;
(7) Proposed new or increased fees;
(8) Transfers;
(9) Depreciation, amortizations and depletion;
(10) Capital Costs;
(11) Grants to outside organizations;
(12) Additional grants anticipated to be included to be received in the upcoming Fiscal Year.
(13) A detailed plan for achieving full access to departmental services by residents of areas of
Cook County with high numbers of individuals or families living either in poverty, extreme
poverty, or low income households
(c)
The proposed Budget Resource Allocation Plan shall clearly show the relationship between
resources, County Departmental or Agency activities and the expected level of performance to ensure
performance based management and budgeting. The Budget Resource Allocation Plan shall clearly indicate
which services are statutorily mandated and to what extent services are required. The Budget Resource
Allocation Plan shall also include a detailed plan for achieving full access to departmental services by
residents of areas of Cook County with high numbers of individuals or families living either in poverty,
extreme poverty, or low income households. If the Budget Resource Allocation Plan requests funding for
services or programs not mandated by law, justification shall be presented to show how such services or
programs enhance County services.
(d)
The President shall present the proposed Budget Resource Allocation Plan of each County
Department and Agency to the Board for review.
(e)
The President or his or her designee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Administrative
Officer shall review the Quarterly Record and TEE Statement submissions and analyze performance data

Page 7 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

with a consideration of proposed Budget Resource Allocation Plans to determine the effectiveness of
strategies, program performance, and justification for continued, increased, or decreased funding.
Sec. 2-935. - Performance based program review.
(a)
County Department and Agency Budget Resource Allocation Plans shall serve as the basis for
performance based program reviews. Such reviews may include the following:
(1) A review as to whether the program is in conformance with the mission of the Department
and Agency, its statutory authority and adopted budgetary priorities;
(2) Zero-based budgeting concepts;
(3) Application of program workload measures, program efficiency measures, program
effectiveness measures, program outcome measures and cost-benefit analysis; and
(4) An analysis of the customer or client base served by the program and delivery of service
alternatives.
(b) Performance based review programs shall always include a detailed discussion and assessment on
the progress of the Department or Agency toward the goal of achieving full access to departmental services
by residents of areas of Cook County with high numbers of individuals or families living either in poverty,
extreme poverty, or low income households
Sec. 2-936. - Accountability and performance.
(a)
Departments and Agencies shall be held accountable for the achievement of performance
objectives, as outlined in the Quarterly Record and TEE Statement, and Department heads and managers
may be further accountable for the achievement of performance objectives through performance evaluation
and other appropriate managerial tools.
(b)
Management and staff shall employ progressive techniques to ensure continuous transparency,
efficiency and equity efficiency and effectiveness in County operations.
(c)
Managers and staff shall not allow the expenditures for any line item for their department or
agency to exceed the total amount appropriated for such line item by the approved budgets without express
approval of the Board.
Sec. 2-937. - Effective date.
This article shall become effective 30 days after passage by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Page 8 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-3027
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE BANNING COOK COUNTY LIQUOR CODE LICENSE HOLDERS FROM
THE SALE, OFFERING, PROVISION, FURNISHING, BARTERING, EXCHANGE OR GIFT
OF POWDERED ALCOHOL
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6(a); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, Cook County may exercise any power and perform any
function relating to its government and affairs including the power to regulate for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and
WHEREAS, in the spring of 2014, Arizona-based Lipsmark, LLC announced that it intended to market
powdered alcohol under the name “Palcohol”; and
WHEREAS, the product was briefly approved for sale by the U.S. Treasury Alcohol and Tobacco Tax
and Trade Bureau, but the approval was temporarily rescinded because label approvals were given in
error; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has concluded that it does not have a legal basis to
block market entry of the product at this time; and
WHEREAS, the Food and Drug Administration commented that its review focused solely on the
non-alcohol ingredients added to the product and that it does not have concerns that the ingredients,
when added to the alcoholic beverage products, render the products adulterated under the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act; and
WHEREAS, in March of 2015, the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade approved labels for Palcohol;
and
WHEREAS, in Palcohol is expected to be offered for sale this summer; and
WHEREAS, Lipsmark plans to manufacture Palcohol in two different formulations: an ingestible
beverage formulation and a non-ingestible industrial formulation; and
WHEREAS, Palcohol’s ingestible beverage formulation is freeze-dried powderized alcohol which turns
water into either vodka or rum, or optional flavors including cosmopolitan, mojito and the Powderita- a
powdered margarita; and
WHEREAS, a package of Palcohol weighs only an ounce, can fit into a pocket and in addition to being
mixed with liquids, can be sprinkled onto food, or snorted, which increases the risk of abuse, binge
consumption and concealment; and
WHEREAS, snorting powdered alcohol elevates the risk of alcohol poisoning and is extremely
dangerous because the alcohol is quickly absorbed by the body and results in immediate intoxication; and

Page 9 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, ingestible powdered alcohol has the potential to be a public health nuisance; and
WHEREAS, the portable nature of ingestible powdered alcohol makes it more enticing and easier for
underage drinkers to use discreetly; and
WHEREAS, underage drinking is a significant problem that threatens the health and safety of our youth,
contributes to crime and negatively impacts the entire community; and
WHEREAS, many states, including New York, Alaska, Delaware, Louisiana, South Carolina and
Vermont have already banned ingestible powdered alcohol, and Colorado and Ohio are considering bans;
and
WHEREAS, the public health risks and potential for abuse created by ingestible powdered alcohol far
outweigh any value it may have in the marketplace; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, the above recitals are expressly incorporated herein and
made part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
BE IT FURTHUR ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 6,
Alcoholic Liquor, Article II, Division 1, Sec. 6-39 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby
enacted as follows:
Sec 6-39- Powdered Alcohol.
(a) As used in this section:
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified or diluted, whatever
may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or
wood alcohol.
Powdered alcohol means any powder or crystalline substance that contains alcohol and is used or
intended for human consumption.
(b) No licensee under this Code or any licensee’s agent or employee shall possess, sell, offer for sale, give
away, barter, exchange or otherwise furnish on the licensed premises any powdered alcohol in
Unincorporated Cook County, or engage in act of concealment of any powdered alcohol on the licensed
premises.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Code, any person who violates any of the requirements of this
section or any regulation promulgated thereunder shall be fined not less than $2,000.00 nor more than
$5,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense to which a separate fine shall apply.
(d) Any violation of this section or any regulation promulgated thereunder may result in license suspension
or revocation in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 6, Article II, Division 2 of the Cook County
Code of Ordinances.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon its adoption.

Page 10 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-3033
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION OF ILLINOIS
FOR ITS REPORT ON “STOP AND FRISK” POLICE PRACTICES AND CALLING UPON
THE CITY OF CHICAGO TO ADOPT THE REFORMS RECOMMENDED IN THE REPORT
WHEREAS, despite the fact that the nation’s attention has turned to police practices because of high
profile killings, concerns about policing extend beyond the use of force and into the everyday
interactions of police with community members; and,
WHEREAS, in black and Latino communities, these everyday interactions are often a “stop and frisk”;
and,
WHEREAS, under the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968), officers are
allowed to stop you if the officer has reasonable suspicion that you have been, are, or are about to be
engaged in criminal activity. Once you are stopped, if an officer has reasonable suspicion that you are
dangerous and have a weapon, the officer can frisk you, including ordering you to put your hands on a
wall or car, and running his or her hands over your body; and,
WHEREAS, a report on “Stop and Frisk” police practices by the American Civil Liberties Union
(ACLU) of Illinois, published just last month, contains troubling signs that the Chicago Police
Department has a current practice of unlawfully using stop and frisk; and,
WHEREAS, “Stop and Frisk” is disproportionately concentrated in the black community. Last month’s
ACLU Report found that black Chicagoans were subjected to 72% of all stops, though they constitute
just 32% of the city’s population; and,
WHEREAS, the ACLU of Illinois, comparing stops to population, found that Chicagoans were stopped
more than four times as often as New Yorkers at the height of New York City’s stop and frisk practice;
and,
WHEREAS, the abuse of stop and frisk is a violation of individual rights, but it also poisons police and
community relations and directly impacts the bottom line for Cook County taxpayers by leading to
arrests that would not have otherwise occurred, thereby burdening Cook County Courts and the Cook
County Jail;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Cook County President and the Board of
Commissioners that the appreciation of this body be expressed to the American Civil Liberties Union of
Illinois for its report on “Stop and Frisk” in the City of Chicago; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Cook County President and the Board of Commissioners that
the recommendations contained in the above-referenced report including additional tracking, data
collection and process around the “Stop and Frisk” practice be enacted at the earliest possible
opportunity.

Page 11 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-3034
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REGARDING “GOOD FRIDAY” SUSPENSIONS OF FUNDS BY GOVERNOR
BRUCE RAUNER
WHEREAS, more than two million people live with an autism spectrum disorder in the United States;
and
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois provided funding to assist people living on the autism spectrum through
the Illinois Autism Project and other programs; and
WHEREAS, Governor Bruce Rauner made the unilateral decision to cut funding for this important
program, announcing it on World Autism Day; and
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has worked diligently to be the most welcoming state in the nation for
New Americans; and
WHEREAS, immigrants from throughout the world come to Illinois and Cook County to build a new
life; and
WHEREAS, the state invested in immigrant integration, to make sure immigrants are able to seamlessly
apply for citizenship and learn English as a second language; and,
WHEREAS, Governor Bruce Rauner made the unilateral decision to cut funding for this important
program; and
WHEREAS, Governor Bruce Rauner also decided to cut funding for indigent burials and funerals,
which disproportionately affects Cook County and the disadvantaged, and is a public health risk; and,
WHEREAS, these cuts, which are being termed the “Good Friday cuts” due to their Good Friday
announcement, totaled approximately $26 million out of a multibillion dollar state budget; and,
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has the duty and constitutional obligation to provide for the “health,
safety, and welfare of the people”; and,
WHEREAS, these programs are NOT unessential;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Cook County Board of Commissioners do ask and
implore the General Assembly to restore the $26 million cut as a part of the “Good Friday cuts” to their
full levels and work to ensure this does not happen again.

Page 12 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-3019
Sponsored by: DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Joseph T. Tamburino, Mayor, Village of Hillside
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location:

Village of Hillside

Volume and Property Index Number:
159, 15-08-417-001-0000; 159, 15-08-417-002-0000; 159, 15-08-417-003-0000
Summary: This Request Package contains three (3) PINs. The Village intends to use the vacant land as
a water retention area as part of its roadway realignment and resurfacing project, which use will greatly
benefit the Village’s commercial district by reducing flooding on the roadway adjacent to the parcels and
in the surrounding areas and will comply with current Illinois Department of Transportation roadway
standards.
The Village will file for tax exempt status upon acquisition of the PINs because it will retain the PINs for
municipal use. The Village has not received a request from a third party by which the Village would
convey the certificate(s) of purchase or the perfected tax deed(s) for the PINs to said third party for
development. The Village will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed(s) and bear all legal and other
costs associated with acquisition of the parcels. The Village agrees to submit to the Cook County
Department of Economic Development, on a form provided by that department, No Cash Bid Reports on
the status of each parcel for five years or until development is complete, whichever occurs last, as
required by the Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.

15-3020
Sponsored by: DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Joseph T. Tamburino, Mayor, Village of Hillside
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location:

Village of Hillside

Volume and Property Index Number:
168, 15-17-404-012-0000
Summary: This Request Package contains one (1) PIN. The intended use for this occupied industrial
parcel is to demolish the structure(s) currently located on the parcel and construct a municipal public
works facility or to transfer the parcel to a developer to redevelop the parcel for retail or light industrial
uses, which uses will greatly benefit the Village by eliminating blight and enhancing the Village’s
economic base. The parcel is located within the Roosevelt Road Redevelopment Project Area. The
Village will file for tax exempt status upon acquisition of the PIN because it will retain the PIN for
municipal use or will maintain such tax exempt status until the tax deed for the PIN is conveyed to a

Page 13 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

developer. The Village has not received a request from a third party by which the Village would convey
the certificate of purchase or the perfected tax deed for the PIN to said third party for development. The
Village will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax deed and bear all legal and other costs associated with
acquisition of the parcel. The Village agrees to submit to the Cook County Department of Economic
Development, on a form provided by that department, No Cash Bid Reports on the status of the parcel for
five years or until development is complete, whichever occurs last, as required by the Cook County No
Cash Bid Ordinance.

15-3021
Sponsored by: DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Aleks Briedis, Executive Director, Community Park District of La Grange Park
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location:

Village of La Grange Park

Volume and Property Index Number:
175, 15-33-411-051-0000
Summary: This Request Package contains one PIN. This property is vacant land that is located between
our existing Beach Oak Park and the Indiana Belt Harbor Railroad. The property contains mature trees
and thick underbrush. The District was recently awarded an Illinois Department of Natural Resource’s
(IDNR) Open Space Lands Acquisition and Development (OSLAD) grant for redevelopment of our
Beach Oak Park. We believe by acquiring this parcel that we could incorporate the land into our park,
expanding the park size in its southwest corner and improve it aesthetically. A site plan of the proposed
improvements is attached.
If acquired, the District will file for tax exempt status and will request to rezone it as park land with the
Village of La Grange Park. The part of the parcel which has railroad tracks is intended to be transferred
to the Indiana Harbor Belt Railroad, a possible Third Party Requestor. We are currently in discussions of
their interest in being a Third Party Requestor. The District will retain legal counsel to obtain the tax
deed and bear all legal and other costs associated with acquisition of the parcel. The District agrees to
submit, to the Cook County Department of Economic Development, No Cash Bid Reports on the status
of the parcel for five years or until development is complete, whichever occurs last, as required by the
Cook County No Cash Bid Ordinance.

15-3022
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO DISCUSS
SUPPORTING THE INTERMEDIATE SERVICE CENTERS OF COOK COUNTY

Page 14 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, the Intermediate Service Centers (“ISCs”) of Cook County play a crucial role in providing
shared services to the public and non-public school districts of suburban Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Regional Safe Schools Program (“RSSP”) is one of the critical educational programs
offered to the youth of suburban Cook County, and has been offered to the suburban Cook County public
schools districts since 1997; and
WHEREAS, the RSSP initiative serves as the key youth drop-out and expulsion prevention program that
keeps young people (Grades 6-12) in school with an opportunity for graduation and enhanced success;
and
WHEREAS, should these students not receive educational services and enter into the juvenile justice
system, the cost to the State of Illinois is egregious; and
WHEREAS, Governor Rauner February budget address eliminated grant support for the RSSP
throughout the State; and
BE IT RESOLVED, since the dissolution of the Suburban Cook County Regional Office of Education
(“ROE”) # 14 in 2010, the ISCs have taken on all duties and responsibilities of the Suburban Cook
County Regional Office of Education; and
BE IT RESOLVED, all other 101 counties in the State of Illinois provide fiscal supports for their ROEs,
and consider their ROEs to be a branch of county government;
BE IT RESOLVED, Counties supply such tangible supports such as providing rent-free space in county
buildings, county-supplied insurance benefits, county personnel to carry out ROE duties, and salary
stipends for ROE administrators; and
BE IT RESOLVED, the continued diminishment of state and federal grants and funding has caused the
ISCs to incur annual fiscal deficits; and
BE IT RESOLVED, the continued existence of the ISCs is now in question due to the existing fiscal
constraints and lack of support of Cook County; and
BE IT RESOLVED, these fiscal constraints call into question whether the ISCs can continue to provide
educator licensure support, bus driver training (for all of Cook County and Chicago Public Schools),
issuance of building and occupancy permits, Health/Life Safety inspections, annual Illinois State Board
of Education compliance visits, non-public school recognition services, truancy services,
McKinney-Vento homeless services, and professional development activities at several levels;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Legislation and Intergovernmental Committee of the Cook
County Commissioners will hold a Hearing to examine the relationship between the County of Cook and
the Intermediate Service Centers; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the intent of the Hearing will be to investigate how supports can
be provided to the Intermediate Service Centers to carry out their critical mission of serving the youth of
Cook County, Illinois.

Page 15 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-3023
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY TECHNOLOGY POLICY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2- Administration,
Article XIII - Cook County Technology Policy, sections 2-968 - 2-971 of the Cook County Code are
hereby enacted as Follows:

Section 2-968. - Short Title
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "the Cook County Technology Policy."
Section 2-969. - Definitions
For purposes of this division, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this section:
Ordinance means the Cook County Technology Policy, as amended.
Procurement Request means a request for proposal, request for qualification, sole source
procurement, comparable government procurement, emergency procurement, joint procurement,
consortium or group procurement and/or innovative procurement issued pursuant to the Cook
County Procurement Code.
Roundtable means the Cook County Chief Information Officer Roundtable.
Technology means electronic information, software, systems, and equipment used in the creation,
manipulation, storage, display or transmission of data, including, but not limited to, internet and
intranet systems, software applications, operation systems, video and multimedia,
telecommunications products, kiosks, information transaction machines, copiers, printers and
desktop and portable computers. For purposes of this Ordinance, the definition of “Technology” is
to be construed broadly to include similar devices and applications both currently existing and not.
Section 2-970. - Cook County Technology Policy
The Cook County Board shall establish policies and procedures concerning Technology on an
annual basis. The Board shall:
(a)
Establish best practices and a strategic plan for Countywide Procurement Requests and the
coordination of shared services of Cook County Technology;
(b)
Develop an enterprise change management process to manage common Technology
functions across Cook County;

Page 16 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

(c)
Oversee, analyze, test, evaluate and review existing Technologies to determine system
lives and capabilities;
(d)

Review and analyze all Technology Procurement Requests before publication;

(e)

Recommend changes to Technology Procurement Requests, including but not limited to:
a. Overseeing, reviewing and improving the implementation of new Technology
systems;
b. Setting realistic timelines in cooperation with vendors in regards to project
implementation;
c. Procuring Independent Validation & Verification services prior to technology
Procurement Request approval;
d. Allowing for multiple vendors on any Procurement Request if feasible,
including allowing for Procurement Requests to be divided into sub-projects
to be bid upon separately;
e. Considering subscription based services, instead of warranty based services
f. Avoiding proprietary systems, while emphasizing open-standards;

(f)

Manage vendors of contracts to:
a. Evaluate the return on investment of Technology;
b. Establish deliverables and time frames for Vendors;
c. Review Independent Validation and Verification of all Technology contracts;

(g)
Create and implement Vendor Management Training for agency directors and managers
who execute contracts;
(h)

Develop post-implementation support models for all Technologies;

(i)

Establish bench marks for service levels within the departments;

(j)

Work with Cook County bargaining units in the reform of Cook County technology;

Section 2-971. - Cook County Chief Information Officer Roundtable
There is hereby established a Cook County Chief Information Officer Roundtable. The
Roundtable shall meet on at least a quarterly basis to 1) implement the annual review, formulate
and guide technological procurement requests; 2) coordinate technological resources; 3) review
past and plan for future technological improvements; and 4) oversee and implement
technological improvements across all Cook County Bureaus and Departments and amongst the
Page 17 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

independently elected officials of Cook County.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

15-2797
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
REPORT
Department: Secretary to the Board
Request: Receive and file
Report Title: Resolution 14-4341 Special Purpose Fund Reporting
Report Period: 1st Quarter FY 2015
Summary:
Resolution 14-4341 directs that a report of all special purpose fund transactions be made
to the Secretary of the Cook County Board of Commissioners by the office or agency responsible for
administering each special purpose fund on a quarterly basis.
Reports shall be provided to the Secretary's office no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal
quarter, at which point the Secretary will aggregate the reports for distribution to the Board of
Commissioners and the Director of Budget and Management Services on the next available Board
Agenda;
Reports shall be in a format as prescribed by the Director of Budget & Management Services. Such
format shall ensure that the reports contain sufficiently detailed supporting information as to the specifics
of each transaction and a justification regarding how each transaction relates to the purpose of the special
purpose fund.
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR

15-2791
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Employer-Sponsored Dental Insurance Benefit Contract Audit Report
Report Period: For the contract period ending 11/30/2014

Page 18 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Summary: The purpose of the audit was to determine the quality of reports submitted to the County
pertaining to the performance guarantees outlined in the contract and evaluate the policies and
procedures of eligibility and claims processing.

15-2857
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: FY’15 1st Quarter - Open Findings Status Report
Report Period: For the quarter ended 2/28/2015
Summary: Status of open audit findings and recommendations

15-2859
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Sheriff’s Office Department of Corrections Payroll Overtime Processes Audit Report
Report Period: For the period ended 11/30/2014
Summary: The purpose of the audit was to assess the policies and procedures and internal controls over
overtime usage.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES

15-2870
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Budget & Management Services
Other Part(ies): Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Request: Authorization to amend and execute an intergovernmental agreement between the County of
Cook and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for the reimbursement of payment for certain
services rendered by various County departments and the Forest Preserve.

Page 19 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Goods or Services: The County and the District wish to amend the Agreement to provide for
reimbursement for the provision of certain additional services rendered by County departments and for
payment for services rendered from the Forest Preserve.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 1/1/2015, retroactively, to 12/31/2015, with additional one year annual renewal
provisions
Fiscal Impact: $150,000.00
Accounts: Various
Summary: In an effort to encourage consolidation and cooperation where appropriate, Cook County and
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement on 8/21/2012
authorizing the parties to perform various services for the other in accordance with the Intergovernmental
Cooperation Act. The parties agreed to provide various services and to provide reimbursement for said
services. The Intergovernmental Agreement was first amended on 8/25/2013 to allow for additional
cooperation. This Third Amended and Restated Intergovernmental Agreement with the Cook County
Forest Preserve District consolidates prior agreements into one Intergovernmental Agreement, so the
parties can refer to one agreement detailing thecooperative services and reimbursement costs and expands
the cooperation to address technology related services, landscaping and various other services. Upon
approval by the Board of Commissioners, the President shall execute the Intergovernmental Agreement.

15-2871
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget & Management Services
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: 1st Quarter, FY 2015 Transfer Requests $10,000 and Under
Report Period: 12/1/2014 – 2/28/2015
Summary: The report consists of the list of transfer requests $10,000 and under within and between
accounts for 2015 Fiscal Year, 1st quarter ending 2/28/2015.

Page 20 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

15-2743
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 3/12/2015 - 4/8/2015
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT

15-2705
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Risk Management
Vendor: Minnesota Life Insurance Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Group Term Life Insurance Benefits for eligible Cook County employees.
Contract Value: $7,716,084.22
Contract period: 6/1/2015 - 5/31/2018, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options

Page 21 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $1,223,804.00, FY 2016 $2,508,798.20, FY 2017
$2,634,238.11, FY 2018 $1,349,243.91
Accounts: 490/499/899-175
Contract Number(s): 1488-13904
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: A Request for Proposals was released in September 2014 for Group Term Life Insurance
Benefits for Cook County Employees in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Minnesota
Life Insurance Company was selected based on established evaluation criteria. The vendor will provide full
record keeping, online evidence of insurability, and an electronic beneficiary designation and claim
submission process, which represents significant improvements to this County employee health benefit.
The basic group term life insurance coverage provided by the County for employees is provided at no cost
to the employee. Employees are also offered a supplemental product. The current supplemental product is
a flat rate for all enrolled employees; the new vendor is proposing an age banded supplemental life
insurance plan which, in turn, improves the pricing of the basic group term life product. The monthly
premium rates are guaranteed for the term of the contract and represent a cost-savings over the incumbent
vendor.

15-2825
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Risk Management
Request: To approve item 15-2331 as amended
Item Number: 15-2331
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Account(s): N/A
Original Text of Item: The original item was approved under Jarvas Hodges and Staver and Gainsberg.
Staver Law Group, P.C. returned a request for settlement draft letter with the signed General Release
Form requesting that the settlement draft be issued and made payable to Jarvez Hodges and his attorneys,
Staver Law Group, P.C.
15-2331
Department: Department Of Corrections
Claim Number: 97011388
Claim Payment: $12,750.00
Account Number: 499 826
Fixed Charges Department: 499
Claimant: Jarvas Hodges and Staver and Gainsberg PC Group, P.C. Jarvez Hodges and his attorneys,

Page 22 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Staver Law Group, P.C.
Property Damage/Bodily Injury: Lumbar and Elbow Injuries
County Driver: Terrence Whittler
Unit/Plate Number: S16 195
Prior Accidents: 0
Date of Accident: 09/12/2014
Location: 4545 W. Cermak Avenue, Chicago, IL
Incident/Activity: Cook County Sheriff's vehicle was making a left turn into 4545 W. Cermak Avenue
in Chicago and while making his left turn the County vehicle collided with the Claimant's vehicle
causing bodily injuries to the claimant. The claimant was diagnosed with lumbar facet syndrome, lumbar
discogenic pain, lumbosacral radiculopathy and right elbow medial epicondylitis Investigated by CCMSI
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

15-0728
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Bureau of Administration
Vendor: Constellation Energy Services, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Purchase and delivery of electricity
Contract Value: $345,000.00
Contract period: 11/20/2015-12/31/2018 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2016 $115,000.00, FY2017 $115,000.00, FY2018
$115,000.00
Accounts: 499-410, 500-410, 501-410, 564-410, 893-410, 894-410, 897-410, 898-410
Contract Number(s): 1428-13749
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Summary: Constellation Energy Services, Inc., is an Alternate Retail Electric Supplier
(“ARES”) as defined in Section 16-102 of Illinois Public Act 90-561. The County currently uses
an average of 230,000,000 kWh annual with a total estimated annual cost of $17.6 million which
includes the commodity, transmission, distribution, capacity, ancillary, and administrative costs.
Constellation Energy Services Inc., shall supply and deliver electricity at any designated County
Page 23 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

location. Constellation Energy shall also work with the County to lock favorable rates for the
supply and delivery of electricity and will provide monthly, consolidated reconciled bills to the
County.
Upon the approval of this contract, the Chief Administrative Officer, or designee, shall be
authorized to execute, the Transaction Confirmation which, provides for the supply and delivery
of electricity for various County accounts in accordance with the contract. Request or Proposals
(RFP) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement code.
Constellation Energy Services, Inc. was selected based on established criteria.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

15-2691
Presented by: STEPHEN J. CINA, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Medical Examiner
Vendor: Eco-Clean Maintenance, Inc., Elmhurst, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Janitorial Services
Original Contract Period: 8/1/2013 - 7/31/2015, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$511,187.52

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/17/2013, $511,187.52
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $520,788.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $86,798.00, FY 2016 $260,394.00, FY17 $173,596.00
Accounts: 259-235
Contract Number(s): 1328-12531
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

Page 24 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Office of the Medical Examiner (OME) is requesting authorization to increase and
exercise both renewal options allowed in the contract. Exercising both renewal options at this time gives
the OME a cost savings of $3,600.40.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. This contract is very important to the OME. The building needs to be sterilized
every day under the Center for Disease Control guidelines. The vendor has provided the needed services
to keep the OME clean and free from diseases.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

15-2230
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): PAV2, LLC, in Taylor, Michigan
Request: Approval to enter into and execute a Highway Authority Agreement
Goods or Services: N/A
Location: 8596 West Dempster Street at Greenwood Avenue (CH W28) Village of Niles
Section Number: N/A
County Board District:

9

Centerline Mileage: N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways submits for execution Highway Authority
Agreement along with a Supplemental Agreement (together considered as “Agreement”) with PAV2,
LLC for facilities at 8596 West Dempster Street, the intersection of Dempster Street at Greenwood
Avenue (CH W28) in the Village of Niles.
The Agreement has been prepared in compliance with Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA)
directives in dealing with petroleum contamination to soils. The County, by executing the Agreement,
will agree to restrict the extraction of potable water from its highway right-of-way at this location, inform

Page 25 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Permittees of the proscribed status of the referenced location and require that Permittees properly dispose
of excavated soil. The Agreement further makes provisions for reimbursement of expenses incurred by
the County should the Department of Transportation and Highways be required in the course of normal
maintenance to expose and dispose of contaminated soils.
This agreement has been examined and approved by this Department. I therefore respectfully
recommend that it be executed in accordance with the accompanying Resolution.

15-2313
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Transportation and Highways, Sheriff’s Office, Forest Preserve District, Stroger
Hospital, Oak Forest Health Center and Provident Hospital.
Vendor: Mansfield Oil Company, Gainesville, Georgia
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute

Good(s) or Service(s): Motor Fuel (Unleaded Fuel, Diesel and Bio-Diesel Fuel)
Contract Value: $2,085,721.00
Contract period: 5/1/2015 - 4/30/2016, with one (1), one (1) year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $1,216,671.00 - FY 2016 $869,050.00
Accounts: Various 445 Accounts
Contract Number(s): 1584-142997
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:
The Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways in conjunction with the Sheriff’s Office,
Forest Preserve District, Stroger Hospital, Oak Forest Health Center and Provident Hospital are
requesting to enter into a new contract with Mansfield Oil Company. The contract will be used for Motor
Fuel (Unleaded Fuel, Diesel and Bio-Diesel Fuel) throughout Cook County.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
Mansfield Oil Company was previously awarded a contract through a Request of Proposal (RFP) process
through the National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance (NIPA), a national government purchasing
cooperative in corporation with the City of Fort Worth, Texas. Cook County wishes to leverage this
procurement effort.

Page 26 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2541
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various Cook County Agencies
Vendor: Motta’s Auto Service, Schaumburg, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Automobile Maintenance and Repair for Zone One (1)
Original Contract Period: 6/11/2012 - 6/10/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 6/11/2015 - 6/10/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$615,338.39

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/5/2012, $535,338.39
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

7/2/2014, $80,000.00

This Increase Requested: $130,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015, $54,166.65; FY 2016, $75,833.35
Accounts: Various 444 Accounts
Contract Number(s): 11-53-185A
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Contract Number: 11-53-185A was awarded through the competitive bidding process in
accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. This increase and renewal will allow for a
continuation of services which provide automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County-owned
vehicles in Zone One (1).

Page 27 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2544
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various Cook County Agencies
Vendor: Automotive Tech Center, Oak Park, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Automobile Maintenance and Repair for Zone Two (2)
Original Contract Period: 11/1/2012 - 10/30/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 11/1/2015 - 10/30/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$538,100.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 10/16/2012, $289,100.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

6/18/2014, $100,000.00

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/3/2014, $149,000.00
This Increase Requested: $465,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015, $38,750.00; FY 2016 $426,250.00
Accounts: Various 444 Accounts
Contract Number(s): 11-53-185B
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract was awarded through the competitive bid process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. This increase will allow for a continuation of services which provide
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County-owned vehicles in Zone Two (2).

15-2545
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Various Cook County Agencies
Vendor: Auto Experts of Oak Park, Oak Park, Illinois

Page 28 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Automobile Maintenance and Repair for Zone Three (3)
Original Contract Period: 11/1/2012 - 10/30/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 11/1/2015 - 10/31/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$499,100.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 10/16/2012, $289,100.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

6/18/2014, $160,000.00

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/24/2014, $50,000.00
This Increase Requested: $136,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015, $11,333.33; FY 2016, $124,666.67
Accounts: Various 444 Accounts
Contract Number(s): 11-53-185C
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract was awarded through the competitive bid process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. This increase will allow for a continuation of services which provide
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County-owned vehicles in Zone Three (3).

15-2597
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): A. Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc. in the Village of Schaumburg, Illinois
Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): The work, consisting of improvement to Narragansett Avenue from 87th Street
to 79th Street included removal of the existing bituminous pavement, reconstruct three 12 foot lanes, one
lane in each direction and one center turning lane with additional parallel parking lanes, aggregate
subgrade, bituminous stabilized sub-base, binder and surface course, storm sewer and associated
drainage structures, class b patching of the existing concrete pavement, concrete curb and gutter, street
lighting, temporary traffic signals, pavement striping, signing, traffic control, landscaping, topsoil,

Page 29 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

sodding and other related road work required to complete the improvement. Additional quantities of
concrete patching, concrete pavement, aggregate subgrade and drainage related items.
Location of Project: Narragansett Avenue, 87th Street to 79th Street in the City of Burbank
Section: 08-W3719-04-FP
County Board District: #11
Contract Number: 10216
Federal Project Number: M-HPP-0318(106)
Federal Job Number: C-91-008-09
Final Cost: $4,078,573.06 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $110,484.56 or 2.78% above the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: On 6/14/2011 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to A. Lamp Concrete Contractors,
Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans
and specifications.
The awarded contract amount of this project was $3,968,088.50 and the final construction cost is
$4,078,573.06. The increase was due to additional quantities of concrete patching, concrete pavement,
aggregate subgrade and drainage related items.

15-2598
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies):

Greco Contractors, Inc., in the City Des Plaines, Illinois

Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s):
The work, consisting of improvement to Arlington Heights Road from
University Drive to Lake Cook Road included reconstruction of existing pavement with concrete
pavement, aggregate subgrade, storm sewer and associated drainage structures, class b patching of the
existing concrete pavement north of Whitehall Drive, concrete curb and gutter, temporary traffic signals
at Dundee Road, replacement of existing traffic signals at University Drive and partial replacement at
Nicholas Road/Bernard Drive, pavement striping, signing, traffic control, landscaping, topsoil, sodding
and other related road work required to complete the improvement.
The increase was due to additional
quantities of earth excavation, concrete pavement, aggregate subgrade, trench and backfill, topsoil, and
sodding.

Page 30 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Location of Project: Arlington Heights Road, University Drive to Lake Cook Road in the Villages of
Arlington Heights and Buffalo Grove
Section: 09-V6946-03-RP
County Board District: #14
Contract Number: N/A
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $6,315,162.16 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $128,218.83 or 2.07% above the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: On 2/1/2011 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Greco Contractors, Inc., Des
Plaines, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications.
The awarded contract amount of this project was $6,186,943.33 and the final construction cost is
$6,315,162.16. The increase was due to additional quantities of earth excavation, concrete pavement,
aggregate subgrade, trench and backfill, topsoil, and sodding.

15-2599
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Capitol Cement Company Inc., in the City of Chicago, Illinois
Action:

Approval

Good(s) or Service(s): The work, consisting of reconstruction from existing four lane to six lane
concrete pavement and rehabilitation of existing concrete pavement by patching and diamond grinding.
Also included are concrete curb and gutter, medians, sidewalk, retaining walls, bridge removal, bridge
repair, storm sewer improvement, pavement marking, signing, landscaping, traffic signal modernization,
water main relocation, detour routing, traffic protection, landscaping and all other work as required to
complete the improvement. The additions are attributed to the difference between the estimated
quantities and actual field quantities of work performed with increases in patching, curb & gutter,
pavement removal and replacement, diamond grinding of pavement, and additional storm sewer work
and polymer concrete which were required to complete the project due to existing field conditions.
Location of Project: Lake Cook Road, East of Wilmot Road to Pfingsten Road in the Village of
Deerfield

Page 31 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Section: 01-A5020-02-RP
County Board District: 14
Contract Number: N/A
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $6,248,575.85 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount:
Construction Contract Bid Amount\\

$353,542.85 or 6% above the

Summary: On 3/15/2011 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Capitol Cement Company Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications. The awarded contract amount of this project was $5,895,033.00 and the final construction
cost is $6,248,575.85.

15-2600
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Geske & Sons, Inc., Crystal Lake, Illinois
Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Palatine Township 2012 Various. The work, consisting of milling and
resurfacing existing Hot Mix Asphalt pavement patching, pavement markings and traffic protection.
Location of Project: Palatine Township 2012 Various Locations
Section: 12-25156-90-RS
County Board District: #14
Contract Number: 12-28-221
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $370,917.85 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount:
Construction Contract Bid

Page 32 of 76

-$3,535.95 or 0.94% below the

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Summary: On 7/10/2012, your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Geske & Sons, Inc., Crystal Lake,
Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and specifications.
The awarded contract amount of this project was $374,503.80 and the final construction cost is
$370,917.85. This change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field
quantities of work performed.

15-2601
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Status Report
Report Period: Ending 03/31/2015
Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Monthly Progress Report ending 03/31/2015

15-2627
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: New Construction
Location: Joe Orr Road (New) from Torrence Avenue to Burnham Avenue in the Village of Lynwood.
and Unincorporated Cook County
Section: 15-B6737-03-RP
County Board District(s): 6
Centerline Mileage: 2.03
Fiscal Impact: $15,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
resolution appropriating funds for the improvement of Joe Orr Road from Torrence Avenue to Burnham
Avenue in the Village of Lynwood. This improvement, as proposed, will consist of: (1) new

Page 33 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

construction of Joe Orr Road from Torrence Avenue to Burnham Avenue with 10-inch Portland Cement
Concrete (PCC) pavement, 12-inch aggregate subgrade, four 12-foot wide travel lanes with a 16 foot
raised median, 12-foot protected left-turn-lanes at intersections, concrete curb and gutter with storm
sewer and three detention ponds; and (2) reconstruction and/or widening of Glenwood-Dyer Road at its
intersection with Joe Orr Road with 10-inch full-depth Hot Mix Asphalt (HMA) Pavement, 12-inch
aggregate subgrade, four 12-foot wide travel lanes, 12-foot protected left-turn-lanes, a 12-foot
southbound right-turn-lane, concrete curb and gutter, storm sewer, and 10-Foot wide HMA shoulders;
and (3) reconstruction and/or widening of Burnham Avenue at its intersection with Joe Orr Road with
9-inch full-depth Hot Mix Asphalt (HMA) Pavement, 12-inch aggregate subgrade, two 12-foot wide
travel lanes, 12-foot protected left-turn-lanes, 12 foot exclusive right-turn-lanes, and 10 foot wide HMA
shoulders. Work also includes installation of traffic signals at the new intersections, a signal interconnect
along the Joe Orr Road corridor, pavement markings, signing, tree removal, landscaping, traffic control
and protection, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances. This improvement will promote
economic development and regional mobility, and is needed to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

15-2628
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): DuPage County
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Preliminary Engineering Services
Location: Elgin O'Hare Western Access Corridor
County Board District: 17
Section: 15-6EOWA-01-ES
Fiscal Impact: $200,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
resolution appropriating funds for Phase I preliminary engineering services to be conducted by an outside
consulting engineering firm for corridor enhancements along the he Elgin O' Hare Western Access
(EOWA) corridor connecting the Jane Addams Memorial Tollway (I-90) with the Tri-State Tollway
(I-294), portions of which lie within DuPage County and Cook County, and said services shall be
supervised by The County of DuPage forces. The County of DuPage County is the lead agency and will
coordinate closely with the County throughout the project and share information as it progresses, both
parties agree to each pay 50% of the final cost of Phase I engineering. DuPage has entered into an
engineering agreement for professional Phase I engineering services for the EOWA corridor
enhancements. These services support development of the regional economy in accordance with the
Department’s mission statement, and are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of

Page 34 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

providing safe, efficient and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

15-1461
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
JOB ORDER CONTRACT
Department:

Department of Capital Planning & Policy

Summary: The Department of Capital Planning & Policy, as authorized by the Cook County Chief
Procurement Officer, plans to participate in the Cook County’s Job Order Contract (JOC) program to
complete the twelve (12) capital projects listed below. JOC is a quantity based procurement process that
allows facility owners to complete a multitude of repair/maintenance and construction projects with a
single, competitively bid contract. The JOC process generally involves first selecting a pool of potential
contractors through a competitive procurement process, and then identifying projects for such selected
contractors.
The County has already completed a JOC competitive procurement process, and it has created the pool of
generated contractors to perform certain projects generally associated with Maintenance, repairs,
replacement and routine work.
The JOC program has an administrative component managed by the Gordian Group. The Gordian Group
maintains an area price book, which captures the prices for specific construction work items within this
region. JOC contractors bid against the prices included in the price book. The cost, therefore, of any
work performed by the contractor is a contractor markup form the price book. The Gordian Group would
receive 5% administrative fee from Cook County based on the total project cost of the work. The
Gordian Group will manage the JOC process and will verify that all proposals and work are compliant
with the terms and conditions outlined in the JOC contract within the County.
The Department of Capital Planning & Policy, proposes to assign the projects listed below to the Gordian
Group to share with participating JOC contractors.
Project Descriptions:
1. Countywide Emergency Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) and Expansion - After a
systemic review by the County’s DCPP and BOT it was determined that the existing backup
power systems are beyond their useful life as well as need for providing additional capacity to
existing UPS or in some cases providing backup power where no system of this type existed. A
power outage without a sufficient back up power (e.g. UPS, generator), would have negative
impact on the County’s ability to conduct business.
2. DOC Security Enhancements to Inmate Areas - This project will provide added security
enhancements to existing Inmate Areas at the DOC. Provide new vinyl flooring with integral
cove base, and replace/provide new cushion at walls in designated Cermak areas per DOJ
request. Provide entry card readers to existing Medical Areas. Provide new secure enclosures
for battery operated CPAP machines.

Page 35 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

3. Skokie Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations - Recent Federal Court and the Department
of Justice actions have led to required alterations in detention areas and jails. The holding cells
have not been altered since the building was built in 1980. Requirements of detainees with
disabilities have increased in recent years and the facility lacks the physical infrastructure to
meet their requirements.
4. Bridgeview Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations - Recent Federal Court and the
Department of Justice actions have led to required alterations in detention areas and jails. The
holding cells have not been altered since the building was built in 1989. Requirements of
detainees with disabilities have increased in recent years and the facility lacks the physical
infrastructure to meet their requirements.
5. Markham Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations - Recent Federal Court and the
Department of Justice actions have led to required alterations in detention areas and jails. The
holding cells have not been altered since the building was built in 1977. Requirements of
detainees with disabilities have increased in recent years and the facility lacks the physical
infrastructure to meet their requirements.
6. Maywood Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations - Recent Federal Court and the
Department of Justice actions have led to required alterations in detention areas and jails. The
holding cells have not been altered since the building was built in 1975. Requirements of
detainees with disabilities have increased in recent years and the facility lacks the physical
infrastructure to meet their requirements.
7. Rolling Meadows Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations - Recent Federal Court and the
Department of Justice actions have led to required alterations in detention areas and jails. The
holding cells have not been altered since the building was built in 1987. Requirements of
detainees with disabilities have increased in recent years and the facility lacks the physical
infrastructure to meet their requirements.
8. Provident Hospital Boiler Tube Replacement - A recent inspection by Joint Commission on
the Accreditation of Hospitals Organization (JACO) some issues were identified that need to
be addressed. This project involves the removal and replacement of the following; remove and
replace existing pre-heat coils in 10 of the Heating Ventilating Air Conditioning units, and the
removal and replacement of the boiler tubing and the boiler tubing sheets in order to provide
proper heating, conditioning and ventilation.
9. CCAB Adult Probation Renovation - This project will renovate the existing open office space
due to significant water infiltration from Plaza leaks. Reconfiguration of the same space with
new furniture in order to accommodate 60+ new employees. The entire space will be build out
for 205 employees to meet current County Space Standards.
10. New Building-E at Oak Forest Hospital Elevator Modernization - This project will provide
upgrades to the existing elevators at New Building E at Oak Forest Hospital. The elevators are
over 25 years old, (beyond useful life) and upgrades are required to bring to current code, to
address increase in use and rectify issues with obsolete parts required for operation.
11. Stroger Hospital Pharmacy Flooring - This project will provide corrective changes to the
existing space in order to provide a safe working environment. This project estimated cost is

Page 36 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

$225,000.
12. Countywide HH Emergency Power System Upgrade - This project consist of addressing
emergency backup power deficiencies found at various County buildings within CF-Corporate
Facilities, PS-Public Safety & HH-Health &Hospitals portfolio. Backup power and related
systems will be upgraded, and/or replaced, including UPS systems for mini-servers, generator
controls & monitoring devices, and other ancillary backup power supply devices. This project
estimated cost is $710,000.00.
Budgets:
Countywide Emergency Power System Upgrade
DOC Security Enhancements to Inmate Areas
Skokie Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations
Bridgeview Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations
Markham Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations
Maywood Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations
Rolling Meadows Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations
Provident Hospital Boiler Tube Replacement
CCAB Adult Probation Renovation
New Building-E at Oak Forest Hospital Elevator
Modernization
Stroger Hospital Pharmacy Flooring
Countywide HH Emergency Power System Upgrade
Total

$680,000.00
$950,000.00
$300,000.00
$300,000.00
$300,000.00
$200,000.00
$300,000.00
$450,000.00
$2,415,000.00
$342,000.00
$225,000.00
$710,000.00
$7,172,000.00

Schedule:
Countywide Emergency Power System Upgrade 18 Months
DOC Security Enhancements to Inmate Areas 5 Months
Skokie Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations 4 Months
Bridgeview Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations 4 Months
Markham Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations 4 Months
Maywood Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations 4 Months
Rolling Meadows Courthouse ADA Holding Cell Alterations 4 Months
Provident Hospital Boiler Tube Replacement 5 Months
CCAB Adult Probation Renovation 4 Months
New Building-E at Oak Forest Hospital Elevator Modernization 4 Months
Stroger Hospital Pharmacy Flooring 6 Months
Countywide HH Emergency Power System Upgrade 12 Months
Account(s): Bond Account

15-1475
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Capital Planning & Policy
Vendor: Various vendors (see “Summary” below)

Page 37 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contracts
Good(s) or Service(s): Countywide Job Order Contract (JOC) Program
Original Contract Period: 3/20/2013 - 3/19/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$48,000,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/20/2013, $24,000,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/10/2014, $24,000,000.00 (technical amendment to
revise 3/20/2013 figures to accurately reflect Board authority)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/9/2015, 3/20/2015-3/19/2016
This Increase Requested: $11,163,464.62
Potential Fiscal Impact: $11,163,464.62
Accounts: 20000 – County Physical Plant and Various Department Accounts
Contract Number(s): Various vendors (see “Summary” below)
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Amend the authorized amount for the below contracts awarded for the Countywide Job Order
Contract (JOC) Program. JOC is a quantity based procurement process that allows facility owners to
complete a multitude of repair/maintenance and construction project with a single, competitively bid
contract. The JOC process involved first selecting a vendor pool of potential contractors through a
competitive procurement process, and identifying projects for such selected vendors. The contractors
were found to be the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder through a competitive bid process in
accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.

The County is under no obligation to expend the amount requested, and is only obligated to pay JOC
contractors when the construction work is procured through the JOC program. The amendment will allow
the County to extend the utilization of JOC contracts to facilitate all departments’ upcoming projects.
Contract Number(s)

Vendor Pool

Contract Amount Increase

General Contractors
12-28-340 – GC1
Agae Contractors, Inc
12-28-340 – GC2
Paul Borg Construction Company
12-28-340 – GC3
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen & Associates, LLC

Page 38 of 76

$2,254,250.72
$3,000,000.00
$1,993,397.60

 Board of Commissioners
12-28-340 – GC4

BOARD AGENDA

Leopardo Companies, Inc.

April 29, 2015
$2,572,908.92

Electrical Contractors
12-28-340 – EC5
Divane Bros. Electrical Company

$278,657.25

Mechanical Contractors
12-28-340-MC9
S. Mechanical, Inc.
12-28-340-MC10
Paschen Autumn (WBE) Joint Venture

$714.345.21
$349,904.92

15-2704
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Department of Capital Planning and Policy
Grantee: County of Cook
Grantor: Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: Make energy efficient improvements to equipment at Stroger Hospital campus facilities.
Grant Amount: $401,808.00
Grant Period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2015
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: Illinois’ DCEO Public Sector Energy Efficiency Program, Illinois Energy Now, provides
incentives for projects that increase the energy efficiency of local government facilities located in the
service territories of ComEd and Peoples Gas. As per program guidelines, rebates over $150,000.00
require a grant agreement with the Department (DCEO). The Bureau of Asset Management’s Department
of Capital Planning & Policy has applied for and received approval for incentives for energy efficiency
upgrades at Stroger Hospital campus buildings (Stroger Hospital, Hektoen Building, CORE Center, and
Stroger Hospital Powerhouse) completed between 6/1/2014 and 5/31/2015. Cook County will receive
$401,808.00 in incentives for gas saving projects completed (Grant Agreement 15-540007).

Page 39 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2707
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Department of Capital Planning and Policy
Grantee: County of Cook
Grantor: Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: Make energy efficient improvements to equipment at Stroger Hospital campus facilities.
Grant Amount: $554,878.00
Grant Period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2015
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: Illinois’ DCEO Public Sector Energy Efficiency Program, Illinois Energy Now, provides
incentives for projects that increase the energy efficiency of local government facilities located in the
service territories of ComEd and Peoples Gas. As per program guidelines, rebates over $150,000.00 require
a grant agreement with the Department (DCEO). The Bureau of Asset Management’s Department of
Capital Planning & Policy has applied for and received approval for incentives for energy efficiency
upgrades at Stroger Hospital campus buildings (Stroger Hospital, Hektoen Building, CORE Center, and
Stroger Hospital Powerhouse) completed between 6/1/2014 and 5/31/2015. Cook County will receive
$554,878.00 incentive for electric saving projects (Grant Agreement 15-420011).

15-2826
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Department of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: Broadway Electric, Inc., Elk Grove Village, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services

Page 40 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Contract Value: $2,553,000.00
Contract period: 5/6/2015 - 5/5/2016
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $2,553,000.00
Accounts: 1618
Contract Number(s): 1428-14144
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Department Of Corrections Campus is located in 2650 S. California Ave. in Chicago and has
multiple buildings with its own backup generators to provide uninterrupted power in the event of grid
failure. An assessment were performed recently and found some of the existing generators has passed its
manufacturer’s service life expectancy and diminished reliability to provide an adequate power per
original capacity
The General Contractor is to provide all work associated with the removal of existing emergency standby
generators and associated ancillary systems; procure and install new generators and ancillary systems per
design at the following locations: Div 1, Div 4, Div 5, South Campus Building 1 and the Bootcamp.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
On 1/9/2015, bids were solicited for construction services for this project. Broadway Electric, Inc. was
the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

15-2700
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Patten Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Maintenance and repair of generators
Original Contract Period: 11/22/2013 - 11/21/2015, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$106,700.00

Page 41 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/22/2013, $106,700.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $100,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 - $100,000.00
Accounts: 200-450
Contract Number(s): 12-84-387
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Facilities Management is asking for an increase to allow the Department to provide needed
repairs to the generators in all facilities. This contract also has renewal options
This contract was awarded through a competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code.

15-2856
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Fund Transfer
Reason: To provide funding for rental of institutional equipment (charges for industrial, electrical and
shop supplies)
From Account(s): 200-333, $60,000.00)
To Account(s): 200-638, $60,000.00)
Total Amount of Transfer: $60,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
In April of 2015 it became evident that the rental account would need additional funds to enable DFM to
rent essential equipment for the upkeep of facilities. On March 13 the balance was $47,632.00 as of
today the balance is $4,003.00

Page 42 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
This account was chosen because of the amount of unencumbered funds.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
This account was chosen because of the amount of unencumbered funds. Remaining 2014 funds on
pre-existing purchase orders for institutional supplies (account 333) allowed for surplus.

15-2858
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management, Department of Transportation and Highways, and Animal
Control
Vendor: BCR Automotive Group, LLC d/b/a Roesch Ford, Bensenville, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Pick-up trucks
Original Contract Period: 7/26/2013 - 8/15/2016
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$27,405.06

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/26/2013, $27,405.06
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $237,869.27
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY2014: 200 - $156,654.20; FY2015: 510 - $34,585.36, 500 - $46,626.71
Accounts: 200-560611, 510-560611, 500-560611
Contract Number(s): 1218-12560

Page 43 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.
Summary: This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. This increase will allow Facilities Management, the Department of
Transportation and Highways and Animal Control to purchase pick-up trucks needed for their fleet.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

15-2760
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: Northfield Township
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 2550 Waukegan Rd., Suite 118, Glenview, Illinois.
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 154 Square Feet
Monthly Rent: Monthly: $300.00 / Annual: $3,600.00
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Funds
Accounts: 094-660 Account
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with 60 day prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary/Notes: This lease at 2550 Waukegan Road, Glenview, Illinois, for the use of Commissioner
Gregg Goslin’s 14th District field office.

Page 44 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2761
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a Second Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: University of Illinois Board of Trustees
Location: 3rd District Court Building, 2121 W. Euclid, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2017
Space Occupied: 1,200 Square Feet
Monthly Rent: Annual: $10
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By either party with 30 prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary:
The tenant shall continue to use and occupy premises for the purpose of providing
information on 4-H, Youth, Family Life Education and Horticulture/Agriculture programs to residents of
north suburban Cook County. These services are provided at no cost.
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING

15-2726
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Department: Cook County Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Village of Oak Lawn, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with respect to the
Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance between Cook County and the Village of Oak Lawn

Page 45 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Goods or Services: Inspection Services
Agreement Number: N/A
Agreement Period: Two (2) years from the date of execution
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Summary: In accordance with the Cook County Code provisions regulating the registration and
maintenance of vacant buildings and as a result of efforts undertaken by the Department of Building and
Zoning, the Bureau of Economic Development, the Department of Administrative Hearings, the Cook
County State’s Attorney’s Office and representatives of the Village of Oak Lawn, authorization is hereby
requested for the President to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook
County (“County”) and the Village of Oak Lawn (“Oak Lawn”) .
Per Article VII, Section 10 of the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Intergovernmental Cooperation Act 5
ILCS 220/1 et seq., and other applicable law, units of local government are permitted to cooperate with
and support each other in exercise of their authority and the performance of their responsibilities. In
addition, per County’s Vacant Building code provisions, Oak Lawn wishes to document its position as a
“participating municipality” as authorized under the County’s Vacant Building Code.
The purpose of the Agreement is to authorize the collaboration and cooperation between the County and
Oak Lawn to enforce Cook County’s Vacant Building Code provisions within the borders of Oak Lawn
and to document and set forth the obligations of each party to the Agreement. Per the Agreement
1. The Cook County Department of Building and Zoning and its employees (“Department of Building
and Zoning”) to be the enforcing authority with respect to vacant buildings located within the
Municipality’s boundaries.
2. The Municipality shall use its own employees to determine whether buildings within the
Municipality are vacant and unregistered.
3. The Municipality shall provide a copy of the Notice of Violations to the Department of Building and
Zoning of any vacant and unregistered buildings within the Municipality’s borders. Said notice shall be
electronic and shall include the address of the property, the property’s permanent index number, and the
date the Municipality discovered the violation. The County and the Department of Building and Zoning
shall have no duty to discover which buildings within the Municipality are vacant.
4. The Municipality will work with the County and assist the County in its prosecutions of violations of
the Vacant Building Ordinance. Such assistance shall include but not be limited to providing witnesses to
testify at administrative adjudication proceedings.
5. Nothing herein prevents the Municipality from establishing its own register of vacant buildings
(“Municipal Registry”) If such a Municipal Registry is duly established by the Municipality, the
Municipality will provide the County on a monthly basis in electronic form with a complete list of all
registered vacant buildings within the Municipality that were registered on the Municipal Registry within
the preceding month. Such list shall provide all relevant information required by the County for
registration of a vacant building on the County Registry, including but not limited to the name of the

Page 46 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

person or entity that registered the building, contact information and the location of the vacant building.
The term of the Agreement shall be for two years unless otherwise extended and the Agreement may be
terminated by either party upon ninety days written notice.
The Department intends to formally introduce this item at the Board meeting scheduled April 29th, 2015
and understands that it will be referred to the Committee on Zoning and Building prior to Board review.
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

15-2454
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board
Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
FOREST VIEW INVESTMENT EAST LLC CLASS 6B SER
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the following
information:
Applicant: Forest View Investment East, LLC
Address: 6464 West 51st Street
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Forest View, Illinois
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 19-07-201-017-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: R14-13
Number of years property occupied by same industrial user: 15
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Evidence of economic hardship: Yes
Estimated # of jobs created by this project:

3 full-time, 0 part-time

Estimated # of jobs retained at this location: 20 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated # of employees in Cook County: 20 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated # of construction jobs:

40

Proposed use of property: Industrial - logistics, manufacturing, packaging and assembly services

Page 47 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program that provides an applicant a reduction in
the assessment level for a qualified industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed qualified for purpose of Class 6b under the SER
Program; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires the validation by the County Board of the finding that the property
is deemed qualified for purposes of Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program;
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial
enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in
imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of the Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned
property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b SER will be assessed
at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b SER; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 48 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2661
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOHN P. DALEY, Cook County Board

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TRIMARK MARLINN LLC CLASS 6B SER
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the
following information:
Applicant: TriMark Marlinn LLC
Address: 6100 West 73rd Street
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Bedford Park
Cook County District: 11
Permanent Index Number: 19-29-100-069-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 15-002
Number of years property occupied by same industrial user: 11
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Evidence of economic hardship: Yes
Estimated # of jobs created by this project:

30 full-time, 0 part-time

Estimated # of jobs retained at this location: 141 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated # of employees in Cook County: 141 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated # of construction jobs:

40

Proposed use of property: Industrial - distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program that provides an applicant a reduction in
the assessment level for a qualified industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and

Page 49 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, in the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed qualified for purpose of Class 6b under the SER
Program; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires the validation by the County Board of the finding that the property
is deemed qualified for purposes of Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program;
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial
enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in
imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of the Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned
property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b SER will be assessed
at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b SER; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

15-2738
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board

PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Request: Adding an additional Permanent Index Number 28-35-402-015-0000
Item Number: 14-6428
Fiscal Impact: N/A

Page 50 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Account(s): N/A
Original Text of Item:
14-6428
Hazel Crest Commons, LLC CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: Hazel Crest Commons, LLC
Address: 18220-18244 South Kedzie, Hazel Crest, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Hazel Crest Illinois
Cook County District: 5
Permanent Index Number: 28-35-402-013-0000; 28-35-402-015-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 01-2014
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
TEERM (TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION (Vacant
for more than 12 months but less than 24 months - No Purchase for Value) Justification: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 50 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: none
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: none
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10-20
Proposed use of property: commercial use plasma donation center
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial/commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that

Page 51 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

justify finding that the property as abandoned for purpose of the Class 8 TEERM (TEMPORARY
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment according to the TEERM definition, abandonment is defined as
a facility being vacant over 12 months but less than 24 months with no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, in such instances, the County may determine that special circumstances exist under
TEERM; thus qualifying the property as abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 TEERM requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as
abandoned for the purpose of the Class 8 TEERM; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 TEERM is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8 TEERM; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

15-2798
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook
County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
GRAND JEN REALTY LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Grand Jen Realty LLC
Address: 10499 164th Street
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Orland Park
Cook County District: 17
Permanent Index Number: 27-20-401-012-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 1508

Page 52 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 24
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 20 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 0 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 0 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 0 full-time, 0 part-time
Proposed use of property: Industrial- document shredding and hard drive-media destruction
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation ; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property as being deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as abandoned
for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and

Page 53 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

15-2820
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook
County Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
M&B SOLUTIONS LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: M&B Solutions LLC
Address: 13555 Main Street, Lemont, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Lemont
Cook County District: 17
Permanent Index Number: 22-14-300-035-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: R-24-12
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Nine (9) months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 40 full-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20
Proposed use of property: Logistics, storage and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and

Page 54 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

15-2821
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board
Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
1600 James LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: 1600 James LLC
Address: 1600 James Drive, Mt. Prospect, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Unincorporated Elk Grove Township
Cook County District: 9
Permanent Index Number: 08-23-101-063-0000 and 08-23-101-064-0000

Page 55 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Municipal Resolution Number: UNINCORPORATED COOK
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 29 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10-15 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: none
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: none
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10
Proposed use of property: Industrial warehousing distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

Page 56 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

15-2822
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, Cook County
Board Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ALSIP MINIMILL LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Alsip Minimill LLC
Address: 13101 S. Pulaski Road, Alsip, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Alsip
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 24-35-101-055-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 2015-4-R-3
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: six (6) months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 90 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: none
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: none
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 60
Proposed use of property: Industrial manufacturing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and

Page 57 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

15-2693
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantee: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantor: Federal Emergency Management Agency
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Page 58 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Purpose: The purpose of the Port Security Grant Program is to build an enhanced and sustainable
capacity to prevent, protect against, respond to, mitigate the effects of, and recover from acts of terrorism
on the Urban Area’s ports.
Grant Amount: $487,500.00
Grant Period: 2/1/2015 - 7/1/2016
Fiscal Impact: $162,500.00
Accounts: 499-818
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The Port Security Grant Program funds will be used to build an enhanced and sustainable
capacity to prevent, protect against, respond to, mitigate the effects of, and recover from acts of terrorism
and other catastrophic events specific to maritime security. The FFY2014 Port Security Grant contains a
cumulative non-federal commitment in the amount of $162,500.00. This commitment will have no fiscal
impact to Cook County.
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

15-2860
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 700 ECONOMIC PACKAGE FOR THE CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT
COURT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County and Teamsters
Local 700; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the Salary Schedules
included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
Cook County and Teamsters Local 700; and
(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 1.00%
(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications shall

Page 59 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

be increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.25%
(f) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 2.00%

WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX
Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

12/1/15
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate
increase (.50 percent increase on 12/1/15 and
.50 percent increase on 12/1/16)

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the economic package including wages increases and healthcare as provided by the Bureau of
Human Resources.

15-3005
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 700 ECONOMIC PACKAGE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
Page 60 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through
November 30, 2017 has been negotiated between Cook County, the Cook County Sheriff and
Teamsters 700 (representing Department of Corrections); and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the Salary
Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County of
Cook, Cook County Sheriff, and Teamsters Local 700 (representing Department of
Corrections); and
(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 1.00%
(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.25%
(f)

effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 2.00%

WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX
Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

12/1/15
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate increase
(.50 percent increase on 12/1/15 and .50 percent
increase on 12/1/16)

Page 61 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the economic package including wages increases and healthcare as provided
by the Bureau of Human Resources.

15-2861
Presented by: REBECCA STRISKO Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Human Resources
Vendor: Jackson Lewis, P.C. Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Legal Consultation and Representation
Original Contract Period: 6/18/2014 - 5/15/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/16/2015- 5/15/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$453,705.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/18/2014; $453,705.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $350,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $350,000.00
Accounts: 490-261
Contract Number(s): 1441-13769
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Human Resources seeks to extend the contract for legal services

provided by Jackson Lewis, P.C. The attorneys have been an integral part of the collective
bargaining negotiations since 2012, and the County is near the completion of negotiating
collective bargaining agreements. The extension of this contract would provide the continuation
of services necessary to conclude labor negotiations.

Page 62 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2864
Presented by: REBECCA STRISKO Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resource Biweekly Activity Report for Pay Periods 6 and 7.
Report Period: Pay 6: 2/22/2015 - 3/7/2015 and Pay Period 7: 3/8/2015-3/21/2015.
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity Reports covering the pay periods listed above.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

15-2353
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: CDW Government LLC, Vernon Hills, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Countywide software and network equipment
Current Contract Period: 5/13/2013 - 5/14/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $28,165,500.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/8/2013, $28,165,500.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $14,000,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:
$3,800,000

FY2015: $10,200,000 (grant: $8,100,000. Other: $2,100,000); FY2016:

Accounts: Various departments and grants - 441 and 579 Accounts

Page 63 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Contract Number(s): 13-28-026
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: In 2013, Cook County leveraged pricing discounts available to volume purchasers by
aggregating its technology needs with the City of Chicago. A joint City-County Collaboration RFP was
issued pursuant to Section 34-142 of the Cook County Procurement Code and representatives from both
government entities recommended that CDW Government LLC be awarded. The contract allows County
agencies to procure necessary software and equipment for their operational needs.
The County has since used the contract for, among other purposes, the Countywide migration to the
shared Microsoft Office 365 cloud email solution, and the purchase of several mission-critical security
solutions with grant funds earned by the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
(DHSEM).
To facilitate additional software purchases by DHSEM, other offices under the President, and separately
elected officials, the Bureau of Technology (BOT) and DHSEM respectfully request that this Board
approve an increase to contract number 13-28-026. The proposed increase will offset grant money
purchases made under the current limit and allow other agencies to maintain their normal pace of
spending under the competitive volume pricing discounts. A corresponding amendment will reduce the
mark-up cost for any newly added software items.

15-2997
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology, Justice Advisory Council, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Vendor: Tribridge, Inc., Tampa, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Juvenile Resident Management Information System
Contract Value: $3,527,590.00
Contract period: 5/1/2015 - 4/30/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options.
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $1,917,770.00; FY 2016 $1,161,640.00; FY 2017:
$448,180.00
Accounts: 440-260
Contract Number(s): 1418-13665

Page 64 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Technology, the Justice Advisory Council, and the Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center (JTDC) respectfully request that the board approve contract number 1418-13665,
which will replace the JTDC’s current juvenile resident management information system with a more
robust, flexible, and scalable solution. The new solution will be part of the quality control and data
requirements needed to bring the JTDC into full compliance with a current court order and facilitate
JTDC’s transition to the Office of the Chief Judge. Competitive Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures
were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Tribridge, Inc. was selected
based on established evaluation criteria.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION
The following item was deferred at the 4/1/2015 Board of Commissioners meeting.

15-2340
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Steiner Security Services, Inc., Crestwood, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s):

Armed Security Guard Services

Contract Value: $310,236.00
Contract period:

5/1/2015 - 4/30/2017, with two (2) one(1) year renewal options.

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:
$64,632.50
Accounts:

FY2015: $90,485.50; FY2016: $155,118.00; FY2017:

532-260

Contract Number(s): 1553-14355
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 65 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Summary: On 3/6/2015, bids were solicited for armed security guard services for the department’s
leased office at 1639 West Walnut Street, in Chicago. Probationers report to their probation officers in
this facility. The contract would provide three armed guards during business hours.
Competitive bid procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Steiner Security Services, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder meeting the solicitation
requirements.
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT

15-2662
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Smith Movers, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Records Transfer
Contract Value: $220,000.00
Contract period: 5/6/2015 - 5/5/2016
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $220,000.00
Accounts: 499-260
Contract Number(s): 1523-14399
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Clerk of the Circuit Court requests authorization to enter into a contract with Smith
Movers, Inc. to transfer approximately 106,200 storage boxes containing court records from the
warehouse floor onto shelving at the Cicero Records Storage and Digital Imaging Center located at 1330
S. 54th Avenue, Cicero, Illinois 60804. The records were moved from the 1120 E. 89th Street
Warehouse to the new records facility in Cicero, prior to the completion of the shelving installation.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
On 3/18/2015, bids were solicited for the records transfer, with five vendors submitting bids. Smith
Movers, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

Page 66 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

PUBLIC DEFENDER

15-2695
Presented by: AMY CAMPANELLI, Public Defender of Cook County
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Public Defender
Request: We are requesting to transfer money from our Expert Witness account to our Maintenance
account
Reason: When the FY2015 budget was created, a maintenance contract for Legal Edge was overlooked.
From Account(s): 260-264, $19,810.00
To Account(s): 260-441, $19,810.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $19,810.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
It was determined that the account would need an infusion of funds on 3/17/2015 in order to meet current
obligations. The balance in the account was $26,000 on 3/17/2015 and was $26,000 30 days prior to that
date.
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
We currently predict a slight surplus in our Expert Witness account. Our Office Supply account was also
considered, but it was determined that we will be spending at or just below our appropriation.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
There will be no projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority to our Expert Witness
account.
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
The account was budgeted based on past fiscal years expenditures. It is very hard to determine the exact
amount of Expert Witness costs that will be needed each year.

Page 67 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

RECORDER OF DEEDS

15-0505
Presented by: CEDRIC GILES, Chief Deputy Recorder
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Recorder of Deeds
Vendor: Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Legal Counsel for Shakman Compliance
Original Contract Period: 2/1/2013-3/31/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/1/2015-12/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$390,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/3/2013, $150,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 11/19/2014, $150,000.00; 4/1/2014-3/31/2015
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $90,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $90,000.00
Accounts: 130-263
Contract Number(s): 1390-12614
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This amendment modifies Contract 1390-12614 for Legal Counsel between the Recorder of
Deeds Office and Hinshaw & Culbertson, LLP for the purpose of continuation of services for Shakman
Compliance. This contract was originally awarded as a Sole Source procurement pursuant to Section
34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.

Page 68 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

15-2724
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff
Vendor: WEX Bank, Inc. d/b/a Wright Express Financial Services, Midvale, Utah
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s):

Motor vehicle fuel card purchases

Original Contract Period:

7/1/2013 - 6/30/2014

Proposed Contract Period Extension:

7/1/2015 - 6/30/2016

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$9,500,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement):

6/19/2013, $4,750,000.00

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

6/18/2014, $4,750,000.00, 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $4,750,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $1,500,000.00, FY 2016 $3,250,000.00
Accounts: 499-445
Contract Number(s): 1390-12720
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:
This contract was awarded in 2013 through the use of a Comparable Government
Procurement agreement through a State of Illinois contract, pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook
County Procurement Code. The request to extend and increase this contract will provide for fuel card
purchases for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the following County offices: Cook County
Department of Revenue, Office of Chief Administrative Office, Cook County Bureau of Technology,
Cook County Assessor, Cook County Treasurer, Office of the Cook County Independent Inspector
General, Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Department of Environmental Control, Department of Facility
Management, Cermak Health Services of Cook County Hospital, State’s Attorney Office, Cook County
Medical Examiner, Cook County Public Defender, Department of Homeland Security & Emergency
Management, Adult Probation, Public Guardian, Cook County Office of the Chief Judge, Cook County

Page 69 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

Circuit Court Social Services Department, Juvenile Probation, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center,
Cook County Bureau of Administration, Animal Control, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Cook County
Clerk’s Office, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, Cook County Department of Public Health
and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County Building & Grounds.

15-2725
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s):
Vendor:

Cook County Sheriff

Taser International Inc., Scottsdale, Arizona

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Tasers and Accessories
Original Contract Period:

1/7/2015 - 1/6/2017

Proposed Contract Period Extension:

N/A

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$54,898.06

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/7/2015, $54,898.06
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $288,547.43
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $288,547.43
Accounts: 717/230-521(717/231-521, 717/239-521)
Contract Number(s): 1411-13770
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Cook County Sheriff’s Office is requesting authorization to increase Contract Number
1411-13770 for tasers and accessories that will be used throughout the Sheriff’s Office by officers
certified in their usage. This increase is being requested to expend newly allocated 2015 Capital Funds.
This Sole Source contract was awarded pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Procurement Code.

Page 70 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2740
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff
Vendor: Industrial/Organizational Solutions, Inc., Westchester, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Entry Level and Promotional Testing Services
Original Contract Period: 6/14/2011 - 6/13/2014, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 6/14/2015 - 6/13/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$865,860.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/15/2011, $865,860.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/20/2014, 6/14/2014 - 6/13/2015
This Increase Requested:

N/A

Potential Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: 249-260
Contract Number(s): 11-50-54
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Cook County Sheriff’s Office is requesting authorization to exercise the second renewal
option for Contract No. 11-50-54 for entry level and promotional testing and pre-examination preparation
seminars. This contract was awarded through a Request for Proposals (RFP) process in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code.

Page 71 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

15-2742
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Best Technology Systems Inc., Plainfield, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Maintenance and Decontamination Services
Original Contract Period: 6/3/2012 - 6/2/2014, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 6/3/2015 - 6/2/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$256,926.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/1/2012, $164,400.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/4/2014, $92,526.00,
6/3/2014-6/2/2015
This Increase Requested: $82,200.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $82,200.00
Accounts: 214-449
Contract Number(s): 12-45-011
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Cook County Sheriff’s Office is requesting authorization to increase and exercise the second
renewal option for Contract Number 12-45-011 to continue maintenance and decontamination services
for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office Training Institute Firearms Range.
This contract was awarded through a competitive bidding procedure, in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code.

Page 72 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

15-2577
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; GARVIN G. AMBROSE, Chief of
Staff, State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: The grant will provide funding for a total of 13 victim specialists including two (2) Juvenile
Court Specialists who are dedicated to serving victims of juvenile offenders, one (1) TAC Specialist who
provides direct services to victims of high-risk domestic violence, seven (7) Victim Generalists who
provide services to victims of all types of felony crimes, one (1) Polish-Speaking Specialist and two (2)
Spanish-Speaking Specialists who provide services to non-English speaking victims.
Grant Amount: $742,227.00
Grant Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2015
Fiscal Impact: $239,792.00 (Required Match: $185,557.00; and Over Match: $54,235.00)
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 4/9/2014
Most Recent Grant Amount: $742,227.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: These grant funds enable the State's Attorney's Office to continue to provide direct services,
support, and assistance to various sub-populations of crime victims through the dedication of one
Polish-Speaking Specialist and two Spanish-Speaking Specialists who provide services to non-English
speaking victims, one Target Abuser Call (TAC) Specialist who provides direct services to victims of
high-risk domestic violence cases and two Juvenile Court Specialists who provide direct assistance to
victims of juvenile offenders. In addition, the Office is able to dedicate seven Victim Generalists who
are trained to provide services to victims of all types of felony crimes. Examples of direct services
provided by these grant-funded victim assistants include crisis counseling, follow-up contact, interpretive
services, personal advocacy, criminal justice support and advocacy, assistance with filing compensation
claims and information and referrals to outside agencies.

Page 73 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER

15-3003
Presented by: MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer; DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit
Court; ZAHRA ALI, Director, Department of Revenue
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Treasurer’s Office, Clerk of the Circuit Court and Department of Revenue
Vendor: Tyco Integrated Security, Boca Raton, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Alarm System Monitoring and Maintenance
Original Contract Period: 1/1/2013 - 12/31/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $164,888.53
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/30/2013, $72,463.78
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/21/2014, $91,890.75; 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/4/2014, $534.00
This Increase Requested: $93,683.51
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY2015: Treasurer $61,326.10, Department of Revenue $13,619.02, Clerk of
the Circuit Court $18,738.39
Accounts: Various departments - 007-440, 335-449 and 534-630
Contract Number(s): 12-45-395
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Tyco Integrated Security is the sole provider of maintenance services to alarm systems for
three County Agencies (Clerk of the Circuit Court, Treasurer, and Revenue). This request is to extend
and increase the multi-agency contract for the continuation of alarm monitoring services provided by
Tyco for their proprietary alarm security system. This contract was originally awarded as a Sole Source
procurement pursuant to Section 34-129 of the Cook County Procurement Code.

Page 74 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
ASSET MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 14, 2015
15-2346 PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS 28 N. Clark, for the Clerk of the Circuit
Court
____________________
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
15-1516 PROPOSED RESOLUTION protecting access to comprehensive reproductive health care and
supporting increased funding levels
15-2495 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Michael Jasso, Director, Cook County Land Bank Authority
Board of Directors
15-2543 PROPOSED RESOLUTION opposing the creation of Local Right-to-Work Zones in Illinois
____________________

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
15-2365 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Bureau of Economic Development Property Tax
Incentive Program Fee
____________________

RULES COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
15-2974 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 3/11/2015
15-2975 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 4/1/2015
___________________
FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
SUBROGATION RECOVERIES
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS

Page 75 of 76

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 29, 2015

PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
15-1593 REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System Monthly Report
15-2746 REVENUE REPORT Period Ending 2/28/2015
____________________
ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
15-2492 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-08
15-2493 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-11
15-2494 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-12
15-2496 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-13
15-2497 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-14
15-2609 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-10
15-2610 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-15
15-2563 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Special Use SU 14-06 &
Variation V 14-55
____________________
ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE MEETING OF APRIL 29, 2015
15-1705 PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS) 167th Street, Kilbourn Avenue to Park Avenue in the Village of Hazel Crest and Cities of
Country Club Hills and Markham

Page 76 of 76

 