Cook County Gun Violence Task Force
Public Hearing
Feb. 16, 2016
Cook County Board Chambers
118 N. Clark St.
Chicago, Ill. 60602
I)

MEMBERS PRESENT:
Thomas Mahoney, Deputy Chief of Narcotics Prosecutions for the Cook
County State’s Attorney’s office
Brandon Nemec, also of the State’s Attorney’s Office
Fr. Michael Pfleger, pastor of St. Sabina Church
Ernest Brown, Dir. of Homeland Security and Emergency Management for
Cook County
Hazel Crest Police Chief Mitchell Davis
Dr. Beverly Butler of the Chief Judge’s office
Evanston Police Chief Richard Eddington
John Gates, Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office
Dr. Kim Joseph, Stroger Hospital.
ABSENT: Lake County, Ind., Sheriff John Buncich.

II)

OPENING At 10 a.m. Cook County Commissioner Richard Boykin
welcomed the task force members, speakers and attendees, saying the
county’s gun violence problem must be solved before elected officials can
solve other problems. The Task Force will put forward a set of policy
recommendations that will help to reduce gun violence in the city and the
county, Boykin said.

III)

WELCOME Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart also welcomed attendees asked
for few speeches but much data and many ideas:
“If we can come up with 4, 5, 10 small things, micro things, that will be a
home run. Sharing data. We want to get some stuff done that will actually
make a difference on the streets. The goal is no legislative component here.
The goal is one or two minor steps – they will have a huge impact on the
streets.”

IV)

COORDINATOR’S ADDRESS: Task Force Coordinator Mike Anton

encouraged members to “Think Outside the Box” and noted the impact his
department’s joint operations with Chicago Police were having in the city of
Chicago. The Task Force’s recommendations must be driven by research, he said.

 V)

CRIME LAB REPORT Cara Smith, Chief of Policy and Communications for
the Sheriff’s Office, read into the record written testimony from the
University of Chicago Crime Lab Co-director Harold Pollack. (See attached)

VI)

PREVIOUS REPORT SUGGESTIONS Thomas Mahoney, Deputy Chief of
Narcotics Prosecutions for the Cook County State’s Attorney’s office, agreed
with Sheriff Dart that legislation was not the answer. A previous task force
he served on in 2010 made three recommendations he said were never
acted on:

a) Amend the vehicle code to suspend license plates of gun traffickers;
b) All state law enforcement agencies should trace firearms;
c) Public service campaigns -- sports figures to do public service
announcements.
Sheriff Dart said some of those proposals might be worth considering again
for this task force. He noted gun problems were highest in places that could
not afford to pay police well and where turnover on the police force was
high.
VII)

ONLOOKER EFFECT Ernest Brown, Dir. of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management for Cook County, said better roping off crime
scenes would cut down on the “Onlooker Effect” in which “One kid sees a
crime scene, goes back and talks to 30 kids about what he’s seen. Residual
carry-over.”

VIII) COMMUNITY COOPERATION Fr. Michael Pfleger, pastor of St. Sabina
Church, asked Mahoney if “lack of arrests” was an issue with his task force.
With only 24 percent of offenders getting arrested, “To me that says ‘no
consequences’ – You can shoot, you can kill without fear of getting arrested,”
Pfleger said.
Mahoney said that was not part of his task force report.
Sheriff Dart said lack of cooperation from the community was a problem in
some areas his officers cover such as Ford Heights.
Commissioner Boykin agreed, saying federal resources were needed for the
Chicago Police dept. and the Sheriff’s Office.
Director Brown noted clearance rates have gone down nationwide and
suggested a need to ID people who carry illegal guns – precursor behaviors.
He said case report writing is becoming a “lost art.”

 Coordinator Anton said engaging the community is key; talking to the
community because people know, in the neighborhood, who the shooters are,
he said.
IX)

TRAINING Hazel Crest Police Chief Mitchell Davis added that law
enforcement needs to do a better job training first responders.

X)

TRACKING Director Brown said that in addition to compiling a better
profile of shooters, law enforcement needs to do a better job of tracking
weapons.
Coordinator Anton said agency-to-agency communication must improve.
Gang members talk to each other, he said. Law enforcement must likewise
maintain a dialogue. There is easy database to be accessed at ths point, he
said.
Sheriff Dart said he is amazed that some town still do not trace or inventory
guns they confiscate. In some suburbs such as Harvey and Dolton, the guns
the Sheriff’s office takes off the street – not even counting guns the local
police department takes off the street – exceeds the per capita number of
guns confiscated in Chicago.

XI)

MARKETING Director Brown said a marketing campaign such as the one
Mothers Against Drunk Driving employed could help change the culture on
gun violence.

XII)

COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP Kevin Ammons, Community Activist: urged
more community involvement in the hearings and Coordinator Anton said
more hearings would be held in the community.

XIII) UNEMPLOYMENT Commissioner Boykin cited a University of Illinois
report showing nearly 50 percent of young back males are unemployed. He
said Crains did a map showing that areas with the highest numbers of
unemployment had the highest rates of violence.
XIV) STATS Director Smith said the Sheriffs Research Dept. and policy staff are
available as a resource. She added, “We looked at 114 gun offenders
released over 40 days. 55 percent of released were 26 years old or younger.
45 percent declared gang affiliation. 41 percent arrested 10 times or more –
the highest number: 52 arrests. 36 percent had some form of traffic stop. 28
percent were in possession of or admitted using illegal substances.
Illinois State Police Lt. Col. Isaiah Vega and Jessica Trame chief of the
State Police’ Firearms Services Bureau, offered some statistics:
There are just under 2 million FOID card holders in Illinois

 In Cook County, there are 473,537 FOID card holders.
Statewide, the number of revoked cards is 33,250
11,070 of those are in Cook County
There are 2,824 revoked cards in Cook County that have not been returned to
state police.
There are 148,000 Concealed Carry permits in Illinois
In Cook County, there are 39,365 concealed carry permits.
504 permits have been suspended or revoked statewide.
194 permits have been suspended or revoked in Cook County,
143 of those have not been returned to state police.
Among the trends they were noticing:
An increase in orders of protection.
Since Black Friday, they have seen an increase in applications, transfers.
They had 6,600 transactions on Black Friday alone
Typically they see a spike in purchasing through the holidays, but never that
big a spike. Trame noted there were messages from President Obama about
potential gun safety initiatives during that time period.
Trame said a non-compliance list will be sent monthly to each jurisdiction,
naming people who have not turned in their FOID cards
Sheriff Dart urged the to get those lists to his gun team and pledged his
officers would check them out, even if it’s only the “last known address” in
Cook County, Dart said. Vega said he would send the information.
Sheriff Dart asked if they had access to data about people who come into the
Cook County Jail with a FOID card. Trame replied they did not have access to
local databases, just state or federal databases. Hospitals in the state are
supposed to report to them any admissions for mental health, she said.
Commissioner Boykin asked about an increase in expressway shootings –
seven this year alone. Vega said expressway shootings were up and his office
is working with ATF to address issues with matching guns to crimes.
XV)

ADJOURNMENT Coordinator Anton adjourned the meeting at 11:30 a.m.
The next hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m. March 15

 