Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting

Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan, Vice-President Kathleen Therese Meany,
Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Tuesday, December 7, 2010

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:10 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8 - Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan; Kathleen Therese
Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; and
Terrence J. O'Brien

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
10-1326

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday, December
7, 2010 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
Installation of Commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Kathleen Therese
Meany, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays
10-1535

President’s Annual Message
Attachments:

President's Annual Message

A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Debra Shore, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 12/8/2010

 Annual Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 7, 2010

Installation of Commissioners
Clem Balanoff, Deputy Clerk of Cook County, presented the Certificates of Election to
elected Commissioner, Michael A. Alvarez, re-elected Commissioner Barbara J.
McGowan, and elected Commissioner Mariyana T. Spyropoulos.
Following the presentation, the Honorable Laura Bertucci-Smith, Judge of the Circuit
Court of Cook County, administered the Oath of Office to electected Commissioner
Michael A. Alvarez, the Honorable Timothy Evans, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of
Cook County, administered the Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Barbara J.
McGowan, and the Honorable Charles P. Kocoras, U.S. District Judge United States
District Court Northern District of Illinois, administerd the Oath of Office to elected
Commissioner Mariyana T. Spryopoulos.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Patricia Horton, that
the Annua Meeting be adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays
Terrence J. O'Brien adjourned the meeting at 3:05 p.m.
/S/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December
7, 2010, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 7, 2010

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 12/8/2010

 