   
   
   
  

      
  

t??ilm .
tame. is: - =5
. 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Capital Development Committee

Wednesday, February 19, 2014 9:30 A.M. Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

13CAP10001

Transmitting a Communication dated December 3, 2013 from
ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent

requesting authorization to receive and ?le the 2014 update to the 5-Year Capital Improvement Plan. This Plan
includes capital improvement projects identi?ed last year and new projects identi?ed in 2013 as a result of planning
for speci?c sites, the Trail Master Plan process and suggestions from various stakeholders. The dra? Capital
Improvement Plan will be posted for additional review and comments on the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County?s website during December and January and will be ?nalized by February 2014.

The Capital Improvement Plan will be ?nanced by the General Obligation bonds, Construction 
Development and Capital Improvement funds.

Fiscal Impact: None
The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Of?cer have approved this item.

District(s): Districtwide

Legislative History: 12/3/13 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the
Capital Development Committee.

    

 

/si

ecretary

Chairman: Gainer
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members: Fritchey, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri and Steele

