Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Agenda - Final
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Vice-President Barbara J.
McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of
Finance Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele, Commissioner Patrick
D.Thompson, President Kathleen Therese Meany
Thursday, October 2, 2014

9:30 AM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Call Meeting to Order
Roll Call
Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

14-1134

Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will hold a public hearing
at 9:30 a.m. on the 2nd day of October, 2014, in the Board Room at the Administrative
Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the
hearing will be to receive public comments on the intention of the Board of
Commissioners of the District to issue not to exceed $500,000,000 General Obligation
Capital Improvement Bonds of the District to provide funds required for the replacing,
remodeling, completing, altering, constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment
works, administrative buildings, water quality improvement projects, or flood control
facilities, and additions therefor, including, but not limited to, the construction of
pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet sewers, together
with the equipment, including air pollution equipment, and appurtenances thereto, to
acquire property, real, personal or mixed, necessary for said purposes, and for costs
and expenses for the acquisition of the sites and rights-of-way necessary thereto, and
for engineering expenses for designing and supervising the construction of such works
and other related and incidental expenses.
By order of Kathleen Therese Meany, the President of the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago.
Dated the 22nd day of September, 2014.
/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The call of the meeting stated above and the foregoing agenda item is
hereby approved.
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 9/26/2014

 Public Hearing

2

14-1154

Agenda - Final

October 2, 2014

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue General
Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed $500,000,000

Open Discussion
Adjournment

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 9/26/2014

 