STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on August 14, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 5, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the July 5, 2007 meeting. Member Sadlowski
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from August 1 through August 31, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board for review,
and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. L-RC-06-008
1.
International Brotherhood of Teamsters/City of Chicago

Chairman Gallagher began by summarizing the case, noting the ALJ recommended that the Board certify the
petitioned-for unit and neither party excepted to the ALJ's determination that the petitioned-for employees
are not supervisors within the meaning of Section 3(r) of the Act. After a lengthy discussion, Member
Henderson moved to accept the supervisory determination of the ALJ. Member Sadlowski seconded the
motion and it passed unanimously. In regards to the stand alone unit determination, Member Henderson
moved to accept it, Chairman Gallagher seconded, Member Sadlowski dissented and the motion passed with
a 2-1 vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-06-022
Barney Lonzo/Teamsters, Local 726
Acting General Counsel Rios summarized the case stating the Union's decision not to file any of the
grievances sought by Charging Party does not establish intentional misconduct and recommended that the
Board affirm the Executive Director’s Dismissal. Member Sadlowski moved to affirm the dismissal, Member
Henderson seconded and the motion passed unanimously by a voice vote.

Case No. L-CB-07-001
3.
Robert A. Hamilton/Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Acting General Counsel Rios summarized the case stating the Charging Party did not provide any
evidence to support any violations or in support of the charge in the body of his appeal. She then
recommended that the Board affirm the Executive Director’s Dismissal. Member Sadlowski moved to affirm
the dismissal, Member Henderson seconded and the motion passed unanimously by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher updated the Board as to the status of the State's overall budget and other general fiscal
issues, and reported on certain personnel matters. The Chairman, Member Sadlowski, and Member
Anderson then discussed various aspects of the matters presented. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether
there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 11th day of September, 2007.

2

 