April 5th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:18 AM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “4/5/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvine,
Andre Youngblood. Directors Alejandro Silva and Johnny Miller were absent.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Charles Hardwick, and Mark Sanders
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of
March 8th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with four yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess into executive session, based upon
Illinois Open Meetings Act Sections 2 C-- 1,2,5, and 11. After being moved and seconded, the motion
was approved with four yes votes.
After returning to Open Session, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Item 4-A, an
ordinance authorizing the acquisition of real property located at 3242 North Wilton Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved and seconded, the motion was
approved with four yes votes.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Irvine presented the report.
The committee reviewed the monthly report on Finance, and approved the March 8th, 2017 committee
meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine stated that Board Agenda Item 5-B, also listed on the Finance, Audit, and
Budget Committee agenda, had been deferred and not acted upon. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other
Committee agenda items, listed on the Board agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on
the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After being
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with four yes votes.
All approved April 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-28 through 017-33.
CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Report.
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com , “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”, April
5th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the April 5th, 2017 Chicago
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 