COMMISSIONERS

EARLEAN COLLINS
ROBERT STEELE

JERRY BUTLER
STANLEY MOORE
DEBORAH SIMS

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
JESUS G. GARCIA
EDWIN REYES

 

COMMISSIONERS

1st District PETER N. SILVESTRI 9th District
2nd District BRIDGET GAINER 10th District
3rd District JOHN DALEY 11th District
4th District JOHN A. FRITCHEY 12th District
5m District LARRY SUFFHEDIN District
6th District GREGG GOSLIN 14th District

. TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 15m District
7th District JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI 16th District
8th District ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN 17th District

TONI PRECKWINKLE

PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603?6398


MATTHEW B. DELEON
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD

MAY 16, 2013

PUBLIC HEARING MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a Public Hearing meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County on Wednesday, May 29, 2013 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569,
County Building, 1 18 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:

1.

323358

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

COOK COUNTY PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATION TAX
ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Transmitting a
Communication, dated April 30, 2013 from Zahra Ali, Director, Department of Revenue.

respectfully submitting an amendment to the Cook County Parking Lot and Garage
Operation Tax Ordinance.

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President.
The following is a synOpsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED Ii A ENDMENT

COOK COUNTY PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATION
TAX ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article Parking Lot and Garage Operations Tax, Sections 74-510 through 74-
519 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74?510. - Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Parking Lot and
Garage Operations Tax Ordinance.

Printed on Recycled Paper

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 2013

PAGE2

Sec. 74-511. - De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

Charge or fee paid for parking means the gross amount of consideration for the use
or privilege of parking 3 motor vehicle in or upon any parking lot or garage in Cook
County, valued in monev. whether received in money or otherwise. including cash. credits,
property and services, determined without any deduction or costs or expenses whatsoever,
but not including charges that are added to the charge or fee on account of the tax imposed
by this chapter or on account of any other tax imposed on the charge or fee. ?Charge or fee
paid for parking? shall exclude separately stated charges not for the use or privilege of
parking. if any separately stated charge is not optional, it shall be presumed. unless proved
otherwise. that it is part of the charge for the use or privilege ot?parking.

Department or Department of Revenue means the County Department of Revenue.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled.

Operator means any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage, as
de?ned by this article, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of motor vehicles at
a parking place within Cook County.

Parking lot or garage means any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the County, where four or more
motor vehicles are stored, housed or parked for hire, charge, fee or other valuable
consideration in a condition ready for use, or where rent or compensation is paid to the
owner, manager or lessee of the premises for the housing, storing, sheltering, keeping or
maintaining of such motor vehicles.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation,
organization, government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Valet Parking Operator means a person who employs one or more attendants for
the purpose of providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services, but not
in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment, for the purpose of providing a
valet parking service to such establishment located in Cook County.

Valet Parking Service means a parking service provided to accommodate patrons of
any business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the establishment
and by which an attendant on behalf of the establishment takes temporary custody of the
patrons' motor vehicle and moves, parks, stores or retrieves the vehicle for the patrons?
convenience.

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE

PUBLIC HEARING
MAY 16, 2013
PAGE3
Sec. 74-512. - Tax imposed.
A tax is imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in

or upon any parking lot or garage in the County. The tax shall be collected by operators and
valet parking operators, as described in this article, from any person who seeks the privilege
of occupying space in or upon any parking lot or garage.

Valet Parking Operators are required to collect and remit the tax imposed
by this article, for each motor vehicle parked at a Parking Lot or Garage, as described in this
article; however the valet parking operator is not required to collect or remit the tax if the
Valet Parking Operator pays the tax to the Operator, who shall remit the tax to the
Department.

     

(0) Tax rates . 
through June 30, 2013.
1) The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a

motor vehicle in or upon parking lotigrgaragcs, except for parking1 lots and

garages in subsection (2). are in effect through June 30. 2013.

Parking Imposed by Tax
Charge or Fee Operator Amount
Time Period

24 hours or less $2.00 or less $0.00
24 hours or less $2.01 to $4.99 $0.50
24 hours or less $5.00 to $11.99 $0.75
24 hours or less $12.00 or more $1.00
Weekly $10.00 or less $0.00
Weekly $10.01 to $24.99 $2.50
Weekly $25.00 to $59.99 $3.75
Weekly $60.00 or more $5.00
$40.00 or less $0.00
$40.01 to $99.99 $10.00
$100.00 to $239.99 $15.00
$240.00 or more $20.00

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 2013

PAGE4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) The following tax rates imposed upon the use and privilege of parking a
motor vehicle in or upon parking lots or garages owned by municipalities
with populations ot' 250,000 inhabitants or less arenip effect through June
30, 2013.

Parking Imposed by Tax
Charge or Fee Operator Amount
Time Period

24 hours or less $3.00 or less 0.00
24 hours or less $3.01 or $4.99 0.50
24 hours or less $5.00 to $11.99 0.75
24 hours or less $12.00 or more 1.00
Weekly $15.00 or less 0.00
Weekly $15.01 to $24.99 2.50
Weekly $25.00 to $59.99 3.75
Weekly $60.00 or more 5.00
$60.00 or less 0.00
$60.01 to $99.99 $10.00
$100.00 to $239.99 $15.00
$240.00 or more $20.00

Tax rates effective July 1. 2013.

A tax upon the use or privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon
parking lots or garages. except for parkingjots and garages in subsection
is hereby imposed at the rate of 8.5% of the charge or fee paid for
parking. This tax shall not apply if the charge or Fee paid for parking in
such parking lots or garages does not exceed $2.00 For a 24-hour period or
less. $10.00 for a weekly period or $40.00 for a period.

A tax upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon
parking lots or garages owned by municipalities with populations of
250,000 inhabitants or less is hereby imposed at the rate ol? 8.5% of the
charge or fee paid for parking. This tax shall not apply if the charge or fee
paid for parking in such parking lots or garages does not exceed $3.00 for a
24-hour period or less. $l 5.00 for a weekly period or $60.00 for a 
period.

The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on the

person who seeks the privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking lot or garage.

(0

The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to:

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 2013

PAGE 5

(1) Residential off-street parking of house or apartment or condominium
occupants, wherein an arrangement for parking is provided in the house or
apartment lease in a written agreement between the landlord and tenant;

(2) Residential parking provided for condominium occupants pursuant to a
written agreement between the condominium association and the owner,
occupant or guest of a unit owner, whether the parking charge is payable to
the landlord, condominium association, or to the operator of the parking lot
or garage; or

(3) To hospital and medical center employees parking at a parking lot or garage
where the hospital or medical center is the employer and, as described in
this article, operator.

The amount of the tax due under this article shall be computed exclusive of
any Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed.

Sec. 74-513. - Registration.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall obtain a parking tax certi?cate of
registration from the Department prior to the ?rst date of commencing business. Application
for registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.

Sec. 74-514. - Maintenance of records.

It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Director of Revenue shall, at all times, have full access. These
books and records shall include all cash register or other receipts required by this article, all
tickets and voided tags, and a daily sheet for each location showing:

(1) The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage,
segregated on a daily, weekly, or other basis, and also segregated
by the amount of the charge or fee imposed for parking; and

(2) The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking
transactions.
(3) Any other original source documents and books of entry denoting the

transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability,
exemption or deduction or defense to liability.

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 2013

PAGE6

All books and records required by this section shall be retained for not less
than four years after the end of the calendar year in which they are created; provided,
however, that an operator on an annual basis may request approval from the Director of
Revenue to discard tickets or tags that were issued more than one year earlier, and the
Director shall grant approval if the director determines that the operator's books and records
satisfy the requirements of this article.

Sec. 74-515. - Tickets; tags; receipts.

Daily parker tickets. It shall be the duty of every operator to issue to all
persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on a daily basis a distinctive ticket
in the form and manner provided by this section. Tickets shall be issued by the operator in
numerical sequence.

Daily parker ticket detail. Each ticket issued by an operator shall indicate
the name of the operator and the address of the parking lot or garage upon or in which the
motor vehicle is parked. Unless the parking lot or garage is equipped with an automated
ticket dispenser which triggers the opening of a gate, tickets shall consist of three parts; one
part shall be issued by the operator to the recipient, one part shall be retained by the
operator, who shall indicate on the back thereof the time of arrival and departure of the
motor vehicle, and one part shall be attached to the parked motor vehicle for the purpose of
identi?cation. All three-part tickets shall contain the same serial number on each part of the
ticket.

Valet parking tickets. All valet parking attendants must, upon taking
custody of a patron's Motor Vehicle, for the purpose of parking such Motor Vehicle in or
upon any Parking Lot or Garage, issue a distinctive ticket in the form and manner provided
by this section, such tickets or receipts shall be issued in numerical sequence.

Valet parking ticket detail. Each ticket issued by the valet parking operator
shall indicate the name, address and telephone number of the company providing the valet
service, the time and date the valet parking operator took custody of the vehicle, and the
license plate number of the vehicle. Prior to returning custody of the vehicle to each
customer the valet parking attendant must time stamp the ticket with the time, date the valet
parking operator surrendered custody of the vehicle, and indicate the amount of tax paid.

Weekly; parking tags. Every operator shall require a tag to be
attached to each motor vehicle that is permitted to park on a weekly or basis, or
other basis longer than one day. Each tag shall show the name of the operator and address of
the parking lot or garage upon or in which the motor vehicle parked; an identi?cation
number; the number and issuing state of the license plate of the parked motor vehicle; and
whether the motor vehicle is parked on a weekly or or other basis longer than one
day, indicating starting and ending dates of the week, month or other period. Tags shall be
issued by the operator in numerical sequence.

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 201 3

PAGE 7

Tag book. The operator shall keep a book record of all tags issued, showing
each tag's date of issuance, identi?cation number and parking charge imposed. The operator
shall remove, or cause to be removed, and shall void each tag at the end of the week, month
or other applicable period, and shall cause a new tag to be attached to the motor vehicle at
the beginning of each new period.

Parking receipts. It shall be the duty of every operator and valet parking
operator to issue a receipt to all persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on
a daily basis. The receipt shall indicate the parking charge paid and the amount of tax paid.
The operator shall maintain records showing the number of motor vehicles parked, the total
charges paid and the amount of tax collected for each range of parking charges described in
Section 74-512.

Sec. 74-516. - Tax remittance and returns.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall ?le, on forms prescribed by the
Department, a remittance return and remit all taxes due on or before the 20th day of the
month following the month for which the tax is due. Every operator and valet parking
operator shall ?le a return even when no tax is due.

Sec. 74-517. - Fines.

Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, shall be subject to
a ?ne of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each
subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to
exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution
pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute civil
proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-518. - Rules and regulations.

The Director of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this article.

Sec. 74-519. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this article
is silent, the provisions of Chapter 34, Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and

Procedures Ordinance, shall apply and supplement this article.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 05/08/13.

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE
PUBLIC HEARING

MAY 16, 2013

PAGE8

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107
public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at
committee meetings of the Board.

Speaker Registration Deadline: Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those
individuals who have submitted in writing the required information to the Secretary to the Board
NO LATER THAN 24 hours prior to the announced starting time of a meeting.

Online registration allowed: For convenience, an online form will be provided by the Secretary
to the Board on their website, This form must be returned to
no later than 24 hours before a meeting.

In-Person registration: ln?person registration requires the same information be provided. In?
person registration is available up to 24 hours before a meeting at the Cook County Building,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois.

No telephone registration: Only IN-PERSON or ONLINE registrations ?led by the deadline will
be recognized.

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted
in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours
in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver
testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not
present during the speci?ed time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at
the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and
the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise
when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony
shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board;
failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure
to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

The Committee Chairman may, at their discretion, waive the 24-hour registration requirement.

B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Chairman: Daley
Vice-Chairman: Sims
Members: Committee of the Whole

