Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
November 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Juan M. Calderon
Joseph B. Starshak
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Brian Richardson, Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
November 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The October 2018 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Deputy Commissioner, Brian Richardson, provided the following updates:
Mercy Hospital: Commissioner Morita is unable to join us today but has provided a brief message to all in
attendance. I wanted to take a moment to share my thoughts regarding the senseless and tragic murders at Mercy
Hospital Monday afternoon. I am heartbroken over this violence, just as I am heartbroken over the all too common
cases of domestic violence and gun violence here in our city and across our nation – and I know that a situation at
one of our partner hospitals can hit many of us particularly hard. As providers, we must respond to these instances
to provide immediate medical care, and ongoing trauma-informed support to both victims and survivors across the
impacted communities. As public health advocates, we must advocate until the entire nation understands that we
need to use a public health approach to address violence – using data to guide interventions and justify common
sense laws and regulations. Several staff members have reached out regarding safety training and drills, including
active shooter trainings for city staff. Our Emergency Preparedness team had previously scheduled a training for
their team with the Chicago Police Department for next month. I have asked them to provide feedback to me
regarding the training and a plan to roll out trainings across the department in 2019. I am hopeful these trainings
will help us be better prepared for unexpected situations in the unlikely event that they occur. But in the
meantime, we must continue to advocate for systemic changes at all levels of government, so we can reduce the
chance of these terrible tragedies from occurring.
Healthy Chicago 2.0 Symposium: On November 16th, CDPH hosted the Healthy Chicago 2.0 symposium at the Blue
Cross Blue Shield building. The event allowed CDPH to share newly updated Healthy Chicago 2.0 indicator data and
allow partners to explore new ways of strengthening cross-sector collaboration to address inequities and racist
systems that impact health. The knowledge collected will be used to inform our planning efforts moving forward.
LGBTQ Health: CDPH co-sponsoring the film "Party Boi" at the annual Black Alphabet Film Festival (BAFF),
November 16th at Malcolm X College Auditorium. The film explores the rising use of crystal meth in the Black MSM
community. Black Alphabet symbolizes the unity and affirming of diversity in gender and sexual expression within
the Black Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, Queer or Questioning (LGBTQ) community.
HPV Cancer-Free Illinois Roundtable: On November 15th, Commissioner Morita attended the roundtable event cosponsored by American Cancer Society, EverThrive Illinois, Chicago Department of Public Health, University of
Chicago Medicine Comprehensive Cancer Center at Malcolm X College to learn more about the human
papillomavirus (HPV), the burden of HPV-related cancers and disease burden, and how to increase HPV vaccination
rates. Commissioner ended the event with a call to action and a statement to focus the hope of this vaccine.
Vision Zero Chicago: In commemoration of World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims on November 18th
families and loved ones of victims were invited to come to Federal Plaza to gather in the space and commemorate
their loved ones. On November 19, agency officials and partner organizations spoke in memory of individuals that
lost their lives and urged others to support actions to prevent traffic crashes. Vision Zero is Chicago’s commitment
to eliminating death and serious injury from traffic crashes by 2026.
Influenza Campaign: CDPH has hosted flu clinics in all 50 wards with collaboration with Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Illinois, aldermanic offices and various partners to host community events for residents to get their flu shot for no
out-of-pocket cost. Out of the 75 events planned in the 50 wards, two remain for December.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
November 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Tobacco Lawsuits: Last week, Mayor Rahm Emanuel joined Ed Siskel (Corporation Counsel) and Rosa Escareno
(Business Affairs, Consumer Protection), Commissioner Morita and Dr. Lopez to announce that the City of Chicago
will file suit against eight online sellers of e-cigarette products for illegally selling their products to Chicago youth.
The lawsuit, which has been filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, is one of several initiatives designed to
combat the illicit marketing and sales of e-cigarette products to Chicago’s young people. Jesse can explain more in
his policy update.
Request for Information - Healthy Chicago Survey: In October, CDPH released a Request for Information (RFI) to
update the methodology and administration of the Healthy Chicago Survey (HCS). The deadline to submit
responses to the Healthy Chicago Survey Request for Information (RFI) has been extended to Wednesday,
November 28.
Investments in Mental Health: On October 19th, Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Commissioner Morita announced a
$1.4 million investment in the 2019 budget to strengthen bridges between residents and critical mental health
services within their communities. The investments will better connect residents to mental health service
providers, expand the city’s capacity for emergency psychiatric care and support coordinated mental health
community responses following traumatic events. This budget proposal builds on mental health improvements and
is aimed at filling remaining gaps in Chicago’s mental health infrastructure by connecting residents to community
mental health services, expanding capacity for emergency psychiatric care and coordinating post-trauma mental
health community responses.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez expressed thankful remarks to those in attendance.
Policy Update:
 Tobacco.
o The revenue ordinance that passed City Council will double the fee for tobacco licenses, from to
$500 per location and $330 per cash register. BACP will also be adding two new inspectors to its
tobacco enforcement team, which will help with cracking down on sales to minors and sales of
untaxed cigarettes.
o As mentioned, the City of Chicago filed a lawsuit against eight online sellers of e-cigarette
products for illegally selling their products to minors.
o The FDA announced it is banning the sale of flavored e-cigarettes outside of adult-only specialty
stores. However, it is exempting menthol and mint. The FDA is also starting a years-long process
of potentially banning menthol cigarettes and cigars. There will likely be litigation on all fronts, so
we are not sure when implementation will happen.
As you know, tobacco remains the leading cause of early death in the United States, with
disproportionate effects in low-income areas and among people of color.


Opioid epidemic. CPD received a $2 million U.S. HHS grant to train and equip CPD officers to carry and use
naloxone to reverse opioid overdoses, link residents to treatment, and educate the community. The initial
pilot will include six police districts most impacted by opioid use on Chicago’s west and south sides.
Following the pilot, CPD is expected to extend the training to all patrol officers and sergeants citywide. In
addition, thus year’s City budget contains a small increase of $37,000 annually for naloxone in
communities on the south and west sides.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
November 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street


Communicable disease. CDPH is taking a step to modernize its work to stop the spread of HIV, hepatitis,
syphilis, and other communicable diseases. As you may know, there are 71 such diseases that healthcare
providers are required to report to us. We reach out to residents who have contracted these diseases
and, if it’s an STI, the people’s partners to prevent an outbreak and ensure they’re receiving treatment.
But many people, especially younger ones, don’t answer their phones or come to the door, which have
been our normal modes of communication. We now plan to begin sending texts to keep up with the
times, improving effectiveness both in reaching out to residents and in scheduling visits. We will not
include any protected health information in these texts.



Food rules. We are revising the rules governing the food protection programs work.
o As part of the management ordinance, the City Council passed a measure allowing CDPH to apply
the latest model food code released by the FDA and required by the state. The changes in the
new food code are minor—for instance, that the restaurant employee who has a food safety
certificate has to be the manager, not just anyone who works there, and the manager also has to
take allergen awareness training.
o After this ordinance passed, we posted our draft changes to the food code and are now in a 30day public comment period.
o Shared kitchens and food trucks. We have received public comments on these rules and plan on
promulgating in the next couple of weeks.
 Examples of food truck changes is prohibiting them from dumping waste on the street
and ensuring the commissaries where they prepare their food have the necessary
equipment for keeping potentially hazardous food at the right temperature.
 The shared kitchen rules are new but in keeping with the practices we’ve been using,
like requiring shared kitchens to have a CDPH inspection before opening and getting
approval for any menu changes that may affect how often we inspect them.

Comments from Board: Board members were in accordance to address Mercy Hospital as well as a pushing for
policy recommendations to reduce gun violence. A draft resolution of condolence was approved to be drafted to
the Chicago Police Department & Mercy Hospital.
Presentation: “Connecting Chicagoans to an Enhanced Mental Health Infrastructure” by Brian Richardson, Deputy
Commissioner, highlighted CDPH efforts in the city and reviewed the current mental health infrastructure. Juan
Calderon asked if the Mental Health Advisory Board had been invited. Brian Richardson clarified that meetings are
open to the public and are posted to the public in advance online. Mental Health 1-pager and Op-Ed will be
emailed to all board members.
Old Business:
Juan Calderon emailed BOH members the following three recommendations:

1. Create a subcommittee to work with the department’s Director of Policy to formulate policy
recommendations and share annually with the Mayor and the Commissioner of Public Health.

2. Change of venue for 2019 meetings e.g. holding board meetings at different health department centers
and communities. February meeting is to be held at the Englewood Health Clinic. Vote on structure of
agenda deferred to next meeting.

3. Invite the African American and Latino Caucus chairpersons of the city council to give a presentation/or
discussion at BOH meetings that would include recommendations on all health related matters in
Chicago’s communities of color.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
November 21, 2018
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
New Business:


Board Member Juan Calderon suggested a comprehensive resolution on gun violence and on global
warming refugees at the Mexico/U.S. Border to be introduced at next meeting, he volunteered to draft.

Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 11:03 am

 