Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee

Wednesday, March 8, 2017

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (I)

Also Present:

Goslin, Fritchey, Morri son, Schneider and Silvestri (5)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.

I. Mary Hartsfield - Warriors on the Watch, Inc
2. George Blakemore - Concerned Citi zen

17-2114
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/8/201 7
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to approve
17-2114. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (I)

 17-2117
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/15/20 I 7
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to approve
17-2117. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (I)

17-1165
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWJNKLE (President), BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, a1Hi
LUIS ARROYO JR, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS
and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ORDINANCE MODIFICATION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a "Fair and Equal County for Immigrants;" and
WHEREAS, the provision of Cook County benefits, opportunities, or services is not conditioned on matters
related to citizenship or immigration status; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Code currently contains multiple references to "citizen" instead of
"'resident."

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Administration, Atticle
IV, Officers and Employees, Division 5, Inspector General, Section 2-284(10) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-284. - Functions, authority and powers
In addition to other powers conferred herein, the OIIG shall have the following functions, authority
and powers:

•••

Page 2 of 11

 (IO)To create and maintain a toll-free "Office of the Independent Inspector General Hotline" for the
purpose of receiving eitizeA ans emple~·ee reports of corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement,
unlawful political discrimination and misconduct. The identity of any individual placing a call to
the Office of the Inspector General Hotline shall be kept confidential during and after the
investigation of any complaint made by the caller, unless the caller consents to disclosure of his
or her name or disclosure of the caller's identity is otherwise required by law. Alternatively,
reports may be made anonymously.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article V, Departments and Similar Agencies, Division 3, Bureau of Finance, Subdivision
III, Department of Revenue, Section 2-434(5) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec, 2-434, - Power and duties of Director of Revenue
The Department of Revenue shall have the following powers and duties:

***
(5) To investigate, analyze and propose new revenue programs for the County toward the end that
the financial burdens of revenue, tax, license and permit fees may be equitably distributed ameng
the eilizens efwithin the County.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article VII, Ethics, Division 3, Lobbyists, Subdivision II, Registration, Section 2-638 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec, 2-638. - Right to petition County Officials
Nothing in this Division shall be construed to infringe in any way the right ef a eilizeA to lawfully
petition a Commissioner or any other County Official as guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States
and the State.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter I 0, Animals,
Article I, In General, Sections 10-1(1), and !0-3(b) of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 10-1. - Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide harmonious relationships in the interaction between human
and animal by:
Page 3of11

 ( 1) Protecting the eitizeAs of the CsHAt)' from rabies by specifying such preventive and control

measures as may be necessary;

***
Sec. 10-3. - Violations

***
(b) The AdrniAistrator or State's Attorney or aAy eitizef\ of the CeHAty rnay maintain aA complaint may
be brought in the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin all persons in the control of a dangerous
animal from allowing or permitting such animal to leave their premises when not under the control of
a leash and muzzle or other recognized methods of physical restraint.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article III, Vicious and Dangerous Dogs, Section 10- 78( d) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 10-78. - Declaration ofa "vicious" dog

***
( d) In order to have a dog deemed "vicious" a complaint must be filed by the CoHnt)' Department of
AAimal Control, the Offiee of the State's Attorney, any eitizeA of the County, or any vieti1+1 of a dog
attaek if sueh attaek oeeHrred withiA the CsuAt)', in the Circuit Court of the County to deem a deg a
11
viei0Hs 11 dog.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter I4,
Community Development, Article IX, Commission on Social Innovation, Section I4-92(f) of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 14-92. - Purpose
The purpose of this aiticle is to create the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation, which shall
engage in the following activities:

***
(f) The commission shall identify useful strategies to edHeate and train provide education and training
concerning eitizens, noAprofit organizations, governments, studeAts, aAd bHsinesses on
entrepreneurial concepts specifically as applied in the social sector.

Page 4of11

 ***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26,
Emergency Management and Services, Article III, 9-1-1 Surcharge, Section 26-80 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 26-80. - Limitation on use of County funds
The County shall not expend any County funds for the implementation, installation and
maintenance or other related costs attributable to providing a 9-1-1 emergency system for the eitizens of
the County. However, the County may pay for the personnel necessary to operate the 9-1-1 system.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
Article IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
I, General Provisions, Section 34-263 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-263. - Definitions

Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. A Soeially DisaavaAtagea
Aat11ral 13ersoA m11st be a eitizeA or lawfully aami!tecl 13ermaAeAt resicleAt of the UAitecl States.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
A1ticle IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
II, Participation in Cook County Public Works Contracts, Section 34-290 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-290. - Definitions

Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. A Soeially Disadvantages
11at11ral 13ersoA rn11st be a eitizeA or lawfully aarni!tea 13errnaAeAt resiaeAt of the UAitea States.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human
Relations, Article II, Human Rights, Section 42-34(e)(2) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 42-34. - Commission ou Human Rights
The organization and administration of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall be
sufficiently independent to assure that no interference or influence external to the office adversely affects
the independence and objectivity of the Commission on Human Rights.
Page 5of11

 ***
(e) Additional powers and duties. The Commission shall have such additional powers and duties as
reasonably flow from its responsibilities, including but not limited to:

***
(2) Advising and consulting with the President, the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and
officials, departments, and agencies of the County government on assuring and improving the
equality of services to all eiti,,eAs.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46, Law
Enforcement, Article IV, Jail Diversion Program, Division 2, Program Established, Section 46-201 (7) of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 46-201. - Purpose
The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Program are to:

***
(7) Improve positive relationships between target population eiti,,eAs and law enforcement officers.

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article II, Dance Halls and Roadhouses, Division 2,
License, Section 54-61 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 54-61. - License required
No eiti,,e11, firm or eorporatioAperson of this State shall operate a public dance hall or roadhouse used
for public dances in the County, and outside the limits of any city, town or village, without first having
obtained a County roadhouse license for each location of any roadhouse or dance hall.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, A1ticle IV, Outdoor Movie Theaters, Division 2, License,
Section 54-271 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Page 6of11

 Sec. 54-271. - Required
No eitizen, firm or eerpemtioRperson of this State shall operate a public outdoor movie theater used
for public viewing of motion pictures or city, town, or village, without first having obtained an outdoor
movie theater license for each location.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article X, General Business Licenses, Section 54-381 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 54-381. - Purpose
The Cook County Board of Commissioners eeterrniAes that iA ereer te effeetively proteet the flHBlie
health, geAeral welfare, aAe safety efits eitizeAs it has deemed it necessary to establish a General Business
License for Unincorporated Cook County for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 78,
Telecommunications, Article II, Cable Television Ordinance, Section 78-41(4) of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 78-41. - Purpose
The purpose of this article is to:

***
(3) Provide for the development of cable television as a means to improve communication between
and among the eitizeRspersons and public institutions of the County; and

***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 82, Traffic
and Vehicles, Article I, County Vehicle Code, Section 82-2 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 82-2. - Purpose
In ereer te better promote the publie safety, health, aAe welfare ef its eitizens this This Vehicle Code
was established for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. This Vehicle Code will apply
to:
(I) Properties owned and managed by Cook County;
(2) Private properties and roads within Cook County whereby the County has entered into an
agreement to enforce parking and/or traffic regulations; and
Page 7of11

 (3) Public Properties and public ways, streets and highways located in incorporated areas of Cook
County, whereby the County has entered into an intergovernmental agreement to enforce parking
and/or traffic regulations.
(4) Public ways, streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the County located in unincorporated
areas of the County.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 5, Commercial Districts, Section 5.0 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:

5.0. - Purpose
The commercial district regulations are intended to govern the location, intensity and method of
development for business and commercial uses serviRg the eitizens ofwithin Cook County. Regulations
provide for groupings of business and commercial uses that are compatible with the type of commodity
sold, the scope of services provided and the method of operations. All business and commercial uses are
contained in the following eight commercial districts:
C- I Restricted Business District
C-2 Restricted Office District
C-3 General Service District
C-4 General Commercial District
C-5 Commercial Transition District
C-6 Automotive Service District
C-7 Office/Research Park District
C-8 Intensive Commercial District
For purposes of determining the restrictiveness of the eight commercial zoning districts, each of the districts
shall be deemed independently and equally restrictive.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 11, Off-Street Parking and Loading Space, Section
l l .2.6(A)(7) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

11.2. - Off-Street Parking Space
11.2.6. Space requirements. All off-street parking space shall meet the following minimum requirements:
A. Residential uses.

***
7. Senior eitizeR housing. One off-street parking space shall be provided for every three dwelling
units.

***
Page 8of11

 Effective date:

This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 17-1165. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (I)

17-1732
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), LUIS ARROYO JR, JESUS
G. GARCIA, LARRY SUFFREDIN, &00 JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P.
DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, EDWARD M. MOODY. STANLEY MOORE and DEBORAH SIMS,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
HEALTHY WORKFORCE AND HEALTH CARE ACCESS AMENDMENT
WHEREAS, in addition to the various protections offered under the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance ("CCHRO"), the CCHRO also prohibits persons from engaging in unlawful discrimination in
the provision or distribution of any Cook County ("County") facilities, services or programs; and
WHEREAS, the CCHRO defines unlawful discrimination as "discrimination against a person because of
the actual or perceived status, practice, or expression of that person's race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity or house stats; or the actual or perceived association with such a
person~" and

WHEREAS, while the CCHRO currently prohibits discrimination in the provision or distribution of any
County facilities, services or programs based upon national origin and other protected classes, the
provisions of the CCHRO do not specifically cover immigration status or documentation of immigration
status; and
WHEREAS, expansion of the definition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status or documentation of immigrant status in the
application of County services or programs ensures the equal provision of County services; and
WHEREAS, expansion of the definition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status provides further confidence in the County's
provision of health services and is also beneficial to the protection of the public health of all County
residents.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter
42 Human Relations, Section 42-39, of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
Page 9of11

 Sec. 42-39. - County facilities, services aud programs.
(a) Prohibition. No person shall engage in unlawful discrimination in the provision or distribution of
any Cook County ("County") facilities, services, or programs. For purposes of this section, "unlawful
discrimination" shall include immigration status, unless consideration of immigration status is required by
Federal or State law.
(b) Exception. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights ("Commission") as defined in Section
42-34 shall adopt rules specifying any exceptions to the prohibition contained in this section based on bona
fide considerations of public policy.

(c) Sexual harassment.
(!) No person shall engage in sexual harassment in the provision or distribution of any County

facilities, services, or programs.
(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advance,
request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:
a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's use
of County facilities, or the provision of County services or programs;
b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any decision
affecting the provision or allocation of County services or programs, or the use of County
facilities; or
c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's access
to County services, programs, or facilities, or the conduct creates an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive environment for the provision of County services or programs, or in the use of
County facilities.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 17-1732. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (I)

Page 10of11

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Gainer, Boykin, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Sims (l)

Respectfully submitted,

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 11of11

 