STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on October 11, 2012
I.
OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL
II.
PRESENT
Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board;
Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director by telephone; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD September 11, 2012
Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the September 11, 2012 meeting. Member Anderson moved
to approve the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from September 1 through September 30, 2012. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it. Executive Director Mlynski reported that there were
no pending legislative issues. She then presented the fiscal report.
V.
BOARD ACTIONS
1. Case No. L-CB-09-066
Darryl Spratt/ Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241
Chairman Gierut called the case and recused himself. General Counsel Post noted that the Board heard oral
arguments from the parties at the September meeting and held the case so as to further consider and discuss the
presented oral argument. After detailed discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the General Counsel’s
recommendation to reverse the ALJ’s denial of a variance and order the scheduling of a hearing to consider the
complaint and answer. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. L-CA-01-017-C
Local 8A-28A Metal Polishers, Sign and Display, Novelty Workers, Automotive Equipment Painters/
Chicago Transit Authority
Chairman Gierut recused himself. General Counsel Post called the case and asked Counsel Kazanjian to present the
case. Counsel Kazanjian noted that on July 2, 2012, ALJ Hamburg-Gal issued a recommended compliance decision
and order on an unfair labor practice charge filed by the Charging Party against the Respondent. After a review of
the exceptions and responses, Counsel Kazanjian recommended that the ALJ's recommended compliance decision
and order be sustained. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the ALJ’s compliance RDO. Member
Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3. Case No. L-CA-12-055
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/ Chicago Park District
Chairman Gierut called the case and General Counsel Post asked Counsel Kazanjian to present the case. Counsel
Kazanjian stated that on July 17, 2012, an Executive Director’s Deferral to Arbitration issued in which Charging
party alleged that Respondent violated Section 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues
raised by the appeal and response and recommended that the Board reverse the Executive Director’s Deferral and
issue a Complaint for Hearing. After discussion, Member Lewis moved to remand the case for further investigation.
Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.
OTHER BOARD MATTERS
After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary at this time.
VII.
ADJOURNMENT

 Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Lewis made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of November, 2012.

2

 