 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Rules and Administration Committee

Wednesday, November 19, 2014 10:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569

118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman German, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)
Absent: CommissionerGainer (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with Cook
County Code, Sec. 

The Secretary announced that there were no public speakers.

14-6119
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of the
regular meeting held on Wednesday, October 8, 2014.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Journal of
Proceedings be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele(8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer(1)

14-6180

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of the
special meeting held on Thursday, October 9, 2014.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman German, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Journal of
Proceedings be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele(8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer(1)

14-5417
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, EDWIN REYES, JERRY BUTLER, JESUS G. GARCIA, JOAN PATRICIA
MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners

3 10963

AMENDMENT TO THE ETHICS ORDINANCE INTEREST IN COUNTY BUSINESS, CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION, ARTICLE VII, SECTION 2-581 OF THE COOK COUNTY CODE (PROPOSED
SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
Robert B. Steele and Edwin Reyes, County Commissioners; Co-Sponsored by William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler,
Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Deborah Sims, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski,
County Commissioners

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO THE ETHICS ORDINANCE INTEREST IN COUNTY BUSINESS

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article VII
Ethics, Section 2?581 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2-581. Interest in County business.

No elected of?cial or employee shall have a ?nancial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any
other person in any contract, work or business of the County or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense,
price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with funds belonging to or administered by
the County. Compensation for property taken pursuant to the County's eminent domain power shall not constitute
a ?nancial interest within the meaning of this section. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding
following public notice, no elected of?cial or employee shall have a ?nancial interest in the purchase of any

property that:
Belongs to the County;
(2) Is sold for taxes or assessments; or

(3) Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the County.

 No appointed of?cial shall engage in a transaction described in Subsection of this section unless the
matter is wholly unrelated to the appointed of?cial's County duties and responsibilities.

to) Any person who is not a County employee who has a financial interest in his or her own name or in the
name ofany other person in any contract. work or business ofthe County or in the sale ofauy article. whenever the
expense. price or consideration of the contract. work. business or sale is paid with funds belonging to or
administered by the County. shall be ineligible from being hired by the County for employment for a period of
one year from the termination oftheir engagement in the transaction. Compensation for property taken pursuant
to the County?s eminent domain power shall not constitute a ?nancial interest within the meaning of this section.

(ed) For purposes of this section, the term ?financial interest" shall not include the interest of the spouse of
an of?cial or employee which interest is related to the independent occupation, profession or employment of the
spouse.

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect heniedietely?upeH?adepeien on June 1 2011.

 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for receiving and ?ling. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, ritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele(8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer(1)

14-5418
Sponsored by: ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN

310977

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A PROHIBITION ON THE HIRING OF ANY PERSON WHO
RECEIVES PUBLICLY FUNDED PENSION PAYMENTS IN EXCESS OF $39,999 PER YEAR
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Elizabeth ?Liz? Doody Gorrnan,
County Commissioner.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

 

AN AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A PROHIBITION ON THE HIRING
OF ANY PERSON WHO RECEIVES PUBLICLY FUNDED PENSION PAYMENTS
IN EXCESS OF $39,999 PER YEAR

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 44 Human Resources, Section
44-57 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:

Sec. 44-57.Prohibition on employment.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 44-5 3 of the Cook County Code with regards to
?source of income?, no person shall be employed by the County of Cook who is a current retiree of another unit
of government and receiving publicly funded pension payments in excess of $39,999 per year. The provisions of

this section apply to retirees of all of the following governmental agencies:

(1) United States Federal Government;

(2) Any State or territory of the United States;
(3) Any political sub?division of any State or territory of the United States.

For the purposes of the provisions of this section, employment shall not be construed to include
any elected of?cial of Cook County Government.

This Ordinance shall be retroactive to January 1, 2010. Any person falling within the scope of
subsection of this section who was hired as of January 1, 2010 shall be terminated upon passage of this
ordinance.

Effective datezThis Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
be recommended for receiving and ?ling. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer (1)

14-5419
Sponsored by: WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner

310979
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting Proposed Ordinance by William M. Beavers, County Commissioner.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM

BE IT ORDAINED, Pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970
Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners (?County Board?) that
Chapter 44, Human Resources, Article V, Section 44-140 through 44-145 are hereby inserted into a newly
created Article V, entitled the ?Cook County Af?rmative Action Program? and are thereafter amended and
renumbered as follows:

ARTICLE V. COOK COUNTY AFFIRNIATIVE ACTION PROGRAM.
44-140. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the County of Cook (the ?County?) to provide equal employment opportunities to all
quali?ed persons without regard to their race, religion, color, age, disability, sex, national origin, sexual
orientation, marital status, membership in the military reserves, creed, ancestry, arrest or conviction record, or
use or nonuse of lawful products away from work. In adhering to this policy, the County complies with the
Illinois Human Rights Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, and other applicable statutes and regulations relating to equal employment

opportunities. This policy represents the County?s commitment to a nondiscriminatory work environment for all
quali?ed applicants and employees. The County is an employer that values the diversity of its employees and as
such seeks to achieve the goal of hiring and maintaining an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25%
woman and 5% disabled in every County bureau including the following elected of?cials or otherwise (as
hereinafter de?ned): the Assessor, the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the County Clerk, the Board of Review, the
Recorder of Deeds, the Sheriff, the State?s Attorney, the Public Defender, the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System and the Treasurer.

44-141. DEFINITIONS.
In this Article entitled ?Cook County Af?rmative Action Program? 

a. "Affirmative action means, in employment, the screening of position descriptions and selection
criteria to ensure the use of appropriate, job-related requirements; comprehensive and inclusive advertising and
recruiting efforts; special or targeted recruiting in addition to traditional methods; training plans and programs,
including on?the?job training; and gender-neutral and culturally bias-free criteria to be used when making
employment decisions relating to recruitment, hiring, performance evaluation, promotion, transfers, training
opportunities, compensation and other terms and conditions of employment and termination.

b. ?Diversity? means, in addition to differences based on ethnicity, gender, age, religion,

disability, national origin and sexual orientation, an in?nite range of individuals? unique characteristics and
experiences, such as communication styles, career, work, life experience, educational backgrounds and other
variables. Diversity focuses on tapping the talents of people of different backgrounds, experiences and
perspectives as a means of improving the workplace environment and productivity. Diversity awareness works to
create an environment that recognizes values and utilizes the unique skills and abilities of all employees. The
goal of diversity awareness is to create an inclusive, respectful and equitable work environment.

c. ?Equal employment opportunity? means the equal and fair treatment of all quali?ed applicants
and employees with regard to county employment practices, including, but not limited to, recruitment, selection,
hiring, training, promotion, compensation, bene?ts, transfers, discipline, terms and conditions of employment,
and layoffs.

d. ?Elected Officials or Elected Offices means the Assessor, the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the
County Clerk, the Board of Review, the Recorder of Deeds, the Sheriff, the State?s Attorney, the Public
Defender, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System and the Treasurer.

e. ?Minority? means any person who is one of the following:

(1) African-American or Black (persons with origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa);

(2) Hispanic American (persons of Spanish culture with origins from Puerto Rico, Mexico, Cuba, South
or Central America, Spain, Portugal, or the Caribbean Islands regardless of race);

(3) Native American (American Indian);

(4) Asian-Paci?c American (persons with origins from Japan, China, the Philippines, Vietnam, Korea,
Samoa, Guam, the US. Trust Territories of the Paci?c, Northern Marianas, Laos, Cambodia,
Taiwan, or the Indian subcontinent) or

(5) Any other ethnically or racially identi?able group found by the Contract Compliance Administrator
to have suffered actual racial or ethnic discrimination resulting in a competitive disadvantage or
decreased opportunities to do business with the County.

f. ?Disabled? means that same meaning found under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
as amended.

44-142. OFFICE OF DIVERSITY AND OUTREACH OFFICE.

There is established an Office of Diversity and Outreach that shall be budgeted as a department under
the Bureau of Human Resources and shall maintain at least ?ve (5) full time equivalents for the purpose
of promoting the importance, bene?t and necessity of maintaining diversity within the County?s workforce and
ensuring compliance with applicable policies, ordinances, statutes, laws and executive orders. With the express
goal of achieving an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled, this Of?ce shall
have the following authority and duties pertinent thereto, including but not limited to:

a. Reviewing and assisting the development of diversity, equal employment opportunity,
af?rmative action plans of the various County bureaus and Elected Of?cials to ensure that each plan is
consistent with the overall County plan.

b. Maintaining and reporting to the County Board on a quarterly basis statistics, which include, but
are not limited to, the proportion of underrepresented group members at all levels and job classi?cations in the
County?s workforce and the availability of quali?ed underrepresented group members in the labor force of the
relevant labor areas. The statistics shall indicate how each group has been affected by new hires, training
opportunities, promotions, discipline and terminations.

0. Counseling employees, managers and others about diversity, equal employment opportunity and
af?rmative action issues in the workplace.

(1. Facilitating diversity related training programs and workplace mediation.

e. Receiving and investigating complaints of discriminatory employment practices, workplace
violence, or of harassment in the workplace from County employees. If an investigation discloses a violation has
occurred, the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer as de?ned in Section 44-143 of this Ordinance shall work with
bureau chiefs, department heads, managers and Elected Of?cials to implement corrective action and resolve the
situation.

f. Receiving and ?ling investigating complaints with the County?s Inspector General regarding any
employee or applicant who believes that he or she has been discriminated against by the County.

g. Identifying and maintaining comprehensive and effective recruitment methods that promote a
diverse workforce.

h. Monitoring results of all training, with emphasis on minority, female and disabled recruits.

i. Participating in performance examinations, job fairs, and recruitment activities at high schools,
universities, law schools, chambers of commerce and other locations.

j. Reviewing all State of Illinois and federal laws, rules and regulations concerning equal
employment opportunities to ensure compliance.

k. Direct participation in the hiring, termination and promotion of each employee of the County
including employees of each Elected Of?cial to determine whether such hiring, termination or promotion is
promoting this Ordinance?s goal of achieving an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and
5% disabled.

44-143. DIVERSITY AND OUTREACH OFFICER.

The President of the Cook County Board with the advice and consent of a majority of the County Board
shall appoint the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer to a term of six (6) years. The Diversity and Outreach Of?cer
may be removed by a majority vote of the County Board. The Diversity and Outreach Of?cer shall manage the
day-to-day operations of the Of?ce of Diversity and Outreach; perform complaint intake functions; investigate
complaints; serve as the County?s Americans with Disabilities Act coordinator; directly participate in the hiring,
termination and promotion of each employee of the County including employees of each Elected Of?cial; ensure
compliance with applicable ordinances, statutes, laws and executive orders; have responsibility and authority for
the development and implementation of a comprehensive diversity, equal employment opportunity and
af?rmative action plan for the County; and function as the liaison between the County and the media and the
community.

44-144. DEPARTMENT DIVERSITY, EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLANS.

Beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Ordinance, each County bureau and each
Elected Of?cial shall submit and present to the County Board and the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer its present
racial, gender and disabled employment make?up and its diversity, equal employment opportunity and
af?rmative action plan to achieve in their bureau or elected of?ces a workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman
and 5% disabled. Thereafter, each County bureau and each Elected Of?cial shall submit and present every year
to the County Board and the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer its racial, gender and disabled make-up for that
?scal year and its diversity, equal employment opportunity and af?rmative action plan to achieve in their bureau
or Elected Of?ces a workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled.

44-145. IMPLEMENTATION.

a. Recruitment. In collaboration with the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer, the Director of Human
Resources and all Elected Of?cials shall practice comprehensive and inclusive advertising and recruiting efforts,
which may include special recruiting targeting previously underrepresented groups in addition to traditional
recruiting methods, and report such recruitment ?ndings to the County Board every year.

b. Training. In collaboration with the Diversity and Outreach Of?cer, the Director of Human
Resources and all Elected Of?cials shall develop training plans and programs, including on-the-job training,
designed to develop the knowledge, skills and abilities essential for developing each employee?s fullest
potential. The Diversity and Outreach Of?cer shall develop and provide relevant training to each County bureau
and Elected Of?cials to increase employees? knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, as well as the
County?s policies relating to diversity, equal employment opportunity, af?rmative action and respecting
diversity in the workplace. The Director of Human Resources and each Elected Of?cial shall report their
training ?ndings to the County Board each year.

c. esting, Selection, Placement and Promotion. The Diversity and Outreach Of?cer shall review
the County testing, selection, placement and promotion polices of each bureau and each Elected Of?cial to
ensure that they comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to the goal achieving a workforce
consisting of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman German, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance
be recommended for receiving and ?ling. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer (1)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent: Commissioner Gainer (1)

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File Id Number 14-6119 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-6180 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-5417 Recommended for Receiving and Filing
File Id Number 14-5418 Recommended for Receiving and Filing
File Id Number 14-5419 Recommended for Receiving and Filing

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman ?f I 

 

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

