 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Zoning and Building Committee

Wednesday, October 23, 2013 10:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman,

Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore (16)

Absent: Fritchey (1)

Also Present: Sapho E. A. Sukru Erel, Assistant Secretary; Timothy P. Bleuher, Commissioner of Building and
Zoning

SPECIAL USE

13-1730
Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals

Communication #322580

Docket #8896 - ROGELIO DORIA, Owner, 
[Application (No. 213021). Submitted by Anthony J. Peraica Associates, Ltd. Seeking a
SPECIAL USE, UNIQUE USE in the R6 Single Family Residence District to continue to use a single family
home as a multi-family dwelling with three (3) apartments was amended as described herein from a prior
application to two (2) Property consists of approximately 0.33
0.303 of an acre located at 2039 North Kirschoff Street on the East side ofKirchoffAvenue approximately

?00 ?1 feet of Armitage Avenue in Section 33 in Leyden Township, County
Board District #16. Intended use: Multi-family residence with three (3) apartments from the prior application to

two apartments.

 

Recommendation: Recommendation of Approval, as Amended.

Conditions: None

Objectors: Gregory Ignoffo, Administrator, Leyden Township; Louise Pennington, the City ofNorthlake,
Leyden High Schools District #212; Jeffrey Sherwin, Mayor, City ofNorthlake; Commissioner
Jeffrey R. Tobolski; Marilynn J. May, President, Village of River Grove; Tommy Thompson,
Clerk, Franklin Park Village.

*Referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals on 3/11/13
?Deferred to the October 2, 2013 Zoning Board of Appeals.
to the October 23, 2013 Zoning Board of Appeals.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Zoning
Board of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval The motion carried by the
following vote:

Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin,
Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Moore(l4)
Nay: German and Tobolski(2)
Absent: Fritchey(1)
VARIATIONS

13-1884

Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals

RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Request: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) reduce the lot area from the minimum 20,000 square feet to an
existing 10,150 square feet; (2) to reduce lot width from the minimum required 100? to an existing 72.74; (3)

reduce the right corner side yard setback from the minimum required 25? to an existing 8? for an after the fact
detached garage.

Township: Lemont

County District: 17

Zoning Number: 213035

Docket Number: 8907

Property Address: 163 74 New Avenue, Lemont, 

Property Description: Subject Property consists of 0.25 acres located on the Northeast corner ofNew Avenue
and Perpetual Road in Section 30 of Lemont Township.

Owner: Timothy Hussey
Applicant: John F. Benware, JR. AIA

Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District

Intended use: For an after the fact detached garage
Recommendation: ZBA recommends that the Application be granted

Conditions: None

Objectors: None

History:

County Board Referral: 
Zoning Board Hearing: 09/25/2013

Zoning Board Recommendation date: 09/25/2013
County Board extension granted: 

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Zoning
Board of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the

following vote:
Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(16)

Absent: Fritchey( 1)

13-1885

Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Request: Applicant seeks a variance to increase the height of a fence in the front yard from the maximum
allowed 3? to a proposed 

Township: Elk Grove

County District: 15

Zoning Number: Z13036

Docket Number: Docket Number 8909

Property Address: 302 Forest View, Elk Grove Village, Illinois

Property Description: The Subject Property consists of 0.46 acres located on the Southwest corner of
Landmeier Road and Forest View Avenue in Section 28 ofElk Grove Township.

Owner: Steven Prorak

Applicant: Steven Prorak

Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District

Intended use: Variance is sought to replace an already existing 6 foot fence

Recommendation: ZBA recommends that the application be granted.

Conditions: None

Objectors: None

History:

County Board Referral: 

Zoning Board Hearing: 09/25/2013

Zoning Board Recommendation date: 09/25/2013
County Board extension granted: 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, that this ZoningBoard
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried. by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(l 6)

Absent: Fritchey( 1)

1 3- 1 886
Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals

RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Request: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) house birds (pigeons) from maximum allowed 3 to 5?10 and (2)
reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum required 10? to an existing 

Township: Norwood Park
County District: 9
Zoning Number: Z13060
Docket Number: 8931

Property Address: 7914 W. Catherine Avenue, Norwood Park, Illinois

PrOperty Description: The Subject Property consists of 0.21 acre located on the North side of Catherine
Avenue approximately 159.69? West of Canfield Road in Section 12 ofNorwood Park Township

Owner: Emil Sroka
Applicant: Emil Sroka

Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District

Intended use: Variance is sought to bring an existing shed into compliance and to house additional pigeons
Recommendation: ZBA recommendation that the application be granted

Conditions: None

Objectors: None

History:

County Board Referral: 
Zoning Board Hearing: 09/25/2013

Zoning Board Recommendation date: 09/25/2013
County Board extension granted: 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this ZoningBoard
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by thefollowing vote:

Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(16)

Absent: Fritchey(1)
13?1887
Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum required
15? to an existing 10.03?, (2) reduce the lot width from the minimum required 150? to an existing 100? and (3) to
reduce the lot area from the minimum required 40,000 to an existing 20,000.
Township: Bremen
County District: 6
Zoning Number: Z13062
Docket Number: 8933

Property Address: 5639 W. 17lst Place, Tinley Park, Illinois

Property Description: The Subject Property consists of acre located on the South side of17lst Place
approximately 300? East of Parkside Avenue in Section 29 of Bremen Township

Owner: Steven Barry
Applicant: Steven Barry
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District

Intended use: Variance is sought to reconstruct a detached garage.
Recommendation: ZBA recommends for the application to be granted.

Conditions: None
Objectors: None

History:
County Board Referral: 

Zoning Board Hearing: 09/25/2013
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 09/25/2013
County Board extension granted: 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this Zoning
Board of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by thefollowing
vote:

Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(16)

Absent: Fritchey(1)
13-1888
Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Applicant seeks a variance to (1) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 10? to an existing 08? and (2) reduce the distance between principal and accessory structures from the
minimum required 10? to an existing 0 feet.
Township: Orland
County District: 17
Zoning Number: Z13063
Docket Number: 8934

Property Address: 11712 Kristoffer Lane, Orland Park, Illinois.

Property Description: The Subject Property consists of 0.24 of an acre located on the North side of Kristoffer
Lane approximately 196.44? North of McCabe Drive in Section 6 of Orland Township

Owner: Dawn 
Applicant: Michael Perovanovic
Current Zoning: R-S Single Family Residence District

Intended use: Variance is sought to bring a shed and detached garage into compliance.

Recommendation: ZBA Recommends that the application be denied.
Conditions: None

Objectors: lean Lewicki- Neighbor

History:

County Board Referral: 
Zoning Board Hearing: 09/25/2013

Zoning Board Recommendation date: 09/25/2013
County Board extension granted: 

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that this ZoningBoard
of Appeals Recommendation be recommended for approval. The motion carried by thefollowing vote:
Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,

Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(l6)

Absent: Fritchey( 1)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

13-1723
Presented by: ANDREW Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE - PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Appendix A, Zoning, Article 7, Public and
Open Land Districts, Section 7.1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

7.1. - P-l Public Land District.

Description ofdz'strz'ct. The P-l Public Land District is intended to provide for publicly
owned land. Some public land, however, may not be zoned P?l depending on the use. No privately
owned property or structures are allowed in the P-l Public Land District.

7.1.2. Use, lot and bulk regulations. The applicable use, lot and bulk regulations are set forth in
Sections 7.1.3 through 7.1.9.

7.1.3. Permitted uses. A permitted use of land or buildings shall be allowed in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance. Unless Otherwise specifically set forth, wherever a permitted use is
named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated uses. Unless otherwise
specifically allowed by this ordinance, no building or zoning lot shall be devoted to any use other than a
permitted use, and no structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or occupied, except as a permitted use.
Uses lawfully established on the effective date of this ordinance, and rendered nonconforming by it,
shall be Subject to Article 10.

The following uses are permitted in the P-l District:

A. Educational institutions.
1. Public colleges and universities, boarding and nonboarding.
2. Public elementary schools, boarding and nonboarding.
3. Public hiin schools, boarding and nonboarding.

B. Recreation and social facilities.

1.

Public conservatories and greenhouses.

2. Public golfcourses.

3.

Public park, and playgrounds.

4. Public community center buildings, Clubhouses, recreation buildings, swimming pools

and buildings for indoor pools, tennis courts and buildings for indoor tennis courts,

noncommercial and not-for-profit.

C. Public and governmental land and buildings.

1.
. Art galleries.



Aquariums.

. Fire stations.

. Forest Preserves

. Historical buildings and landmarks preserved for the public.
. Police stations.

. Post offices.

. Public libraries.

. Public museums.

0. Public of?ce buildings.

7.1.4. Special uses. A special use may be allowed subject to issuance ofa special use permit in

accordance with the provisions of Article 13. Unless otherwise speci?cally set forth, wherever a special

use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include only those enumerated uses.

The following special uses may be permitted in the P-l District:

A. Recreation and social facilities.

1.

Public athletic fields and stadiums.

B. Public and governmental land and buildings.

1.
. Animal shelters and pounds.



Airports and heliports.

. Convention halls and centers.

. Hospitals.

. Institutions for the care or treatment ofmental illness, drug or alcohol addiction.
. Landfills, sanitary or solid waste.

. Highway maintenance facilities or storage yards.

. Prisons and correctional facilities.

9.

Radar installations and towers.

10. Waste transfer facilities.

1 l. Transitional residences.

12. Sewage treatment plants.
13. Water towers.

l4. ?eutl+e?amps

lS. Zoos.

C. Miscellaneous.
1. Publicly owned property and structures used for public purposes.

7.1.5. Temporary uses. The P?l Public Land District does not allow temporary uses.

7.1.6. Accessory uses. A use, building or other structure customarily incidental to and commonly
associated with a principal, permitted or special use may be allowed as an accessory use provided it is
operated and maintained under the same ownership or an agent thereof and on the same lot as the
permitted use. Accessory uses shall not include structures or features inconsistent with the permitted use
or involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry.

Accessory uses may include the following and similar uses:

A. Athletic fields and stadiums accessory to educational institutions.

B. Commercial sale of food, supplies or nonalcohol beverages incidental to public structures or

facilities or rental ofeguipment incidental to such structures or facilities.

 

 

Fallout shelters as regulated by this ordinance.
Gardens.

Public garages and parking lots.

Signs as regulated by Article 12.

Vending machines.

seamen

Water retention and detention areas.



Effective Date: This amended ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this

Ordinance Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by thefollowing vote:

Aye: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin, Tobolski and Moore(l6)

Absent: Fritchey(1)

ADJOURNMENT

Vice Chairman Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
passed and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 13-1730 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1884 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1885 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1886 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1887 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13?1888 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13?1723 Recommended for Approval

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Zoning and Building

i;ctei%. ilvi esiri, Chai%? ?57" a I .

Attest:

6 

B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on the Video Page at


