 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Friday, November 8, 2013 9:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting ofthe Committee or Subcommittee ofthe Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public Speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the
meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing
the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to
adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from
providing future testimony.

13?1589

Sponsored by: TONI President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Roselyne Navarro to the Central Stickney Sanitary District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Ms. Navarro will replace Fortino Carillo, who is currently
serving on an expired term.

1 submit this communication for your approval.

Legislative History: Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee on 9/ 1 1/ 13. Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee recommended for deferral
on 10/02/13.

13-1985

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Appointee: Barrett Pedersen

Position: Member

Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals
Effective date: Immediate

Expiration date: October 17, 2018

Legislative History: Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations

Committee on 10/23/13.

retary

Chairman: Suffredin
Vice Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

