October 21, 2013

The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
The Honorable John P. Daly, Chairman, Finance Committee
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Dear Members of the Finance Committee:
I appreciate the opportunity to update you on our good stewardship of public dollars in this budget
cycle, some of our challenges and plans for the future.

Much thanks to all of you for allowing me to realign our FY 2013 budget during the first 30 days of
my administration to accommodate my priorities for the office. In essence, this budget we
operated under for all practical purposes is my budget.
Our vision for the Recorder of Deeds Office, can be summed up in three words: Accuracy,
Efficiency and Advocacy.





As keepers of the public land record, our foremost statutory duty is to ensure that what is
presented to us is accurately recorded and indexed in a way that improves and supports the
housing market.
As a government office responsible to taxpayers, it is also important that we do so as
efficiently as possible, using only the resources needed to get the job done.
As you probably know, I actively advocated taxpayer needs before the General Assembly in
Springfield, and was able to pass 3 laws that will allow us to assist victims of recording fraud
and punish fraudsters.

Upon taking office, it was clear that the first step was to do a broad assessment of an office that
was in great need of a hands-on administrator.
Top staff was directed to coordinate in-depth analyses of our operations, including our workflows
and space-utilization, hardware and software needs, and our financial controls. These efforts were
needed to help prioritize our requests for capital improvements and system upgrades,
improvements that will allow us to meet our goals of Accuracy, Efficiency and Advocacy. I’m
grateful to County staff, especially BOT and Facilities Management, for helping us get closer to our
goals.
In addition to some easy fixes like enhanced lighting in public areas and organizing workspaces to
convey an attention to detail that people expect from our office, we have been working to provide
services with fewer employees through attrition. We even increased our revenue by discovering a
cashiering error that existed prior to our arrival that was preventing us from collecting the full
amount of fees that are required.

 Cook County Recorder of Deeds Budget Presentation
to the Finance Committee

2

I want you to know that this is an Administration willing and able to look high and low for ways to
improve the taxpayers’ office. We are proud to be one of the largest revenue generators for the
County, with one of the smallest staffs.
OUR BUDGET REQUEST
Our FY 2014 Budget request is less than the current budget. Additionally, we are experiencing an
increase in revenue. To be specific, our FY 2013 revenue projection was $33 million, yet we
anticipate collecting around $40 million by year end. Trends in the housing market suggest an
ongoing recovery, indicating even more revenue for next year.
This 2014 Budget Request reflects our desire to be a part of a Countywide effort to improve
finances.
To ensure that our actions match our words, consider these 5 items:
1. Our Corporate Operating Budget request is slightly less than we asked for last year.
2. In response to President Preckwinkle’s request: 20% of our vacant positions were cut.
3. We advocated receiving a $1.3 million settlement from a “robo-signing” lawsuit won by
Attorney General Madigan, money that will be used to help assess and repair the damage to
the public record.
4. We turned over $1.1 million from our Torrens Fund to the County, with the hope that we
can use it down the road to relocate our Torrens records.
5. Though we may have been able to make the case for a truly flat budget, coming in below
“flat” shows that we are proceeding with integrity, facts, and respect for the process, and
for the tough task you have before you.
OUR PLANS FOR NEXT YEAR
Now that we’ve talked about what we’ve done this year and how our Budget Request reflects our
values, I want to update you on some of our bigger plans for 2014.








Revenue: We plan to seek a change in state law to allow land conveyance documents to be
electronically recorded, (otherwise known as E-Recording) which will be a revenue boost to
the County and efficiency for our customers.
System Upgrade: Our recording software system, which we call our “core application,” has
not been updated in over 10 years. As a result of many hodgepodge modifications over the
years, the database is essentially unusable as far as offering us metrics we can track to
better promote revenue-generating products. The time is now to undertake this costly, but
necessary, modernization.
Digitization: As each year passes, more public records are at risk of deteriorating to the
point of non-usability. We plan to undertake a push to digitize our records (such as
microfilm and Photostat) from 1970 back to 1871, a move that will not only protect the
public record, but allow us to free up physical space in our Chicago Location.
Workflow: Based on our Workflow Audit, we will be aggressively implementing changes in
the way we perform our daily operations. This will eliminate redundancies, unneeded paper
and supplies, and free up staff to focus on our core operations and bringing the 2 largest
Recorder’s Office into the 21 Century.
nd

st

 Cook County Recorder of Deeds Budget Presentation
to the Finance Committee

3

CHALLENGES
Life would be perfect if there were no challenges; but I look at our challenges as temporary setbacks and opportunities to do a public good the right way.


Our greatest asset at CCRD is our Human Resources. We’re lucky to have four generations of
institutional knowledge in our workforce. Some lack technology skills needed to do 21st
Century work therefore, a Training Room was instituted replete with staff, computers and
valuable programs to enhance skill sets. This enhancement has been well-received.



The Concourse level of the 118 N Clark Building where extremely fragile documents are
stored has a very serious flooding problem. Flooding is taking place in areas that are
occupied by our staff and are open to the public. We are working with Facilities and Capital
Planning to seek solutions in this area.



As you all are aware, I inherited a Federal Monitor in light of previous Unlawful Political
Discrimination related issues at CCRD. Much time has been spent in training staff,
monitoring actions etc. in the past several months to try to change a culture that has
flourished for decades. My staff and I are committed to attaining substantial compliance as
soon as humanly possible. At our very first meeting with the States Attorney and Monitor,
we were advised that to reach substantial compliance we would have to hire a part-time
Director of Compliance; later we were told this hire was expected to be a full-time position.
This impacted our budget. We are now in the process of interviewing and identifying a
Director of Compliance, and should have one in place in the next few weeks. This is needed
for substantial compliance.



In that same area, we were also advised that an Employment Plan was in the works and
ready to be implemented back in December of 2012. However, after many, many hurdles, it
was finally completed in August, 2013. This is also needed for substantial compliance.

CONCLUSION
Again, our mission is Accuracy, Efficiency and Advocacy, and this Budget Request is our blueprint.
This request represents an honest effort to be a part of a larger, Countywide effort of fiscal
responsibility.
I invite you all to visit our new website, CookRecorder.com: sign up for our Property Fraud Alert
Program, and those of you who are Veterans, record your DD214’s for safe-keeping. I invite each of
you to personally visit me at my Office so that I can show you how we are putting our mission into
action.
Sincerely,

Karen A Yarbrough
Cook County Recorder of Deeds

 