JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY
OCTOBER 10, 2013
(11:00 A.M. Special Meeting)

TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT
JERRY BUTLER
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
JOHN A. FRITCHEY
BRIDGET GAINER
JESUS G. GARCIA
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN
STANLEY MOORE

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
EDWIN REYES
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR OCTOBER 10, 2013

Call of the Meeting ...................................................................................................................................... 1
Call to Order ............................................................................................................................................... 3
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
PRESIDENT
FY2014 Budget Message of the President to the Board of Commissioners............................................... 3
Referral of FY2014 Budget to Finance Committee ................................................................................... 9
COMMISSIONERS
Reports of Committees
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations – October 10, 2013 ............................................................. 9
Adjournment ............................................................................................................................................. 12

i

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY
Meeting of Thursday, October 10, 2013
11:00 A.M.
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING
_________________________
Board met pursuant to the following call:
Monday, October 7, 2013
The Honorable David Orr
Cook County Clerk
69 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Dear Clerk Orr:
Pursuant to the authority vested in me, I hereby call a Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County to be convened on Thursday, October 10, 2013 at the hour of 11:00 A.M. in the County
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois. At said meeting,
the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2014 will be presented to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. In addition to the Executive Budget recommendation, the Committee Report from the
October 10, 2013 Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee will be considered.
Very truly yours,
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

1

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
Ladies and Gentlemen:
October 7, 2012
Cook County Elected Officials
Department Heads and Financial Officers
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, October 10, 2013 at the
hour of 11:00 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois. At said meeting, the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2014 will be presented to the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. In addition to the Executive Budget recommendation, the
Committee Report from the October 10, 2013 Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
will be considered.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
This is to certify that a copy of the above notice was hand delivered and personally addressed to each
Member of the Board of Cook County Commissioners at their home address and was deposited in the
United States Mail on Monday, October 7, 2012.
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times Newspaper on Tuesday, October 8,
2013.
LEGAL NOTICE
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, October 10, 2013 at the
hour of 11:00 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois. At said meeting, the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2014 will be presented to the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. In addition to the Executive Budget recommendation, the
Committee Report from the October 10, 2013 Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
will be considered.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, County Clerk and
Clerk of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois

2

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 11:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ROLL CALL
Present:

President Preckwinkle and Commissioners Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Moore, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin - 14.

Absent:

Commissioners Collins, Goslin and Tobolski - 3.

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
PRESIDENT
BUDGET MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
to the
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2014

I am here today to present my FY2014 Budget to the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
When I gave my first budget address three years ago, I had been in office for a grand total of 57 days. No
one can prepare you to walk in the door – in the first quarter of the fiscal year, no less – and be
immediately presented with nearly half a billion dollar deficit and no plan to solve it. In fact, no one did
prepare us.
This year, we started with a deficit of $152 million, which is $335 million less than the one I faced
coming into office. This year’s deficit is due largely to the final impact of the sales tax roll back and
increased expenses, including mandated public safety hiring.
A quick note on the increased expenses – this includes about $10 million in costs associated with the
Raise the Age legislation that goes into effect January 1. I supported this legislation because, quite
simply, it’s the right thing to do and I will gladly bear on those costs. What it means is that 17 year olds
will be served in our juvenile justice system rather than our adult courts.
After three years of difficult budgets and tough choices, today, I can present a budget without ANY new
taxes, new fees or new fines.

3

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
We have worked hard; we have lived within our means. We kept our promises.
My first campaign promise was to eliminate the 1% sales tax increase. Having the highest sales taxes in
the country was detrimental to our working families and our businesses. But just because I knew it was
the right thing to do, doesn’t mean it was easy. It meant losing a valuable source of revenue in tough
economic times. But we kept our promise and, as a result, we have saved County residents $1.1 billion.
All of this is a powerful indication of how hard we’ve worked and how far we’ve come in just three years.
Three years ago, I asked you to join me in accepting responsibility for our County.
I spoke to you about the challenges we faced and our commitment to take them on.
And in that time, we have cut $430 million in expenditures. We have passed three budgets and reformed
how we engage each other and the public in this process. We have demanded more accountability from
our operations and our employees. We developed a robust policy agenda – focusing on critical public
safety reform, working to strengthen our health care system and increasing the capacity and capability of
our economic development efforts.
The budget I present today is the product of three years of work that we have done together. It is a budget
that shows our commitment to building the County government that our residents deserve.
That isn’t to say that this year was without its challenges. Our four tenets remain, with fiscal
responsibility still firmly on top. Government can’t continue to turn to residents and say “If only I had
more money, more money, more money…”. At some point, we have to do better with the resources we
have.
We’ve thought about how to bring new revenues and resources to the County. We have increased revenue
by investing in our enforcement and audit efforts. For example, within the Department of Revenue, we
have added 19 additional inspectors and auditors since taking office. As a result, we have nearly tripled
the number of cigarette tax inspections and nearly doubled the number of confiscations. Next year, we
look to bring in $134 million in cigarette tax revenues alone.
In short, rather than propose new taxes, we are fully enforcing and collecting on those already in place.
As a result, revenues are estimated to increase $16.5 million, largely due to increased enforcement efforts.
We have also worked to secure more federal resources. This year, grant funding went up 21%, including
grant funding for the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management and funding for the
Land Bank Authority created earlier this year.
And we have continued to work to close loopholes and unfair exemptions. Most notably, this year, I have
proposed that we end the practice that allows employees and officials who receive less than full-time
County pay to pick up the full share of their health benefits from the County. Currently there are about
400 employees taking advantage of this policy. The majority of these employees are judges, who receive
their salary from the State of Illinois but secure discounted health benefits based on the $500 stipend they
receive annually from the County.
There is absolutely no reason that clerk in the courtroom making $50,000 should pay 100 times more for
health benefits than the judge he or she works for. This is about what’s fair for Cook County workers and
taxpayers.

4

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
Now my Budget Director Andrea Gibson would argue that a responsible budget depends on more than
good ideas – it must start with a responsible budget process. So four months after that initial February
2011 3 AM budget vote, I issued an Executive Order to ensure that would never happen again. We laid
out the steps and requirements for a budget process that would be transparent and accountable – to our
legislative body, to our other County-wide elected officials, and, most importantly, to our residents.
We put the responsibility on ourselves to release a preliminary budget each year by June 30. It is at this
point that County elected officials and departments review their budgets and submit requests for next
year’s appropriation.
Historically, these requests have been prepared in isolation – an agency submitting requests with little if
any input and conversation with President’s Office and the President’s Office doing little to understand
the requests.
But a $3 billion budget shouldn’t be treated as a back-room barter; conversations shouldn’t be focused on
hedging your bets and playing the odds but coming together to discuss shared priorities, critical
operations and creative solutions.
And it with this understanding that everybody is coming to the table with more informed, more realistic
requests, backed by with sound analysis and justification.
As a result, we have seen the additional requests from elected officials decrease significantly, from $155
million two years ago to $42 million this year. Treasurer Pappas even took this further and reduced her
reliance on the general fund budget by over nearly $2 million by reducing her headcount and maximizing
the use of other resources.
Every year, I talk about the critical role that performance management plays in our budget process. And
obviously, this year is no exception.
Our performance management initiative has continued to expand and evolve. This is in no small part due
to our Chief Performance Officer – Andrew Schwarm, whose commitment and dedication has driven this
effort from the beginning. But, as he himself would say, he can’t do it alone. Neither can I. The success of
this initiative is dependent on having all our leadership invested and engaged. This isn’t just my initiative
– it is our shared commitment.
From the beginning, we worked with our senior leadership to set tough, County-wide goals by which we
would hold ourselves accountable. And together, we have shaped a new kind of government. A
government that is more effective, more efficient – that asks “How can we do better?”.
Performance management allows us not only to better understand and work with the other separately
elected officials, but to assess and evaluate our own operations. For a long time, for too long, the County
didn’t know how significant parts of its operation actually worked. By bringing everyone together, we
have been able to change and improve government operations. For example, it is through performance
management that we have reduced the time it takes to pay vendors and decreased the wait times in our
General Medicine Clinic.
And it is by holding ourselves more accountable, that we have become better partners. For decades the
city and county shared a building but rarely shared ideas or resources. Shortly after both Mayor Emanuel
and I took office, we sat down and decided to work together. We appointed an eight-person task force
and, in June 2011, they issued a report outlining recommendations for areas of collaboration. But we were
committed to this collaboration being real, not being just a paper document. And it is because of this
commitment that we have, to date, over $70 million in savings and additional revenue. For example, both

5

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
governments collect cigarette taxes. Now, both city and county inspectors are issuing citations on each
other’s behalf when they are in the field, resulting in more than $13.9 million in increased revenue
collections. This partnership has become a part of our day-to-day operations, including sharing
equipment, buying goods and applying for grants.
We have made some good progress getting our financial house in order, but now we need to do more. We
have to utilize our capital funds to make strategic investments in the long-term health of our County.
And that is why today, I am proposing over $40 million in technology investments across the County.
Now, as most of you know – this is not an area in which I will call myself an expert. But even I knew,
when I first came to the County, that we were technology challenged.
Our technology infrastructure was woefully outdated and rather than invest in updating it, we were
spending a considerable amount of money just to keep it running. Departments and agencies that worked
together were operating on separate systems. Too many operations remained paper-based, cumbersome
and time-consuming.
So over the last few years, we have worked to change that. We started by recruiting smart and talented
people to help get it done.
We brought people from the private and public sectors to innovate and apply the best technology to help
us make the County operations run better.
And we’ve done it by focusing on two key areas.
First, we’ve identified new ways to reduce waste and save taxpayers’ money. For example, just by
recalling unused pagers and fax machines, we’ve saved over $200,000 a year.
But to be clear, this isn’t just about finding savings, it’s about thinking strategically about how we invest
our resources. We have partnered with the City to jointly host our email. In turn, we have saved more than
quarter a million dollars.
By connecting the Cook County Hospital to the County’s broadband internet network last year, we not
only delivered new internet connections that were 10 times faster than before, we were able to cut a
contract with an outside internet vendor which will save the County more than half a million over the next
10 years. This year, we will make an identical broadband investment to the County’s facilities at 26th and
California and we will see a similar increase in internet speed and cost reduction to the County’s budget
going forward.
Taxpayers deserve the biggest bang for their buck, especially at a time when everyone is being asked to
do more with less.
Second, we evaluated our outdated systems and invested in modernizing and streamlining our operations.
Just as any physical asset, such as a bridge or a road, requires regular maintenance, so does our
technology infrastructure.
We are rebuilding the County’s outdated financial system. This is the system that tracks every check we
cut. It tracks all of our staff and the benefits employees receive. To get idea of the scope of that task,
consider this: the County has over 23,000 employees and spent $1.1 billion in goods and services last
year. The risks of this system failing are huge.

6

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
At the same time, we are investing in developing a countywide automated time and attendance system in
order to hold all our employees accountable for putting in a day’s work for a day’s pay.
Next year there will also be significant improvements in the transparency, efficiency and accessibility of
our property tax system
I am grateful to the property tax stakeholders - the Assessor, Board of Review, County Clerk, and
Treasurer’s Office – who all came together to ensure that the tax bills have been mailed out on time – for
the first time in over 30 years. And we’ve already done it twice! This is even more impressive given the
age and state of the property tax system that the offices used to produce the bill. And it is because I am
committed to mailing the property tax bills out on time every year – that we are making an investment in
2014 to procure a new system.
And finally, I’ve spoken at great length over the last three years about my goals to improve the operation
of our criminal justice system. We know that means all our stakeholders must be able to communicate and
collaborate effectively. However, we are collectively faced with the problems of inconsistent data
collection, outdated data storage systems and the failure of most of the individual systems to
communicate with each other. That is why, this year, we are investing $1.5 million on a data-sharing tool
that will allow all our public safety stakeholders to access and share information.
It makes sense for us to be able to redesign our government so that it can deliver on the functions that our
residents are looking for. We should all want a government that’s smarter, quicker, and more responsive.
Now, the good news is that County government is full of talented, dedicated public servants who are
working hard every day. But this strategy cannot work unless we also invest in our employees; unless we
give them the training and skills to ensure we all succeed. That is why this year, I am doubling the
funding for training and professional development within the Bureau of Technology.
But, above all, this budget is a reflection of our commitment to our health care system.
At the time of the last budget, I spoke about the hard work that went into securing the 1115 Waiver from
the federal government, granting us the ability to early enroll patients who will be eligible for health care
under Affordable Care Act.
If you look at the history of this country, you will see that over the last century, many presidents have
tried to reform health care: Roosevelt, Truman, Nixon, Carter, Clinton. Every time, special interests and
naysayers were powerful enough to defeat them. Obviously the Affordable Care Act has experienced its
share of challengers. The House Republicans have voted 42 times to repeal or undermine the ACA.
But where others tried, President Obama succeeded.
The ACA has had a huge impact in Cook County. We have a health care system that proudly takes
anyone who comes to us, regardless of insurance, income or immigration status. What this means is that
we spend roughly $500 million a year in uncompensated care, or charity care.
Last year, we set a goal to initiate 115,000 applications for CountyCare by the end of the year. I am proud
to say that we are well on our way to exceeding that goal. To date, we have already initiated 110,000
applications.
And all of this has a huge impact on the financial health of our system. Medicaid expansion will help pay
for $278 million of the uncompensated care we provide. This revenue, in turn, is helping the health

7

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
system become more financially sustainable. This year, 64% of our deficit was solved by health care
system payment reimbursements. And, in turn, the healthcare system has continued to be less and less
reliant on the County subsidy. This year, it is less than half of what it was three years ago.
As Dr. Raju would say, our task is to shape a system of health care, not sick care; centered on the patient,
not the doctor. We are building a system focused on preventive care - to ensure our patients - many for
the first time, with a primary care doctor responsible for their wellness.
Dr. Raju grounds his plan on the provision of a “medical home” and that’s the perfect term – because we
provide more than health care, we provide the dignity that comes with knowing you are entitled to that
care.
And today, thousands of individuals throughout the County have access to health care.
The middle aged woman with a family history of breast cancer who was able to relax after her
mammogram through CountyCare was negative.
The 24 year old, unemployed college graduate who cut his finger, landed in the Emergency Room and,
after routine lab work, was diagnosed with Diabetes. Because of CountyCare, he is now seeing a primary
care doctor at a Federally Qualified Health Center in his neighborhood and is able to pick up his meds at
the local pharmacy.
The woman who, after years of walking around in extreme pain, enrolled in CountyCare and is now
receiving a hip replacement.
These are real stories and there are countless others throughout the county. This is why we worked so
hard to get the waiver, why we worked so hard to sign people up for CountyCare, why we remain
committed to the sustainability of our health care system.
In conclusion, I will say: I’ve always believed that government at every level has two basic obligations –
to provide good services and to do so as effectively and efficiently as possible.
Each year, we re-evaluate what that means – setting higher goals, demanding more from ourselves.
We should all take pride in how far we’ve come. We have moved from measuring ourselves against the
past to setting goals for our future.
We have forged an identity. We are a Cook County that works for the most vulnerable among us. We
sought to be one of the few to early enroll patients under the Affordable Care Act. That is what our health
care system and, more importantly, our residents needed. We continue to work to ensure fairness and
equity for all those who come in contact with our criminal justice system.
We are committed to serving all our residents as effectively and efficiently as possible. We have created
and invested in new tools to ensure that we hold ourselves accountable to our residents.
This plan presented today is not only a balanced budget, it is investment in the long-term health and
stability of our government.
Thank you for all your help and support
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President

8

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012

* * * * *
The Message of the President to the Board of Cook County Commissioners was given by President
Preckwinkle.
* * * * *
President Preckwinkle then submitted the Executive Budget to the Board of Commissioners for the Fiscal
Year 2014, for referral to the Committee on Finance.
_________________________
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the President’s Executive Budget
be referred to the Committee on Finance. The motion carried unanimously.

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION
AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
Thursday, October 10, 2013
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Gorman,
Moore, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (11).

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Steele and Tobolski (6).

SECTION 1
13-1521
Sponsored by: GREGG GOSLIN, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTS RESIGNATION OF SUBURBAN COOK COUNTY METRA DIRECTORS
WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Rail Board or METRA is tasked with running one of the largest
metropolitan rail systems in the country; and
WHEREAS, it is imperative that the METRA Board of Directors have the confidence of the public they
serve to oversee the Chicago region’s commuter rail service; and
WHEREAS, there are a number of serious problems regarding the board’s mishandling of important
issues such as illicit influence and questionable contracts that undermines public confidence in the
organization; and

9

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
WHEREAS, a recent preliminary audit conducted by the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) into
the Alex Clifford separation agreement states the “process was inadequate and not sufficiently
documented” and the “settlement was not financially prudent”; and
WHEREAS, METRA Board Directors failed to consider Employment Practices Liability insurance on
any potential litigation or settlement, which would have provided coverage if a lawsuit was filed by Mr.
Alex Clifford; and
WHEREAS, the continued lack of proper oversight by the METRA Board of Directors has cost the
taxpayers and ridership significant dollars and resources; and
WHEREAS, in a letter dated July, 2011 the six (6) county chairmen from the Chicago region committed
to replacing all present METRA Board Directors by June 30, 2012 “ in order to restore faith within the
leadership’s body” as a result of the scandal involving the former METRA Chief Executive Officer; and
WHEREAS, the public has grown suspicious and skeptical as more allegations surface making it
impossible for the remaining METRA Board Directors to continue in their positions with any public
confidence; and
WHEREAS, at least six (6) METRA Board Directors are needed for quorum to ensure that day to day
METRA operations continue unabated.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby request letters of resignation of the remaining three existing Cook County METRA Board
Directors; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the three existing Cook County METRA Board Directors will continue
to serve at the pleasure of Cook County Suburban Caucus until suitable replacements are selected; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners strongly urges the
remaining METRA Board of Directors to not take any substantive action regarding the hiring of a Chief
Executive Officer or appointment of a Board Chairperson until all remaining METRA Board Directors
have been replaced and a new full METRA Board has been seated.
Legislative History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislative and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.
A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this
Resolution be deferred. The motion carried.
13-1533
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LARRY SUFFREDIN
and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A PROPOSED RESOLUTION URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO CREATE
STRICTER CRITERIA FOR WHO CAN SERVE AS A METRA BOARD DIRECTOR
WHEREAS, the Metropolitan Rail Board (METRA) is responsible for overseeing a $713 million budget

10

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
and operating one of the largest metropolitan rail systems in the country; and
WHEREAS, recent scandals involving Alex Clifford’s separation agreement have rocked the METRA
Board and caused the resignation of the METRA Board Chairman and several Directors; and
WHEREAS, the METRA Board of Directors have a fiduciary duty to our taxpayers to ensure that the
fiscal and operational health of METRA is sustainable; and
WHEREAS, public confidence in the METRA Board of Directors is at an all-time low and therefore
more accountability measures need to be instituted; and
WHEREAS, 70 ILCS 3615/ 3.01 vests authority in the suburban members of the Cook County Board
and the Cook County Board President to appoint five Directors to the METRA Board; and
WHEREAS, the only criteria that 70 ILCS 3615/ 3.01 sets forth for the appointment of a Director is that
they reside in suburban Cook County; and
WHEREAS, proper management and oversight by the METRA Board demands basic requirements from
an appointed Director; and
WHEREAS, chief among these requirements should be a threshold age limit, educational level, and
professional background.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners urges the
Illinois General Assembly to codify basic requirements in order for an appointment to serve as Metra
Board Director.
Legislative History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislative and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this
Resolution be deferred. The motion carried.
13-1791
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Romayne Brown
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Commuter Rail Board of the Commuter Division of the Regional
Transportation Authority (Metra Board of Directors)
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: Ms. Brown will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Mr. Stanley Rakestraw.
The term shall expire March 31, 2016.

11

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012
Romayne C. Brown delivered remarks and answered questions as to her qualifications for and interest in
the position.
Chairman Suffredin entered into the record, a copy of Ms. Brown’s resume, remarks and Affidavit.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this
appointment be recommended for approval. The motion carried.
ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
passed and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
File ID Number: 13-1521 ………………………………………………… Recommended for Deferral
File ID Number: 13-1533…………………………………………………..Recommended for Deferral
File ID Number: 13-1791…………………………………………………..Recommended for Approval
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS
LARRY SUFFREDIN, Chairman
ATTEST: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary
_________________________
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the Report of the Committee on
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations be approved and adopted. The motion carried
unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Special Meeting do now
adjourn.
The motion prevailed and the Special Meeting stood adjourned.
* * * * *
The next regular County Board Meeting is scheduled by law, for Wednesday, October 23, 2013.
_________________________

12

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 18, 2012

 

County Clerk

13

