Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Tuesday, September 13, 2016
Wednesday, September 14, 2016

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

REVISED NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-5197
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 08/03/2016

 16-4392
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA and ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board
of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM’S DIRECT
ACCESS PROGRAM TO SUPPORT A HEALTHY COOK COUNTY WORKFORCE.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VII, Sec. 38-157 through 38-162 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as
follows:
COOK COUNTY DIRECT ACCESS PROGRAM
Sec. 38-157. Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Ordinance Establishing a Cook County Health and
Hospitals System direct access program."
Sec. 38-158. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cook County Health and Hospitals System also referred to as "CCHHS", means the public health system
comprised of the facilities at, and the services provided by or through, the Ambulatory and Community
Health Network, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, Community Triage Center, Cook County
Department of Public Health, Provident Hospital of Cook County, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center,
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, (collectively, the "CCHHS Facilities") and the CountyCare
Health Plan.
County means the County of Cook, a body politic and corporate of Illinois.
County Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.
Direct Access Program means the new program established by CCHHS to improve the coordination of care
for uninsured residents of Cook County, herein known as “the program.” CCHHS may identify an
alternative name upon implementation of the program.
Medical home means a health care facility responsible for the provision and coordination of all needed
health care services for a patient.
Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing a Cook County Health and Hospitals System direct access
program.
Page 2 of 4

 Primary Care Provider means an Illinois licensed independent practitioner practicing at a patient’s
medical home who is the primary point of contact and provider of health care services for that patient.
Uninsured means all uninsured residents of Cook County who earn up to 200% of the Federal Poverty
Level, who are not otherwise eligible for public health insurance.
Sec. 38-159. Establishing a direct access program.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (herein referred to as
CEO), or his/her designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to establish a direct access program to
ensure uninsured residents of Cook County have access to quality health care:
1. Leveraging CCHHS’ existing charity care program.
2. Building on the infrastructure and operations systems of the CountyCare Health Plan to ensure
proper care coordination, provider relations, and data analytics.
3. Maximizing the community partnerships and linkages established over the past 180 years of service
to the residents of Cook County.
Sec. 38-160. Elements of the CCHHS Direct Access Program.
1. A centralized system of administration.
2. Community-based outreach, enrollment and enrollee support.
3. A single enrollment application that limits the number and type of documents as much as possible
while still maintaining program integrity.
4. A membership card indicating enrollment in the program.
5. Assignment of a medical home and primary care provider.
6. A predictable and affordable cost structure for services provided by CCHHS.
7. An electronic information system that facilitates care coordination and provides the medical home
access to enrollment status, contact info, primary care provider and other health utilization data.
Sec. 38-161. Eligibility.
All uninsured residents of Cook County who earn up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Level, who are not
otherwise eligible for public health insurance shall be eligible for the program.
Sec. 38-162. Implementation.
Implementation of the program shall start as soon as is practical with the goal of launching the program
on December 1, 2016 but no later than June 1, 2017. Initially, program enrollees will only be able to
access CCHHS facilities and providers through the program.

Page 3 of 4

 Sec. 38-163. Enrollee Feedback and Engagement.
CCHHS shall facilitate regular public forums with enrollees utilizing the program. Such forums shall
allow enrollees the opportunity to provide feedback on the implementation of the program, identify
ongoing needs and gaps in existing program services, and convey their level of customer satisfaction.
CCHHS shall notify all current enrollees of the time and location of public forums and encourage their
participation. Other processes such as surveys and focus groups may be used in addition to the public
forums.
Sec. 38-164. Reporting Requirement.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System may provide quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the direct access program to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.
Legislative History: 8/3/16 Board of Commissioners refer to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 4 of 4

 