REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE
MARCH 16, 200910
REVISED ON MARCH 18, 2010

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Beavers and Commissioners Butler, Claypool,
Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims,
Suffredin and Steele (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

Also
Present:

Patrick Driscoll - Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau; Jesse Reyes Director of Social Services, Acting Chief Probation Officer; and Zelda Whittler - Under
Sheriff

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Criminal Justice of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Tuesday, March 16, 2010 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. in the Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:
304533

A RESOLUTION TO CONDUCT A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR ESTABLISHING A
REVOLVING BOND LOAN FUND (PROPOSED RESOLUTION) Submitting a
Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to
Article 7, Section 6(a) of the Illinois Constitution of 1970 with power to regulate
those matters which pertain to it’s governmental affairs; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is committed to public safety and maintaining compliance
with the Federal court’s Duran Decree at Cook County Jail; and
WHEREAS, the constant increase in crime due to the rapid increase in
unemployment coupled with the thousands of former inmates released from prison
without any job opportunities or skills to provide a living for themselves pose
serious challenges to the Cook County budget to carry out our mission; and

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 2
WHEREAS, Cook County Jail has an overwhelming number of detainees who are
awaiting trials for minor charges who pose no real flight risk or harm to themselves
or others; and
WHEREAS, such detainees could be diverted to alternative monitoring systems
outside of Cook County Jail; and
WHEREAS, when inmates are housed in Cook County Jail they lose all of their
health benefits and Cook County has to shoulder the burden of the cost for health,
security and other necessities which is putting a serious strain on our budget in
addition to keeping Cook County from maintaining compliance with the decree; and
WHEREAS, the County will be more financially responsible if they established a
Revolving Loan Fund which would loan bond amounts to persons arrested for
minor crimes. Qualified persons must be employed at time of arrest, with a good
work history, agree to continue to work to enter into a payback agreement plan that
would allow payments of the loan to be deducted from their employment checks
and sent directly to the loan fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Judicial Advisory Council
President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners conduct a feasibility study
for establishing a Revolving Bond Loan Fund as well as the existing Bond
process for qualified arrestees awaiting trial and all other existing Bond
Programs in order to eliminate the cost of housing them in jail and to ensure public
safety.
*REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE 1/12/10.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to amend
Communication No. 304533 indicated above with bold and underlined text. The motion to
amend carried.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Sims,
Communication No. 304533 as amended. The motion carried.

moved

to

approve

Commissioner Claypool voted No on Communication No. 304533.
304534

AN AMENDMENT TO THE SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE OF THE COOK COUNTY
JAIL DIVERSION PILOT PROGRAM FOR ADULTS AND YOUTH (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO THE SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY JAIL DIVERSION PILOT PROGRAM FOR ADULTS AND
YOUTH

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 3

ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1.1
Section 1.2

Short Title.
Preamble.

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in
Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and
affairs; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has an ongoing responsibility for protecting the health
and safety of its residents and remains committed to public service that is efficient,
equitable and accountable; and
WHEREAS, approximately 15% of the jail population is diagnosed with mental
illness and if coupled with the population suffering with substance abuse disorder
the number increases to approximately 60%. The rate of recidivism for those not
receiving service intervention ranges from 60-70%; and
WHEREAS, for each non-violent offender who is diverted from incarceration Cook
County saves an estimated $1,800 per month by avoiding the cost of prosecution
and court expenses not including the cost of healthcare; and
WHEREAS, it has been documented that the number of arrests, the length of jail
time, as well as hospital stays among the mentally ill are substantially reduced
when diversionary measures are employed that provide appropriate assessment
and treatment as an alternative to incarceration; and
WHEREAS, some diversionary methods are currently employed and among the
most successful are the Mental Health court, the Drug Court, the Juvenile
Delinquency Screening Diversion and small programs initiated at some of
Chicago’s local police districts; and
WHEREAS, the establishment of a Cook County Jail Diversion Pilot Program, in
partnership with the State of Illinois, local law enforcement, and community based
mental health and social service providers, will reduce Cook County’s jail
population and improve the quality of mental healthcare in Cook County.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND COOK
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO ESTABLISH A COOK COUNTY
JAIL DIVERSION PILOT PROGRAM FOR MENTALLY ILL AND/OR MENTALLY
ILL WITH CO-OCCURRING SUBSTANCE ABUSE DISORDER ARRESTEES.

ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS.
Section 2.1
Section 3.1
Section 3.2

Definitions
Purpose
Scope of Program

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 4
Section 3.3
Section 3.4
Section 3.5

Target Population
Eligibility
Types of Jail Diversion Programs
ARTICLE IV. PROGRAM PREREQUISITES

Section 4.1
Section 4.2

Intergovernmental Agreement - Memorandum of Understanding
Funding
ARTICLE V. ADVISORY PANEL

Section 5.1
Section 5.2
Section 5.3

Purpose
Structure
Responsibilities of Advisory Panel
ARTICLE VI. ESTABLISHMENT OF DATABASES

Section 6.1

Establishment of Databases
ARTICLE VII. EVALUATIONS

Section 7.1
Section 7.2

Police Evaluations
Performance Measurement Standards
ARTICLE VIII. APPLICABILITY
ARTICLE IX. SEVERABILITY
ARTICLE X. EFFECTIVE DATE

Section 10.1 Effective Date.
*REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE 1/12/10.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to adopt accept the
Substitute Ordinance amendment for Communication No. 304534. The motion carried.

Substitute Ordinance Amendment
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE EARLEAN COLLINS, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AMENDMENT TO JAIL DIVERSION PILOT PROGRAM ORDINANCE

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 5
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in Article VII,
Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise any
power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has an ongoing responsibility for protecting the health and safety of
its residents and remains committed to public service that is efficient, equitable and
accountable; and
WHEREAS, approximately 15% of the jail population is diagnosed with mental illness and if
coupled with the population suffering with co-occurring substance abuse disorder the number
increases to approximately 60%. The rate of recidivism for those not receiving service
intervention ranges from 60-70%; and
WHEREAS, for each non-violent offender who is diverted from incarceration Cook County
saves an estimated $1,800 per month by avoiding the cost of prosecution and court expenses
not including the cost of healthcare; and
WHEREAS, it has been documented that the number of arrests, the length of jail time, as well
as hospital stays among the mentally ill are substantially reduced when diversionary measures
are employed that provide appropriate assessment and treatment as an alternative to
incarceration; and
WHEREAS, some diversionary methods are currently employed and among the most
successful are the Mental Health court, the Drug Court, the Juvenile Delinquency Screening
Diversion and small programs initiated at some of Chicago’s local police districts; and
WHEREAS, the establishment of a Cook County Jail Diversion Program, in partnership with the
State of Illinois, local law enforcement, and community based mental health and social service
providers, will reduce Cook County’s jail population and improve the quality of mental healthcare
in Cook County.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 46 Law Enforcement, Article IV, Sec. 46-171 through Sec. 46-307 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:

ARTICLE IV. JAIL DIVERSION PILOT PROGRAM
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY

Sec. 46-171. Short title.
This article shall be cited and may be known as the Cook County Jail Diversion Pilot Program
for Adults and Youth.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 6
Sec. 46-172. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appropriate authorities. The Circuit Court of Cook County, the State's Attorney of Cook County,
the Sheriff of Cook County, the Public Defender of Cook County, and local law enforcement.
Case management. The process of assisting and monitoring target population detainees in
achieving their individualized treatment plan consistent with their diversion plans.
Class 4 felony. An offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment of one to three years
in a penitentiary and/or a fine of up to $25,000.00 or the amount specified in the offense,
whichever is greater, may be imposed. (730 ILCS 5/5-8-1 and 730 ILCS 5/5-9-1)
Community based mental health service providers. Mental health service providers working
within local organization and health facilities.
Co-occurring substance abuse disorder. Mentally ill detainees with addictions to alcohol, drugs
and/or other chemical substances (M.I.S.A.).
Crisis intervention. To safely intervene with people in crisis in order to stabilize a crisis situation
while minimizing the risk of harm to the individual and all persons involved.
Diversion. A program that diverts target population detainees from jail in accordance with
standardized procedures established by the Advisory Board in conjunction with the appropriate
authorities, the detainee and/or their legal representative.
Diversion plan. An individualized community based treatment and supportive service plan as an
alternative to incarceration with a focus on minimizing repeat unlawful conduct.
Diverted detainee. A target population detainee who is approved by the appropriate authorities
for diversion.
Felony. An offense for which a sentence to death or to a term of imprisonment in a penitentiary
for one year or more is provided. (720 ILCS 5/2-7)
Mental health assessment. An examination by a licensed mental health service provider and, if
applicable, by a substance abuse service provider.
Mental health service providers. Mental health service provider with expertise in providing
comprehensive psychological, emotional and/or psychiatric services, in accordance with the
Illinois Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code, 405 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and consistent
with standards adopted by recognized professional mental health service provider associations
including the Illinois Psychological Association.
Mentally ill. Persons who have been clinically diagnosed with a mental illness including persons
with co-occurring substance abuse disorder.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 7
Misdemeanor. Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment, other than to a
penitentiary, for less than one year may be imposed (720 ILCS 5/2-11):
(1) Class A. An offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment, other than in a
penitentiary, of up to one year and/or a fine of up to $25,000.00 or the amount specified in the
offense, whichever is greater, may be imposed. (730 ILCS 5/5-9-1 and 730 ILCS 5/5-8-3)
(2) Class B. An offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment, other than in a
penitentiary, of up to six months and/or a fine of up to $1,500.00 or the amount specified in the
offense, whichever is greater, may be imposed. (730 ILCS 5/5-9-1 and 730 ILCS 5/5-8-3)
(3) Class C. An offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment, other than in a
penitentiary, of up to 30 days and/or a fine of up to $1,500.00 or the amount specified in the
offense, whichever is greater, may be imposed. (730 ILCS 5/5-9-1 and 730 ILCS 5/5-8-3)
Post booking diversion. Diversion agreed to by the State's Attorney's Office after the arrest of a
detainee as an alternative to prosecution.
Pre-booking diversion. Diversion agreed to by local law enforcement authorities prior to any
formal charges being filed against a detainee.
Provider. A mental health service provider or a substance abuse service provider.
Special Court. Cook County Mental Health Court.
Substance Abuse. A pattern of harmful use of alcohol or drug use for mood altering purposes.
Substance abuse service providers. Individuals in local organizations and health facilities with
expertise in providing comprehensive assessments and treatment services in accordance with
the Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency Act, 20 ILCS 301/1 et seq., as
administered by the Illinois Department of Human Services, formerly known as the Illinois
Department of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.
Target population detainees. People with mental illness, including those with co-occurring
substance abuse disorder, with a primary focus on offenders within the jurisdiction of agreed
upon police districts within the City of Chicago and the Village of Maywood, the jurisdiction of
the Juvenile Court and misdemeanor courts of the District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the Circuit
Court of the County and the jurisdiction of the Mental Health Court located at the Criminal Court
Building in the City of Chicago.
Third party health coverage. Health coverage provided by a public or private reimbursement
program including but not limited to Medicaid or Medicare.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 8
Sec. 46-173. Applicability of article.
(a) As provided in Article VII, Section 6(c), of the State of Illinois Constitution of 1970, if this
article conflicts with an ordinance of a municipality, the municipal ordinance shall prevail within
the municipality. This article shall be enforceable within the municipal jurisdiction to the extent
permitted under the statutes and constitution of the State of Illinois and of the United States of
America.
(b) Nothing in this article shall be construed to compel law enforcement officers, the State's
Attorney's Office, the Public Defender's Office, the Circuit Court of the County or any office or
agency working with those offices in the administration of the criminal justice system to take any
action which is inconsistent with the judgment and decisions of those offices or to act in a
manner which is contrary to existing law. To the extent that any provision of this article requires
express statutory authorization, the approval of any official or requires an agreement between
the affected parties, this article shall be contingent upon such statutory authorization, approval
or agreement.
Sec. 46-174. Implementation dates.
(a) Within six weeks of the passage of Ordinance No. 05-O-46 an Advisory Panel shall be
appointed and approved.
(b) The Jail Diversion Pilot Program shall take effect six months after the creation of the
Advisory Panel.
(c) The Jail Diversion Pilot Program shall run for a period of 18 months.
(d) Within one year after the implementation of this Pilot Program, the Advisory Panel shall
report to the County Board regarding the number of arrestees diverted, the cost benefits to the
County, the effectiveness and future viability of an expanded County wide jail diversion
program.
DIVISION 2. PROGRAM ESTABLISHED
Sec. 46-201. Purpose.
The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Pilot Program are to:
(1) Improve public safety by establishing partnerships and cooperative working relationships
between state, federal and local units of government and community based service providers for
the housing and treatment of the mentally ill population in the County.
(2) Provide mentally ill and substance abuse offenders with improved access to the
appropriate assessment and treatment services.
(3)

Reduce rates of recidivism among mentally ill and substance abuse offenders.

(4)

Reduce the jail population in the County.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 9
(5)

Assist in maintaining compliance with the Federal consent decree on jail overcrowding.

(6) Afford equal access to all people, without regard to race, color, sex, age, religion, disability,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, housing, or any other protected category established by law, to
alternatives to incarceration.
(7) Improve positive relationships between target population citizens and law enforcement
officers.
(8)
Ease the financial burden on County taxpayers for the cost of treatment for the
aforementioned population in the County correctional system.
Sec. 46-202. Scope.
The County Board calls upon persons responsible for the administration of the criminal justice
system with the County and the officials and community service providers responsible for
mental health services in the State of Illinois to work together to develop improved and
expanded diversion programs for person suffering from mental illness and mental illness with
co-occurring substance abuse disorder on a pilot program basis in order to determine how such
programs might be expanded to promote treatment as an alternative to incarceration on a
broader scale within the County.
(1) Assessments. Detainees who are considered for diversion must agree to undergo an
individualized mental health and physical evaluation and assessment and to accept referrals for
appropriate services including housing and case management. The program must be designed
to reduce the number of mentally ill and substance abuse detainees entering into the County jail
and afford greater opportunities for crisis intervention and essential supportive services.
(2) Provider service standards. To the extent possible, Mental Health and Substance Abuse
Disorder Service Providers who participate in the jail diversion program shall be those who are
already receiving funds from Federal, State, County, and/or local units of governments for
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Disorder services. All County funding for such services, if
any, shall be performance based and any renewal shall be contingent upon the quality and
quantity of service rendered the previous year. Each participating diverted detainee must have
an individualized service plan which shall be developed by a licensed professional in the State
in the field of mental health and substance abuse disorder. This plan must be in collaboration
with the appropriate law enforcement officials and the criminal justice system when applicable.
The treatment plan shall be consistent with the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental
Disabilities Code, 405 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and in accordance with the Alcoholism and Other Drug
Abuse and Dependency Act, 20 ILCS 301/1 et seq., standards adopted by recognized
professional mental health and substance abuse service provider associations including the
Illinois Psychological Association, and the Illinois Department of Human Services.
(3) Regional crisis resources for law enforcement. A regional 24-hour crisis intervention
resource center, operated by a lead agency, shall be established to be utilized by local law
enforcement when there is no available service in the impacted area. The crisis center shall
assist local law enforcement, including any law enforcement crisis intervention teams, when
called upon to stabilize a crisis situation involving a mentally ill and substance abuse offender.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 10
The crisis center and the crisis intervention team shall be subject to funding by the
intergovernmental agreement established in accordance with provisions set forth in Division 3 of
this article.
(4) Third party health care reimbursement sources. In those cases where a diverted detainee
does not have a source of third party health coverage, the County Bureau of Health Services
shall make every concerted effort to assist the diverted detainee in making application for any
third party health care reimbursement.
Sec. 46-203. Target population.
The County's Jail Diversion Pilot Program shall focus on the following categories of detainees
with a primary focus on offenders within the jurisdiction of agreed upon police districts within the
City of Chicago and the Village of Maywood, the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court and
misdemeanor courts of the District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the Circuit Court of Cook County
and the jurisdiction of the Mental Health Court located at the Criminal Court Building in the City
of Chicago:
(1) Mentally ill detainees and substance abuse detained for Class A, B and C misdemeanors
which are nonviolent.
(2) Mentally ill detainees and substance abuse detained for non-violent Class 4 felony
offenses.
Sec. 46-204. Eligibility.
For pre-booking jail diversion there is no mandatory requirement that a diverted detainee first
plead guilty to an offense prior to participating in a diversion program.

Sec. 46-205. Types of jail diversion programs.
(a) This jail diversion pilot program is designed to strengthen existing jail diversion efforts
which are currently used by some local law enforcement officials such as station adjustments,
peer juries, special courts, and other alternatives to incarceration.
(b) This Jail Diversion Pilot Program will include four types of diversion, each of which shall be
subject to the approval of the appropriate authorities and have agreed-upon conditions by all
parties involved, the agreement shall be tailored to particular circumstances, for which diverted
detainees shall be held accountable. The four categories of diversion are as follows:
(1) Pre-booking diversion. Pre-booking diversion may be sought by local law enforcement for
mentally ill detainees and substance abuse, booked for Class B and C misdemeanors, as often
as possible. The arresting officer shall be the first line of contact and shall be encouraged to
take the following basic steps prior to any official charges for minor and/or nuisance crimes:
a. Attempt to resolve any crisis without harm to the suspect, general public, or law enforcement
officials.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 11
b. Refer directly to a hospital or treatment center when appropriate.
c. Contact parent or guardian if mentally ill and substance abuse detainee is under 17.
d. Evaluate the situation and determine if the suspect is potentially divertible.
e. Determine if detainee can be sent to his or her residence under conditions agreed upon by
law enforcement, detainee, parent(s) or guardian, and the victim of the crime.
f. Contact a community based mental health and substance abuse service provider when
appropriate for proper assessment and referral for services.
g. If no community based mental health and substance abuse service provider is available
contact the 24-hour regional crisis center for crisis intervention.
h. In cases where the detainee has caused injury to a person or damage to one's property, the
appropriate authorities shall be encourage to explore all efforts for restitution as a condition of
pre-booking diversion.
i. Complete a detailed incident report.
(2) Post-booking diversion. This category of diversion may be sought by the State's Attorney
for mentally ill and substance abuse detainees who are detained for crimes that constitute Class
A misdemeanors and Class 4 felonies and which are nonviolent. The State's Attorney may seek
a pre-arraignment investigation which may include, but need not be limited to, assessment by a
mental health and substance abuse service provider to determine whether the suspect is
eligible for diversion. If a diversion plan is agreed upon by all parties involved, it may include a
requirement that the diverted detainee adhere to an individualized treatment and service plan
developed by an appropriate clinician, provision for restitution with respect to injuries or property
damage caused by the diverted detainee and may identify a case manager who shall monitor
the diverted detainee's compliance with the diversion plan and report on such compliance as
required in the diversion plan.
(3) Pre-trial diversion to special courts. This level shall continue to emphasize proper
assessment and speedy trials for those detainees who have been diagnosed by the appropriate
clinicians as being mentally ill or mentally ill with co-occurring substance abuse disorders. If a
detainee has been diagnosed as being mentally ill or diagnosed with mentally ill with cooccurring substance abuse disorders and is held over for trial the detainee shall have immediate
access to the appropriate treatment services. The case should be referred to the appropriate
special courts for a speedy trial. This category of diversion is subject to the approval of the
court.
(4)

Post-adjudication diversion.

a. This category of diversion is for persons adjudicated guilty of an offense by the courts. In
cases where a person has also been found, by a licensed clinician, as being mentally ill and
suffering with substance abuse it has been agreed on by the courts that a diversion plan may
be developed, that person shall be eligible for immediate treatment.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 12
b. This category of diversion consists of dispositions in the Juvenile Court and the
misdemeanor courts within the jurisdiction of the District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the Circuit
Court of Cook County and the Mental Health Court. In appropriate cases as ordered by the
court, a diversion plan may be developed as a condition of a defendant's probation or
supervision. The court may consider assignment of a case manager to monitor the defendant's
compliance with the diversion plan and may require notification of the arresting law enforcement
agency or other parties prior to the defendant's release from custody or discharge from
hospitalization for mental health or substance abuse treatment.
(c) Resumption of prosecution. Failure to comply with the diversion plan shall subject the
diverted detainee to further prosecution.
Sec. 46-206. Crisis intervention training.
The intergovernmental agreement shall explore funding and promotion of training opportunities
for law enforcement and service providers with respect to crisis intervention involving persons
with mental illness and substance abuse which shall include recognition of mental illness and
substance abusers, knowledge of available local resources and the use of less than lethal force.
Sec. 46-207. Confidentiality.
The rules of confidentiality, as set forth under the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental
Disabilities Code and Alchoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency Act and other
applicable State, Federal and local laws, shall be adhered to.
DIVISION 3. PROGRAM PREREQUISITES
Sec. 46-231. Intergovernmental agreement; memorandum of understanding.
In order to implement the Jail Diversion Pilot Program, the County Board requests that one or
more Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) or Intergovernmental Agreements be developed
between the appropriate authorities including, but not limited to, the County of Cook, the State
of Illinois, the Circuit Court of Cook County, the State's Attorney of Cook County, the Sheriff of
Cook County and participating units of local government on behalf of their respective police
departments. The agreements shall address the following:
(1) The roles of the State of Illinois, the County of Cook, and community mental health (708)
boards in funding and providing services for the target population detainees in the County.
(2) The feasibility of improved service coverage for diverted detainees through shared
resources.
(3) The establishment and funding of a 24-hour Crisis Intervention Center to assist police
departments with crises involving mentally ill offenders.
(4) Standardized policies and procedures to ensure equal opportunity for all mentally ill and
mentally ill with co-occurring substance abuse disorder population to participate in a diversion
program not withstanding their place of residence.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 13

Sec. 46-232. Funding.
Mental health and substance abuse service providers participating in the County Jail Pilot
Diversion Program shall seek reimbursement for their services from third party reimbursement
sources (i.e. Kidcare, Medicare/Medicaid, and/or private insurance entities) and, where
applicable, may be compensated through federal, state and local grants. Subject to the
appropriation and availability of funds and to the enactment of an ordinance establishing
programmatic requirements, the County shall create a revolving loan fund program to assist
community based providers with cash flow problems resulting from delays in reimbursement for
diverted detainees from third party reimbursement sources. Service providers shall not be
eligible to apply for a revolving loan fund unless reimbursement from the third party
reimbursement source is at least 45 days late.
DIVISION 4. ADVISORY PANEL
Sec. 46-256. Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the Advisory Panel is to establish a strong advocacy and resource group to
enhance the County's effort to improve the quality of mental health services for the mentally ill
and substance abuse population in the County and to reduce this population in our the County
jail.
(b) The 13-member panel shall be composed of persons with expertise in law enforcement,
criminal justice, assessment and treatment of the mentally ill and substance abuse population.

Sec. 46-257. Structure.
(a) A 13-member Advisory Panel is established to report to the County Board regarding the
implementation and evaluation of the County Jail Diversion Pilot Program.
(b) The Advisory Panel shall consist of 13 members as follows: one appointed by the Chief
Judge, one appointed by the Cook County Sheriff, two appointed by the State's Attorney, one
appointed by the Public Defender, two appointed by the City of Chicago, one appointed by the
Village of Maywood, and five appointed by the President of the County Board from among the
following: one selected from the Bureau of Health Services, one selected from University of
Illinois Jane Addams School of Social Work, one selected from Illinois Community Mental
Health Providers Association, and two selected from Consumer Organizations with one
representing mental health.
(c) This Advisory Panel's composition will reflect the demographics of the County as a whole.
The panel shall select officers from among its membership.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 14
Sec. 46-258. Responsibilities.
The Advisory Panel shall:
(1) Recommend administrative policies and procedures for implementation of the County Jail
Diversion Program.
(2) Identify current federal and state funding resources for services to the mentally ill and
substance abuse detainee population.
(3) Develop a feasibility study to determine the availability of essential mental health and
substance abuse disorder services at the community level to ensure a successful mental health
and substance abuse diversion program for both youth and adults.
(4) Recommend a structure for maximizing the use of existing resources and making them
readily available to law enforcement for appropriate referrals.
(5) Assist in establishing a collaborative relationship between the State, the County, local
municipalities and local community based mental health and substance abuse disorder service
providers with emphasis on mutual goals, shared responsibilities and benefits.
(6)
Review existing training curriculum for law enforcement officials and make
recommendations for change to enhance their ability, where needed, to identify mentally ill and
substance abuse detainees.
(7)

Establish criteria for measuring the outcome of the program.

(8)

Devise a plan for minimizing cost through service integration and coordination.

(9) Lobby Federal and State governments to improve funding resources for Jail Diversion
Program services.
(10) Request that the County apply for grants for support staff to the Advisory Panel.
(11) Recommend procedures to ensure nondiscriminatory opportunities for Detainees to
participate in a diversion program.

DIVISION 5. DATABASES
Sec. 46-281. Establishment of.
Law enforcement, the State's Attorney's Office and the Probation Department are requested to
maintain a data base of information regarding persons who have been diverted by their
respective agencies in order to assist in identifying "repeat" offenders who may have been
previously diagnosed with a mental illness and/or mental illness with co-occurring substance
abuse disorder.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 15
DIVISION 6. EVALUATIONS
Sec. 46-306. Police evaluations.
Law enforcement is encouraged to include the following criteria for evaluation of police
response to crises involving mentally ill and substance abuse offenders. Evaluations of police
responses should be consistently conducted on a case-by-case basis to determine the quality of
the processes that law enforcement use to respond to mentally ill and substance abuse
detainees. Evaluation Criteria should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) Was there any significant violence or harm done to the subject, the general public or law
enforcement officials during the process of apprehension?
(2)

Was the crisis resolved on the scene? At the police station? Or elsewhere?

(3)

Were family members alerted and included in the problem resolution process?

(4) Was the detainee transported or referred to the appropriate service provider when
warranted?
(5)

Was the detainee formally incarcerated? If so, for what length of time?

(6) Did law enforcement take advantage of community-based resources and were the
resources readily available as well as suitable for the situation?
(7) Was this a "repeat encounter" with the detainee within a year, six months, 90 days, or 45
days?
Sec. 46-307. Performance measurement standards.
In providing funding for provider services relating to mentally ill and substance abuse detainees,
the County may consider:
(1) Performance measurements for mental health service providers as recommended by the
County Bureau of Health Services consistent with the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental
Disabilities Code and standards of professional organizations including, but not limited to, the
Illinois Psychological Association and the National Association of Clinical Social Workers.
(2) Performance measurements for substance abuse service providers as recommended by
the County Bureau of Health Services consistent with standards as set forth by the Illinois
Department of Human Services, formerly known as the Illinois Department of Alcoholism and
Substance Abuse.
(3)

Performance measurement criteria shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

a. Case management.
b. Total number of detainees seen per quarter.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 16
c. Number of appointments made by detainee and percentage of those kept.
d. Documentation that confirms detainees living arrangements.
e. The amount of periodic follow-up conducted with family-based detainees to determine if
basic needs were being met.
f. Current and accurate detainee records that are available for review by any appropriate
governmental agency.
g. Rate of recidivism.
h. Progress report of the detainee's efforts in accordance with the individualized treatment
plan.

Effective Date: This amended ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Commissioner Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to approve Substitute
Communication No. 304534. The motion carried.
Commissioner Butler voted No on Communication No. 304534.
304536

AN AMENDMENT TO THE CANNABIS POSSESSION ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CANNABIS POSSESSION

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 58,
Offenses and Miscellaneous Provisions, Article VI, Offenses Against Public Peace,
Section 58-170 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE VI. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Sec. 58-170. Possession of cannabis.
(a)
Definitions. All terms and phrases used herein shall have the same
meaning as ascribed to them in the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.);
except the term "person" is limited to natural persons who have attained the age of
seventeen (17) years or more.
(b)
Offense of possession of cannabis A person commits the offense of
possession of cannabis within the unincorporated area of Cook County or areas of
enforcement by the Cook County Sheriff’s Office by knowingly possessing ten (10)
grams or less of any substance containing cannabis unless permitted or authorized

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 17
to do so pursuant to the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.).
(c)

Violations, Penalties.

(1)

Any person violating subsection (b) shall be subject to a mandatory
fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00).

(2)

Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the
possession of cannabis in violation of subsection (b) shall be subject
to seizure and impoundment pursuant to Section 58-164.

(d)
Administrative adjudication. Any person issued a notice of violation
for violation of subsection (b) of this Section may request an administrative hearing
in accordance with Chapter 2 Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings of
this Code.
*REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE 1/12/10.
Vice Chairman Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to approve
Communication No. 304536. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of
yeas and nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE
COMMUNICATION NO. 304536
Yeas:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Beavers, Commissioners Peraica, Steele and
Suffredin (5)

Nays:

Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy,
Reyes, Schneider and Silvestri (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Gainer and Sims (2)

The motion to Approve Communication No. 304536 FAILED.
Chairman Collins asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):
1. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Gorman. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

 CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 16, 2010
PAGE 18

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Numbers 304533
Communication Numbers 304534
Communication Numbers 304536

Approved As Amended
Substitute Approved As
Amended
Failed Not Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Criminal Justice Committee

_________________________________
Earlean Collins, Chairman
Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

The transcript and audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary
to the Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 