MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
April 21, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, April 21, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:11 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee
Gould, Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, and Member Dunn participated via telephone
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on March 4, 2016. Member Gould seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN'S COMMENTS –
The Chairman expressed appreciation to staff for their hard work and a job well done. The
Chairman also thanked the SEP organizations for the charitable contributions to non-profit help
groups for problem gambling.
ADMINISTRATOR'S COMMENTS –
The Administrator stated that the June Board Meeting will take place in Chicago instead of
Springfield. The Administrator also commented on progress of the MBE WBE DBE studies that
Member Robinson is working on.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
Final Consideration
(Board Action/Vote Required)
Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel – Donald J. Snyder Table Games Manager - Level 1
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve Donald J. Snyder as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in his position as Table Games Manager for Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino and Hotel. Member Robinson seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – Patrick Delhougne – Board of
Directors, CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC – Key Person
Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Patrick Delhougne as a Key Person as a
member of the Board of Directors for CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC for Midwest Gaming
and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS (Approval and Denials)
Member Gould moved to find suitable and approve 82 Level 2 occupational licenses, and 198
Level 3 occupational licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to
the following applicants:
1. Renee Weighall
2. Pamela Grant
3. John William Solan, Jr
Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Theresa Mayweathers
Makfire Shabani
Teresa Marquez
Member Robinson moved to revoke the occupational license of Theresa Mayweathers,
Makfire Shabani and Teresa Marquez due to their conduct of theft, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Gould seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Christopher Barrera (Level 3 occupational licensee)
Member Alejandre moved to revoke the occupational license of Christopher Barrera due to
his failure to update his criminal history and cooperate with IGB Staff, said action to take
effect 21 days from the date of service of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint
is filed within that time frame pursuant to Board Rule 1125. Member Robinson seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously by roll call vote.
REQUESTS FOR HEARING:
Robert Mulvey
Chairman Tracy moved to grant the request for hearing submitted by Robert Mulvey, as he
has established a prima facie case for hearing. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
Member Robinson, Member Gould and Member Alejandre voted NO. The motion failed.
Michelle Millhouse
Member Robinson moved to deny the request for hearing submitted by Michelle Millhouse,
as her request did not comply with the Board Rules and did not established a prima facie
case for a hearing. Member Gould seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by
roll call vote.

2

 At 9:24 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 