Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Tuesday, January 20, 2015

12:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item
that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 12/16/2014.
15-0603
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Patrick M. Brady
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Sheriff’s Merit Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: Third Monday in March, 2020, or until a successor is appointed.
Summary: Mr. Patrick M. Brady is a prominent lawyer with Barnes & Thornburg, LLP, in Chicago, Illinois. Mr.
Brady led a distinguished career as a former federal and state prosecutor, with vast experience in law enforcement
and criminal justice. Mr. Brady is also noted for his accomplishments as Principal, Deloitte LLP; United States
Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Fraud Section; Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office, Assistant State’s
Attorney, Special Prosecutions Bureau, Financial Crimes. Mr. Brady graduated from Southern Illinois University
School of Law and the University of Arizona, where he was the Chairman of the School of Law Ethics Council.

 Legislative History: 12/17/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
15-0675
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING
DEPARTMENTS OR AGENCIES

PRESIDENTIAL

APPOINTMENTS

TO

COOK

COUNTY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article IV, Division 1,
Section 2-141 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Section 2-141. - Presidential Appointments requiring advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners.
The following Cook County employees or officials shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Commissioners:

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)
(m)

Administrative Hearing Director (pursuant to Section 2-901 of the County’s Code of Ordinances);
Animal Control Administrator (pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/1);
Auditor (pursuant to Section 2-311 of the County’s Code of Ordinances);
Budget Director (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14005);
Bureau Chief of Economic Development (pursuant to this Section);
Bureau Chief of Human Resources (pursuant to this Section);
Chief Administrative Officer (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14006);
Chief Financial Officer (pursuant to Section 2-402 of the County’s Code of Ordinances);
Chief Information Officer (pursuant to this Section);
Chief Procurement Officer (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-36002 and Section 34-124);
Medical Examiner (pursuant to Section 38-112 of the County’s Code of Ordinances);
Public Defender (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-4004.1); and
Superintendent of Transportation and Highways (pursuant to 605 ILCS 5/6-202).

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article
V, Division 3, Section 2-411 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
The Office of Cook County Comptroller is hereby established. The Comptroller shall be appointed by the President
with the approval of the Cook County Board.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article
V, Division 3, Section 2-433 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
There is hereby created the office of Director of Revenue. The Director of Revenue shall be appointed by the
President of the County Board with the advice and consent of the Board. The Director of Revenue shall have the
management and control of all matters and things pertaining to the Department of Revenue.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 102,
Article V, Section 5.1-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

a.

The Building Commissioner shall be the head of said Building Department and may be a registered architect,

Page 2 of 3

 registered structural engineer, registered professional engineer, or an administrator with at least 10 years
responsible experience in the construction industry or a related field. While he serves as Building Commissioner he
shall not be actively engaged in any other business. He shall be appointed by the President of the Board by and with
the advice and consent of the County Board and shall serve at the pleasure of said Board the President.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 12/17/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
15-0706
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS
COMMITTEE TO DISCUSS PENDING LEGISLATION BEFORE THE ILLINOIS GENERAL
ASSEMBLY AND THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS
WHEREAS, the Illinois General Assembly and the United States Congress are currently considering numerous
bills that effect the services and operation of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the County’s intergovernmental relations staff and hired lobbyists are actively monitoring the
legislation that effects Cook County’s services and operations; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners wishes to be updated on the status of certain bills pending
before the Illinois General Assembly and the United States Congress so that it may take positions and communicate
such positions to the legislation bodies on the relevant proposed legislation;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby request
that a meeting of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee be convened to discuss the status of
pending legislation in the Illinois General Assembly and the United States Congress; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the intergovernmental relations staff and all hired lobbyists of the President
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners appear before the Committee and be prepared to update the
Committee on legislation pending before the General Assembly and the United States Congress that affects Cook
County’s services and operations.
Legislative History: 12/17/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

_________________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

 