Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee Minutes

Tuesday, October 6, 2015

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioners Tobolski (4)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Murphy asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)
1. George Blakemore
2. Jeanette B. Daubaras
3. Stephanie Kovacik
4. Kathy Henrikson
5. Hon. Brian K. Reaves, Mayor, Village of Lemont
6. Hon. Steven Rosendahl, Supervisor, Lemont Township
7. Hon. Mike Shackel, President, School District 210
8. Hon. Cindy Kelly, President, Lemont-Bromberek Cons School District 113A
9. Hon. Brian Pepich, President, Lemont Park District
10. Marc Maton, Chief of Police, Village of Lemont
11. George Schafer, Village Administrator, Village of Lemont
12. Hon. Debby Blatzer, Trustee, Village of Lemont
13. Hon. Paul Chialdikas, Trustee, Village of Lemont
14. Hon. Rick Sniegowski, Trustee, Village of Lemont
15. David Molitor, Lemont IL
16. Jeff Stein, Village Attorney, Village of Lemont
17. Lisa Wright
18. Chris Baum, 5th Ave Construction
19. William E. McNulty, President, Gleneagles Country Club Inc.
20. Howard Ludwig, Historic Ludwig Farm
21. Nancy Ludwig, Historic Ludwig Farm
22. Frank Jemsek, CEO, Cog Hill Golf and Country Club
23. Katherine Jemsek, President, Cog Hill Golf and Country Club
24. Hon. Nicole Milovich-Walters, Commissioner, Village of Palos Park
25. Hon. John F. Mahoney, Village of Palos Park
26. Rick Boehm, Village Manager, Village of Palos Park

 15-0591
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9-8-2015
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Tobolski (1)

15-0198
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning & Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Palos Park, Illinois
Request: approval to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
Goods or Services: to annex and provide municipal water and sewer service to certain Forest Preserve property
located in unincorporated Cook County.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Twenty (20) years from the date of full execution.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 17
Summary: The Forest Preserves owns certain property on the south side of McCarthy Road (123rd Street) east of
Will-Cook Road that it is currently using for a police facility that it wishes to connect to the Village of Palos Park’s
water and sanitary sewer. The police facility is not located within the municipal boundaries of the Village. The
Village is willing to allow connection and provide water and sanitary sewer service to the police facility and
other Forest Preserve property located on Bell Road provided the subject Forest Preserve Property is brought within
the municipal boundaries of the Village.
Legislative History 9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be accept a substitute. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)
Page 2 of 6

 Absent:

Tobolski (1)

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be deferred. The motion failed by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioners Boykin and Suffredin (2)

Nays:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, and Steele (14)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 15-0198

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning & Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Palos Park, Illinois
Request: approval to enter into an intergovernmental agreement and execute and file a petition for annexation
Goods or Services: to annex and provide municipal water and sewer service to certain Forest Preserve property
located in unincorporated Cook County
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Twenty (20) years from the date of full execution.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 17
Summary: The Forest Preserves owns certain property on the south side of McCarthy Road (123 rd Street) in
unincorporated Cook County that it currently is using for a police facility and that it has identified via its 2013
Camping Master Plan as a potential future camp site. The Forest Preserves wishes to connect the current police
facility and, once it is constructed, its future camp site to the Village of Palos Park’s water and sanitary sewer
systems. The Village of Palos Park is willing to allow connection and provide water and sanitary sewer service to
the police station and the proposed future camp site provided the subject Forest Preserves property is brought within
the municipal boundaries of the Village. The Forest Preserves is seeking approval to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement and to execute and file a petition for annexation, after final review and approval of such documents by
the Chief Attorney of the Forest Preserves.
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be adopted as amended by substitution. The motion carried by the
following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (13)

Nays:

Commissioners Boykin and Commissioner Suffredin (2)
Page 3 of 6

 Present:

Commissioner Steele (1)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

15-0458
(This item was deferred on September 8, 2015)
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Forest Preserve District Commissioner
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to Willow Building, Inc., Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a license to utilize

up to 30 parking spaces for overflow parking for an office building located at 1622 Willow Road, Suite
200, Northfield, IL 60093. Permission is now sought, upon satisfactory completion of all due diligence
and negotiation of any and all relevant provisions as determined by the Preserves' legal department, to
enter into and execute the License. The request is to utilizespaces in #1 parking lot in Erickson Woods
Grove, Northfield, IL. The requested spaces will be utilized on an intermittent basis from 8:30 am until
6:30 pm, Monday through Friday for the term of the lease. The Grantee is seeking use of the spaces to
comply with Ordinance Number 03-1173 of the Village of Northfield requiring the Grantee to obtain a
Special Use Permit from the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for the use of up to 30 parking
spaces in Erickson Woods’ parking lot.
Term: 10/1/2015 - 9/30/2025
License Fee:

$18,000. Total one-time upfront for the term of the License.

License Application Fee: $1,000 (paid by Grantee in November of 2014)
YELAR Fee: N/A
Total one-time upfront fee of $0 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: up to 30 parking spaces
Concurrence(s):
District(s): 13
Legislative History 7/21/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
9/8/15 Real Estate Committee deferred
9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners deferred
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, that this License
Request be deferred. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)
Page 4 of 6

 Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

15-0466
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE TO VACATE A PORTION OF LONGWOOD AVENUE
WHEREAS, under the authority granted pursuant to 70 ILCS 810/8, the Board of Commissioners for the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois, after due investigation and consideration has determined that the nature
and extent of the public use and the public interest to be subserved is such as to warrant the vacation of the street
described in the following ordinance, which street is located within the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois, and is not a part of any state of county highway.
THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners for the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County, Illinois, as follows:
1. That all that part of Longwood Avenue described as follows:
ALL THAT PART OF LONGWOOD AVENUE LYING SOUTH OF THE SOUTH RIGHT OF WAY
LINE OF 87TH STREET AND NORTH OF A LINE BEGINNING AT THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF
LOT 1 IN BLOCK 3 IN NEW BEVERLY HILLS SUBDIVISION AND RUNNING THENCE
NORTHEASTERLY, PERPENDICULAR TO THE CENTERLINE OF LONGWOOD AVENUE, TO
THE NORTHEASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF LONGWOOD AVENUE, ALL IN THE EAST
HALF OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 37 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST
OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, IN COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS.
As shown as shaded and indicated by the words "hereby vacated" on the plat hereto attached, which plat, for
greater certainty, is hereby made a part of this ordinance, be and the same is hereby vacated and closed in as much
as the same is no longer required for public use and the public interest will be subserved by such vacation.
2. In case a municipality or public service corporation has installed any public utility in or under the part of
Longwood Avenue hereby vacated, an easement is hereby reserved for the continued use, repair and
maintenance of such utility by the respective municipality or public service corporation, including but not
limited to:
A. An easement of 33 feet on each side of the existing 18-inch sewer and the existing 8-inch
watermain is hereby reserved for the City of Chicago Department of Water Management for
ingress and egress for access to said sewer and watermain facilities and appurtenances for the
purpose of maintenance, relocation, replacement and repair.
B. An Easement of 15 feet each side of the existing 18-inch sewer is hereby reserved for the City of
Department of Water Management for the purpose of maintaining, relocating, replacing,
and repairing said sewer facilities and appurtenances.
C. An easement of 15 feet each side of the existing 8-inch watermain is reserved for the City of
Chicago Department of Water Management for the purpose of maintaining, relocating, replacing,
and repairing said watermain facilities and appurtenances.
D. No additional permanent structures shall be erected over said easements with the exception of
surface improvements such as trails, roads, and parking.
E. Existing surface sewer and water structures such as manhole lids and frames shall not be
Page 5 of 6

Chicago

 covered, paved over, or otherwise blocked from access for maintenance, relocation, repair, and
investigation.
F. The Forest Preserve District of Cook County assumes any additional costs beyond normal
restoration for any physical improvements within said easements that might be damaged as a
result of sewer or water facilities maintenance, relocation, replacement and repair.
3. The Secretary of the Board, under corporate seal of the District, shall duly certify to a copy of this ordinance
and cause the same to be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois, within sixty
days after its passage and approval.
District: 11
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History 9/8/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance be
approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, to ajourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Goslin,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

Respectfully submitted,

____________________________________
____________________________________
Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://fpdcc.legistar.com

Page 6 of 6

 