AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Tuesday, July 10, 2012, 10:00 A.M.
**************************

PRESIDENT
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
ITEM #1
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 27, 2012 from
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
per the Regional Transportation authority Act, 70 ILCS 3615/4.10 and per the request of the Chicago
Transit Authority, authorization is hereby requested to enter into and execute an intergovernmental
agreement between the County of Cook, the City of Chicago and the Chicago Transit Authority, pursuant
to which the City of Chicago agrees to tender $3,000,000.00 of the City's motor fuel tax funds to the
Chicago Transit Authority and Cook County agrees to tender to the Chicago Transit Authority
$2,000,000.00 from Cook County's motor fuel tax funds for public transportation purposes.
The proposed Intergovernmental Agreement was tendered to Cook County on June 26, 2012 by the
Chicago Transit Authority and has been approved and executed by both the Chicago Transit Authority
and the City of Chicago. The Agreement notes that the both the City of Chicago and Cook County agree
to tender its agreed contribution to the Chicago Transit Authority prior to December 31, 2012.
It is hereby requested that that the Cook County Board President be authorized to execute the
Intergovernmental Agreement and that the Cook County Comptroller be authorized to tender the funds to
the Chicago Transit Authority in accordance with the terms of the Intergovernmental Agreement.
This agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,000,000.00.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #2
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF COOK COUNTY MEDICAL EXAMINER
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38, Article VI, Division
1, Section 38-112 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

 page 2
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

PRESIDENT continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
Sec. 38-112. Qualifications and appointment.
(a)
The Medical Examiner must be a physician licensed by the State of Illinois to practice
medicine in all its branches and must hold a certificate from the American Board of Pathology in both
Forensic Pathology and Anatomic Pathology.
(b)
The Medical Examiner shall be appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners. The Medical Examiner, once
so approved by the Board, shall serve for a term of five years. This notwithstanding, the Medical
Examiner may be removed by a written request of the President to the Board of Commissioners upon a
claim of negligence, malfeasance, misfeasance, immoral, illegal or unethical conduct or failure to
properly execute the duties of such position, accompanied by a certification that such request is not being
made pursuant to any considerations prohibited by the Shakman Consent Decree and subject to a hearing
and an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Commissioners. Upon expiration of
said term, the President may reappoint the Medical Examiner to a subsequent term in the manner set forth
aforesaid. In case of a vacancy in the office of the Medical Examiner, the vacancy shall be filled in the
manner set forth aforesaid for the unexpired part of the term. For purposes of this section, the term of
office of the current Medical Examiner shall be deemed to have commenced on December 6, 2010. In
case of a vacancy in the Medical Examiner position, the vacancy shall be filled in the manner set forth
aforesaid.

PRESIDENT
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
PROPOSED GRANT AWARDS
ITEM #3
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 19, 2012 from
MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director,
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $153,405.00 from the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency (IEMA) for the Federal Fiscal Year 2009 Homeland Security Grant,
Regional Catastrophic Preparedness Grant Program (RCPGP) which provides funding to hire four
regional planners to assist the Regional Catastrophic Planning Team (RCPT) with the development of
capabilities/resource assessments and plans to aid the efficient deployment of critical assets and mass
evacuation efforts during a catastrophic event.

 page 3
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

PRESIDENT
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT continued
PROPOSED GRANT AWARDS continued
ITEM #3 cont’d
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $153,405.00. Funding period: July 1, 2012 through July
31, 2013.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
*****
ITEM #4
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 19, 2012 from
MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director,
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $153,405.00 from the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency (IEMA) for the Federal Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Grant,
Regional Catastrophic Preparedness Grant Program (RCPGP) which provides funding to hire four
regional planners to assist the Regional Catastrophic Planning Team (RCPT) with the development of
capabilities/resource assessments and plans to aid the efficient deployment of critical assets and mass
evacuation efforts during a catastrophic event.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $153,405.00. Funding period: July 1, 2012 through July
31, 2013.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
*****
ITEM #5
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 14, 2012 from
MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director,
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $29,830.21 from the U.S. Department of
Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Bulletproof Vest Partnership grant which provides funding to
reimburse up to fifty percent of the cost of National Institute of Justice (NIJ) compliant armored vests
purchased or replaced by Cook County government.

 page 4
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

PRESIDENT
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT continued
PROPOSED GRANT AWARDS continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
This grant requires that Cook County match fifty percent of the funds awarded. The cash match consists
of a portion of the cost to procure armored vests.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $29,830.21. Grant Award:
through August 31, 2013. (Various-320 Accounts).

$29,830.21. Funding period: April 1, 2011

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
PROPOSED CONTRACT
ITEM #6
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 2, 2012 from
MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director,
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
and
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with
Systems Solutions, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois, for the purchase of incident management software.
Reason:

The Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management received Homeland
Security grant funding for the purchase of incident management software that will be used by
various Cook County agencies and partners to assist in ensuring a common operating picture
among key county stakeholders during various events. This software system was selected as a
collaborative solution between the State of Illinois, Cook County and the City of Chicago, and
was successfully deployed in a trial run during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Summit. Approval of this contract will allow for the County to be able to share pertinent
information throughout the County and also with City and State partners during emergency
incidents and large scale events, further enhancing cooperation and improving collaboration to
ensure the safety and security of first responders and residents.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Funded Amount: $1,687,469.00. (769-579 Account).
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 page 5
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #7
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
JOHN A. FRITCHEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL TO THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, during the FY2011 Budget deliberations, an amendment was introduced and approved by
the Cook County Board to create two Legislative Counsel positions and one Administrative Support
position; and
WHEREAS, the impetus for creating these positions was to assist the Board of Commissioners in
creating, analyzing and when called upon, to opine on legislation created by a single or multiple members
intended for presentation to the entire County Board; and
WHEREAS, said Legislative Counsel positions were to be completely independent of the Executive
branch and of any other elected official, including the Office of the State’s Attorney, in order to avoid a
conflict of interest when reviewing or opining on legislation as well as to function on behalf of and
exclusively in the best interest of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; and
WHEREAS, although the three Legislative Counsel positions created during the FY2011 were reduced
to one during the FY2012 budget, the underlying need for the Legislative Counsel function persists; and
WHEREAS, despite the remaining Legislative Counsel position being fully funded, it has yet to be filled;
and
WHEREAS, it is also prudent to establish the qualifications, mission and duties of said Legislative
Counsel.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
50 Libraries, Article I, Legislative Reference Services, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 50-1. Title.
This article shall be known as the "Legislative Reference Services Act" and may be cited as such.

 page 6
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #7 cont’d
Sec. 50-2. Recitals.
The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook find that all of the recitals
contained in the preambles to this article are full, true and correct and do incorporate them into this article
by this reference.
Sec. 50-3. Public purpose.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose of this article is to assist the Board and
President in the research and drafting of amendments, ordinances and resolutions for consideration before
the Board; ensure that ordinances and resolutions prepared are accurate in form, structure and uniformity;
maintain a legislative library and make certain that the County's Code is updated accurately.
Sec. 50-4. Director, staff and duties.
(a)
The President shall appoint the Legislative Reference Director who shall be responsible
for assisting the Board and President in the research and drafting of amendments, ordinances and
resolutions for consideration before the Board; ensure that ordinances and resolutions prepared are
accurate in form, structure and uniformity; maintain a legislative library and make certain that the
County's Code is updated accurately.
(b)
The Legislative Reference Director shall serve under the Executive Law Librarian and
have access to Cook County Law Library Research Assistants and Staff as needed and directed.
(c)
The Executive Law Librarian shall provide assistance, materials and research materials as
needed for use by the Legislative Reference Director.
(d)
The Legislative Reference Director shall notify the Clerk of the Board that the ordinances
and resolutions prepared are accurate in form, structure and uniformity.
Sec. 50-5. Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners, qualifications, mission and duties.
(a)
The Legislative Counsel shall be appointed by the President of the Board of
Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners and shall serve until removed
by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners. In case of a vacancy in the
office of the Legislative Counsel, the vacancy shall be filled in the manner set forth aforesaid.
(b)
The Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners must be an attorney admitted to
practice law in the State of Illinois and knowledgeable in some or all of the following: political science;
parliamentary practice; legislative procedure; and the methods of research, statutory revision and
legislative drafting.

 page 7
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #7 cont’d
(c)
The mission of the Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners is to assist the
Board in the development of sound public policy, ensure the integrity of the legislative process, and
preserve the legislative branch in its proper constitutional role in county government. The duties of the
Legislative Counsel shall be as follows:
Provide legal and policy review of current law and proposed legislation.
Prepare legal opinions.
Provide legal advice and research.
Draft and review legislation.
(d)
The Legislative Counsel shall have access to Cook County Law Library Research
Assistants and Staff as needed and directed.
(e)
The Executive Law Librarian shall provide assistance, materials and research materials as
needed for use by the Legislative Counsel.
Sec. 50-56. Confidentiality.
Documents, research and ordinance material submitted to the Legislative Reference Director or the
Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners shall be confidential and publication shall not be
issued without the consent of the requestor.
Sec. 50-67. Rules and regulations.
The Legislative Reference Director shall promulgate rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of
this Act.
Sec. 50-78. Effective date.
This article shall take effect immediately upon passage.
Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective upon passage.
CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEM #8
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-108(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk
of the Board.

 page 8
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

COMMISSIONERS continued
COMMITTEE REPORTS
ITEM #9
Finance Subcommittee on Labor ............................................................................ Meeting of July 10, 2012

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations ......................................................... Meeting of July 10, 2012

Rules and Administration ....................................................................................... Meeting of July 10, 2012

Finance.................................................................................................................... Meeting of July 10, 2012

Zoning and Building ............................................................................................... Meeting of July 10, 2012

 page 9
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
ITEM #10
Transmitting a Communication from
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS, Chief Executive Officer,
Cook County Health & Hospitals System
requesting approval of "Amendment 2 to the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Cook County
Health & Hospitals System, Cook County Board of Commissioners, and the Illinois Department of
Healthcare and Family Services." This intergovernmental agreement (IGA) amendment will permit
implementation of several key components of the "early expansion" Section 1115 Medicaid Waiver
proposal currently under review by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The original
IGA being amended was approved by the System Board in March, 2009, and was amended ("Amendment
1") in February, 2011 and by the County Board on April 15, 2009 and March 15, 2011, respectively.
Specifically, Amendment 2:
1. Permits the System to seek reimbursement for services rendered by community partner providers
for waiver enrollees;
2. Specifies a process by which the System will be reimbursed monthly by a "per member per
month (PMPM) methodology for waiver enrollees;
3. Modifies the section wherein the System will reimburse the State of Illinois for "onsite"
enrollment office expenses, and other costs related to waiver implementation; and
4. Permits data sharing between the Department of Healthcare and Family Services HFS and the
System;
The provisions of this IGA are consistent with the requirements of HB5007, as signed into law by
Governor Quinn on June 14, 2012.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board of Directors approved the above item at its meeting
of June 29, 2012.

 page 10
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ITEM #11
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 24, 2012 from
TARIQ G. MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
respectfully submitting a Proposed Ordinance providing for the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds,
Series 2012 for your approval.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, JOHN P. DALEY, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY and
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE providing for the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series
2012, of the County of Cook, Illinois; the approval, execution and delivery of a
Master Trust Indenture and of a First Supplemental Indenture: and providing for
other matters in connection with the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois (the
“Illinois Constitution”, the County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”) is a home rule unit of local
government and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs, including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and
WHEREAS, the County may also exercise powers relating to the power to tax and to incur debt pursuant
to the Counties Code, as supplemented and amended by the Local Government Debt Reform Act of the
State of Illinois (collectively, the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the “Corporate Authorities”) has not adopted
any ordinance, resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code provisions which restrict or limit
the exercise of the home rule powers of the County in the issuance of sales tax revenue bonds for
corporate purposes or which otherwise provide any special rules or procedures for the exercise of such
powers; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the inhabitants of the County and necessary for the welfare of the
government and affairs of the County to provide for financing surface transportation and highway
improvements, including, but not limited to, arterial street and highway construction and resurfacing,
bridge and other structural improvements and repairs, traffic signal modernization, new traffic signal
installation and median construction (collectively, the “Series 2012 Project”); and
WHEREAS, the specific transportation and highway improvement projects initially constituting the
Series 2012 Project are as set forth on Exhibit A to this Ordinance; and

 page 11
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
WHEREAS, the costs of the Series 2012 Project are estimated to be not less than One Hundred Million
Dollars ($100,000,000); and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that it is advisable and necessary to authorize the
issuance of County of Cook, Illinois, Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012 (the “Series 2012 Bonds”)
for the following purposes: (i) paying a portion of the costs of the Series 2012 Project; (ii) capitalizing
interest payable on the Series 2012 Bonds to the extent determined to be necessary as provided herein;
(iii) funding a debt service reserve fund for the Series 2012 Bonds to the extent determined to be
necessary as provided herein; and (iv) paying the expenses of issuing the Series 2012 Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the County, by virtue of its constitutional home rule powers and all laws applicable thereto
has the power to issue the Series 2012 Bonds and such borrowing is for a proper public purpose and in the
public interest; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined that in connection with the issuance of the Series
2012 Bonds it is advisable and necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of a master trust
indenture (the “Master Indenture”), and one or more supplemental trust indenture (collectively, the “First
Supplemental Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, while the Series 2012 Bonds will be secured by and payable from Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues, as defined and described in the Master Indenture, the County expects to use moneys allotted to
the County from the State Motor Fuel Tax Fund, as provided in Section 8 of the Motor Fuel Tax Law (35
ILCS 505/1 et seq, as amended) (the “County Motor Fuel Tax Revenues”), to reimburse itself for all or
portions of such Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as are applied to pay debt service on the Series 2012 Bonds,
with such reimbursement subject to approval by the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”)
pursuant to the provisions of Division 7 of Article 5 of the Illinois Highway Code (605 ILCS 1/1-101 et
seq, as amended); and
WHEREAS, the County wishes to request approval from IDOT to apply County Motor Fuel Tax
Revenues for the purposes described in the prior preamble.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook,
Illinois, as follows:

 page 12
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1.
Findings. The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals contained in the
preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct and do hereby incorporate them into this Ordinance
by this reference. It is hereby found and determined that the Corporate Authorities have been authorized
by law to issue the Series 2012 Bonds to pay the costs of the Series 2012 Project. It is hereby found and
determined that such borrowing of money pertains to the government and affairs of the County, is
necessary for the welfare of the government and affairs of the County, is for a proper public purpose or
purposes and is in the public interest, and is authorized pursuant to the Act; and these findings and
determinations shall be deemed conclusive. The issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds is authorized by the
Illinois Constitution and the Act and the Series 2012 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Illinois
Constitution and the Act.
Section 2.

Issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds.

(a)
There shall be authorized the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of not to exceed One Hundred Twenty-five Million Dollars ($125,000,000) plus an amount equal
to the amount of any original issue discount used in the marketing of the Series 2012 Bonds (not to
exceed ten percent (10%) of the principal amount thereof) for the purposes described in the preambles to
this Ordinance. The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued from time to time in said aggregate principal
amount, or such lesser aggregate principal amount as may be determined by the Chief Financial Officer of
the County (it being hereby expressly provided that in the event of a vacancy in the office of Chief
Financial Officer or the absence or temporary or permanent incapacity of the Chief Financial Officer, the
officer so designated by the President shall be authorized to act in the capacity of the Chief Financial
Officer for all purposes of this Ordinance). Each of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be designated “Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2012”, with such additions, modifications or revisions as shall be determined to
be necessary by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale and having any other authorized
features determined by the Chief Financial Officer as desirable to be reflected in the title of the Series
2012 Bonds.
(b)
The Bonds shall be issued and secured pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Master
Trust Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture but within the limitations prescribed in this Ordinance.
The Master Trust Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture are both to be entered into between the
County and such trustee having its principal corporate trust office located within the County (the
“Trustee”) as shall be selected by the President or the Chief Financial Officer. The President and the
Chief Financial Officer are each hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Master Trust Indenture, and
the First Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the County, such Master Trust Indenture to be in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and such First Supplemental Indenture to be in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C and each is made a part hereof and hereby approved
with such changes therein as shall be approved by the President or Chief Financial Officer executing the
same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval and the Corporate
Authorities’ approval of any changes or revisions therein from the form attached hereto. All capitalized
terms used in this Ordinance without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the
Master Trust Indenture, or the First Supplemental Indenture. The President and the Chief Financial
Officer are each hereby authorized to act as an Authorized Officer for the purposes provided in the Master
Trust Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture.

 page 13
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(c)
The Master Trust Indenture shall set forth such covenants with respect to the imposition
and application of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as shall be deemed necessary by the Chief Financial
Officer in connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be executed
by the officers of the County and prepared in the form as provided in the First Supplemental Indenture,
with such changes therein as shall be approved by the President or the Chief Financial Officer executing
the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval and the Corporate
Authorities’ approval of any changes or revisions therein from the form attached thereto.
(d)
The principal of the Series 2012 Bonds shall become due and payable on or before the
later of: (i) November 15, 2042 or (ii) the date which 30 years after the date of issuance of the Series
2012 Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be dated no earlier than August 1, 2012 and not later than the
date of issuance thereof, as shall be provided in the First Supplemental Indenture (any such date for any
Bonds being the “Dated Date”). The Series 2012 Bonds that are Current Interest Bonds shall bear interest
at a rate or rates not to exceed seven percent (7%) per annum as determined by the Chief Financial
Officer at the time of the sale thereof. The Series 2012 Bonds that are Capital Appreciation Bonds or
Capital Appreciation and Income Bonds shall have yields to maturity (as defined below) not to exceed
seven percent (7%) per annum as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof.
Each Series 2012 Bond that is a Capital Appreciation Bond or a Capital Appreciation and Income Bond
shall bear interest from its date at the rate per annum compounded semiannually on each May 15 and
November 15, commencing on such May 15 or November 15 as determined by the Chief Financial
Officer at the time of sale thereof that will produce the yield to maturity identified therein until the
maturity date thereof (the “Yield to Maturity”). Interest on the Series 2012 Bonds that are Capital
Appreciation Bonds shall be payable only at the respective maturity dates thereof. Interest on the Series
2012 Bonds that are Capital Appreciation and Interest Bonds shall be payable only on Interest Payment
Dates occurring after the Interest Commencement Date.
(e)
The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued as Fixed Rate or Variable Rate Bonds as provided
in the First Supplemental Indenture, all as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the
sale thereof. Interest rates on Variable Rate Bonds shall be established as provided in the definition of
Variable Rate Bonds in the Master Trust Indenture and specified Series 2012 Bonds issued as Variable
Rate Bonds may bear interest at rates that differ from the rates borne by other Series 2012 Bonds issued
as Variable Rate Bonds and may have different optional and mandatory tender and purchase provisions.
Any Series 2012 Bond that initially bears interest at a Variable Rate may thereafter bear such other
interest rate or rates as may be established in accordance with the provisions of the related supplemental
indenture.

 page 14
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(f)
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the County,
in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressed as a
percentage of the principal amount of Series 2012 Bonds that are Current Interest Bonds being redeemed
and expressed as a percentage of the Accreted Amount of Series 2012 Bonds that are Capital
Appreciation Bonds being redeemed) not to exceed one hundred three percent (103%), plus, in the case of
Series 2012 Bonds that are Current Interest Bonds, accrued interest to the date of redemption, all as shall
be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof. Certain of the Series 2012
Bonds may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date fixed for
redemption, as determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof; provided that the
Series 2012 Bonds shall reach final maturity not later than the date set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
(g)
Each Series 2012 Bond that is a Current Interest Bond shall bear interest (computed upon
the basis of a three hundred sixty (360) day year of twelve (12) thirty (30) day months) payable on the
first days of May and November of each year, commencing on such May 1 and November 1 as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof.
(h)
The Series 2012 Bonds may be issued in either certificated or book-entry only form as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer. In connection with the issuance of Series 2012 Bonds in
book-entry only form, the Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver a representation
letter to the book-entry depository selected by the Chief Financial Officer in substantially the form
previously used in connection with obligations issued by the County in book-entry form.
Section 3.

Sale of the Series 2012 Bonds; Bond Order; Financing Team; Execution of
Documents Authorized; Undertakings; Offering Materials; Credit Facilities; ISDA
Documents.

(a)
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell all or any portion of the Series
2012 Bonds to the Underwriters described in Section 3(c) below, from time to time, and in one or more
series, on such terms as he or she may deem to be in the best interests of the County; provided that the
Series 2012 Bonds shall not be sold at a purchase price that is less than ninety-eight percent (98%) of the
par amount of the Series 2012 Bonds (but exclusive of any net original issue discount used in the
marketing of the Series 2012 Bonds, which shall not exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof), plus
accrued interest, if any, on the Series 2012 Bonds from their Dated Date to the date of their issuance.
Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, or any maturity or
maturities thereof, at a price or prices in excess of the principal amount thereof.

 page 15
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(b)
All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as (i) bonds the interest paid and received
thereon is excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) (except to the extent that such interest is
taken into account in computing an adjustment used in determining the alternative minimum tax for
certain corporations) (“Tax-Exempt Bonds”); or (ii) bonds the interest paid and received thereon is not
excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under the Code
(“Taxable Bonds”). The Chief Financial Officer may elect to use such title or designation as he or she
shall deem appropriate to reflect the federal tax status of interest paid and received with respect to the
Series 2012 Bonds as either Tax-Exempt or Taxable.
(c)
The selection of the following party or parties in the capacity as indicated is hereby
expressly approved in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series 2012 Bonds:
Capacity

Party or Parties

Senior Manager
Co-Senior Manager
Co-Managers

Wells Fargo Bank, N. A.
Rice Financial Products
Ramirez & Co., Inc.
JP Morgan Securities LLC
BMO Capital Markets
PNC Capital Markets LLC
George K. Baum & Company
Mayer Brown LLP
Charity & Associates P.C.
A.C. Advisory, Inc.
Ungaretti & Harris LLP
Greene and Letts

Bond Counsel
Co-Bond Counsel
Financial Advisor
Underwriters’ Counsel
Co-Underwriters’ Counsel

The President and the Chief Financial Officer are hereby expressly authorized and directed to select the
Trustee, their selection thereof to constitute approval by the Corporate Authorities without further official
action by or direction from the Corporate Authorities. The Trustee shall be a bank or corporate trust
company having fiduciary powers.

 page 16
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(d)
Subsequent to the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the Chief Financial Officer shall file in
the office of the County Clerk a Bond Order, with a copy of the executed Master Trust Indenture and the
First Supplemental Indenture each attached and directed to the Corporate Authorities identifying: (i) the
aggregate principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds sold and the purchase price at which the Series 2012
Bonds were sold; (ii) the principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds maturing and subject to mandatory
redemption in each year; (iii) the optional redemption provisions applicable to the Series 2012 Bonds; (iv)
the interest rate or rates payable on the Series 2012 Bonds; (v) the amount of the Series 2012 Bonds being
sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds, Capital Appreciation and Interest Bonds or Current Interest Bonds;
(vi) the amount of Series 2012 Bonds being sold as Variable Rate Bonds; (vii) the Dated Date of the
Series 2012 Bonds; (viii) the identity of any municipal bond insurer and of any provider of a debt service
reserve fund surety bond; (ix) the identity of any provider of a Credit Facility; (x) the federal income tax
status of the Series 2012 Bonds are either Tax Exempt or Taxable; (xi) the terms of any Qualified Swap
Agreement, including the identify of any Swap Provider; (xii) the identity of any remarketing agent;
(xiii) the information regarding the title and designation of the Series 2012 Bonds; together with (xiv) any
other matter authorized by this Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of
sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, and thereafter the Series 2012 Bonds so sold shall be duly prepared and
executed in the form and manner provided herein and delivered to the respective Underwriters in
accordance with the terms of sale.
(e)
The President, the Chief Financial Officer or any other officer, official or employee of the
County so designated by a written instrument signed by the President or the Chief Financial Officer and
filed with the Trustee (a “Designated Officer”) are hereby authorized to execute such documents, with
appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Series 2012 Bonds as authorized by this
Ordinance and such other revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine
are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, to effect the issuance and
delivery and maintenance of the status of the Series 2012 Bonds, including but not limited to:
(i)

the contract of purchase (the “Purchase Contract”) by and between the County
and the Underwriters, which Purchase Contract shall be in form acceptable to the
Chief Financial Officer and as customarily entered into by the County;

(ii)

the continuing disclosure undertaking (the “Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking”), as approved by the Chief Financial Officer to effect compliance
with Rule 15c2-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with such revisions as are deemed
appropriate to reflect the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds as bonds secured by
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues;

(iii)

such certification, tax returns and documentation as may be required by Bond
Counsel, including, specifically, a tax agreement, to render their opinion as to the
Tax Exempt status of Series 2012 Bonds; and

 page 17
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(iv)

the execution thereof by such Designated Officers is hereby deemed conclusive
evidence of approval thereof with such changes, additions, insertions, omissions
or deletions as such officers may determine, with no further official action of or
direction by the Corporate Authorities.

(f) When the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed and delivered on behalf of the
County, it will be binding on the County and the officers, agents, and employees of the County, and the
same are hereby authorized and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of such Continuing Disclosure
Undertaking as executed and delivered. Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the sole remedies
for failure to comply with any Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial
owner of any Series 2012 Bond to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order, to cause to the
County to comply with its obligations thereunder.
(g) Offering Materials. The preparation, use and distribution of a preliminary official statement
and an official statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds are hereby authorized
and approved. The President and Chief Financial Officer are each hereby authorized to execute and
deliver an official statement relating to the sale and issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds on behalf of the
County, and in substantially the form previously used by the County with such revisions as the President
or the Chief Financial Officer shall determine are necessary or required in connection with the sale of the
Series 2012 Bonds.
(h)
In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, if determined by the President or
the Chief Financial Officer to be in the best financial interest of the County, the Chief Financial Officer is
authorized to procure one (1) or more municipal bond insurance policies covering all or a portion of the
Series 2012 Bonds and to procure one (1) or more debt service reserve fund surety bonds for deposit into
the Series 2012 Debt Service Reserve Subaccount.
(i)
In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized to obtain a Credit Facility with one or more financial institutions. The
President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to enter into a reimbursement agreement and
to execute and issue a promissory note in connection with the provisions of each Credit Facility. Any
Credit Facility and any reimbursement agreement shall be in substantially the form of the credit facilities
and reimbursement agreements previously entered into by the County in connection with the sale of
general obligation bonds or notes, but with such revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial
Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the President or the Chief
Financial Officer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions. The annual
fee paid to any financial institution that provides a Credit Facility shall not exceed two percent (2.00%) of
the average principal amount of such Series 2012 Bonds outstanding during such annual period. The final
form of reimbursement agreement entered into by the County with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds shall
be attached to the Bond Order filed with the County Clerk pursuant to this Section. Any promissory or
similar note delivered in connection with any such reimbursement agreement shall mature not later than
the final maturity date of the Bonds and each such promissory or similar note shall bear interest at a rate
not exceeding 15 (fifteen) percent per annum. The President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver each such reimbursement agreement.

 page 18
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(j)
In connection with the sale of the Series 2012 Bonds, the President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver from time to time one or more “Qualified Swap
Agreements” (as defined in the Master Indenture) with Swap Providers (as defined in the Master
Indenture) selected by the Chief Financial Officer. The stated aggregate notional amount under all such
agreements authorized hereunder shall not exceed the principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds issued
hereunder (net of offsetting transactions entered into by the County). Any such agreement to the extent
practicable shall be in substantially the form of either the Local Currency - Single Jurisdiction version or
the Multicurrency-Cross Border version of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement accompanied by the U.S.
Municipal Counterparty Schedule published by the International Swap Dealers Association (the “ISDA”)
or any successor form to be published by the ISDA, and in the appropriate confirmations of transactions
governed by that agreement, with such insertions, completions and modifications thereof as shall be
approved by the officer of the County executing the same, his or her execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of the Corporate Authorities’ approval of such insertions, completions and modifications
thereof. Amounts payable by the County under any such agreement (being “Swap Payments”) shall
constitute operating expenses of the County payable from any moneys, revenues, receipts, income, assets
or funds of the County available for such purpose or be payable from the sources pledged to the payment
of the Series 2012 Bonds, as the Chief Financial Officer may from time to time determine. Such amounts
shall not constitute an indebtedness of the County for which its full faith and credit is pledged. Nothing
contained in this Section shall limit or restrict the authority of the President or the Chief Financial Officer
to enter into similar agreements pursuant to prior or subsequent authorization of the Corporate
Authorities.
(k)
In connection with the sale of any Series 2012 Bonds issued as Variable Rate Bonds, the
President or the Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver a Remarketing
Agreement relating to the Series 2012 Bonds in substantially the form previously used for similar
financings of the County, with appropriate revisions in text as the President or the Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable, the execution thereof by the President or the Chief Financial
Officer to evidence the approval by the Corporate Authorities of all such revisions. The President or the
Chief Financial Officer is hereby delegated the authority to appoint a remarketing agent with respect to
the Series 2012 Bonds in the manner provided in the First Supplemental Indenture.
Section 4.
Alternative Allocation of Proceeds of Series 2012 Bonds. The County by its Corporate
Authorities reserves the right, as it becomes necessary from time to time, to change the purposes of
expenditure of the Series 2012 Bonds, to change priorities, to revise cost allocations between expenditures
and to substitute projects, in order to meet current needs of the County; subject, however, to the
provisions of the Act and to the tax covenants of the County relating to the Tax Exempt status of interest
on Tax Exempt Bonds and further subject to the provisions of the Master Indenture, and the First
Supplemental Indenture regarding amendments thereto. To the extent any action of the County described
in the prior sentence is proposed to be taken with respect to the proceeds of Tax Exempt Bonds, it shall be
conditioned on receipt by the County of an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect that such action shall
not cause the interest on such Bonds to become subject to federal income taxation.

 page 19
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 5.
Reimbursement. None of the proceeds of the Tax Exempt Bonds will be used to pay,
directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, for an expenditure that has been paid by the County prior to the
date hereof except architectural, engineering costs or construction costs incurred prior to commencement
of the Series 2012 Project or expenditures for which an intent to reimburse was properly declared under
Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2. This Ordinance is in itself a declaration of official intent under
Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2 as to all costs of the Series 2012 Project paid after the date hereof
and prior to issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds.
Section 6.
Tax Covenant. With respect to any Tax Exempt Bonds, the County covenants to take
any action required by the provisions of Section 148(f) of the Code in order to assure compliance with
Section 709 of the Master Indenture. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the ability of the
County to issue all or a portion of the Series 2012 Bonds as bonds the interest on which will be includable
in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under the Code if determined
by the Chief Financial Officer to be in the best interest of the County.
Section 7.
Use of County Motor Fuel Tax Revenues. The Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to submit to IDOT a request for approval by IDOT (the “IDOT Request”) of the County’s right
to apply County Motor Fuel Tax Revenues as reimbursement for all or portions of the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues as are applied to pay debt service on the Series 2012 Bonds to finance the Series 2012 Project.
This Ordinance shall constitute the resolution required by Section 5-403 of the Illinois Highway Code for
the IDOT Request. The County Superintendent of Highways (the “Superintendent”) shall submit a
certified copy of this Ordinance, together with all Exhibits, to IDOT and the Superintendent and the Chief
Financial Officer are authorized to provide IDOT with such additional documents or information as shall
be requested by IDOT in connection with the IDOT Request.
Section 8.
Performance Provisions. The President, the Chief Financial Officer, the County Clerk,
for and on behalf of the County shall be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any
and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the County under and pursuant to
this Ordinance, the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture, and the performance of all
other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Ordinance,
the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture, including but not limited to, the exercise
following the delivery date of any of the Series 2012 Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such
official of the County under this Ordinance with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds upon the initial
issuance thereof, but subject to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set
forth. The President, the Chief Financial Officer, the County Clerk and other officers, agents and
employees of the County are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the
County, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other instruments that may be
required to carry out the authority conferred by this Ordinance, the Master Indenture and the First
Supplemental Indenture or to evidence said authority.

 page 20
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 9.
Proxies. The President and the Chief Financial Officer may each designate another to act
as their respective proxy and to affix their respective signatures to, in the case of the President, each of
Series 2012 Bonds, whether in temporary or definitive form, and to any other instrument, certificate or
document required to be signed by the President or the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to this Ordinance,
the Master Indenture, and the First Supplemental Indenture. In each case, each shall send to the County
Board written notice of the person so designated by each, such notice stating the name of the person so
selected and identifying the instruments, certificates and documents which such person shall be
authorized to sign as proxy for the President and the Chief Financial Officer, respectively. A written
signature of the President or the Chief Financial Officer, respectively, executed by the person so
designated underneath, shall be attached to each notice. Each notice, with signatures attached, shall be
filed with the County Clerk. When the signature of the President is placed on an instrument, certificate or
document at the direction of the President in the specified manner, the same, in all respects, shall be as
binding on the County as if signed by the President in person. When the signature of the Chief Financial
Officer is so affixed to an instrument, certificate or document at the direction of the Chief Financial
Officer, the same, in all respects, shall be binding on the County as if signed by the Chief Financial
Officer in person.
Section 10.
This Ordinance a Contract. The provisions of this Ordinance shall constitute a contract
between the County and the registered owners of the Series 2012 Bonds, and no changes, additions or
alterations of any kind shall be made hereto, except as herein provided. This Ordinance shall be construed
in accordance with the provisions of State law without reference to its conflict of law principles.
Section 11.
Prior Inconsistent Proceedings. All ordinances, resolutions, motions or orders, or parts
thereof, in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance, are to the extent of such conflict hereby
repealed.
Section 12.
Immunity of Officers and Employees of County. No recourse shall be had for the
payment of the principal of or premium or interest on any of the Bonds or for any claim based thereon or
upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Ordinance contained against any past, present or
future elected or appointed officer, director, member, employee or agent of the County, or of any
successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the County or any successor public
corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute or constitution or by the enforcement of any
assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such elected or appointed officers,
directors, members, employees or agents as such is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition
of and consideration for the passage of this Ordinance and the issuance of such Series 2012 Bonds.
Section 13.
Passage and Approval. Presented, Passed, Approved and Recorded by the County of
Cook, Illinois, a home rule unit of government, this 24th day of July, 2012.
Section 14.

Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its enactment.

Exhibits “A”, “B” and “C” referred to in this Ordinance read as follows:

 page 21
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Exhibit A: Proposed Highway Department Capital Plan, 2012-2014
Exhibit B: Master Trust Indenture
Exhibit C: First Supplemental Trust Indenture
THIS MASTER TRUST INDENTURE dated as of [August 1], 2012 (this “Master Indenture”), by and
between the County of Cook, a home rule unit of local government organized and existing under the laws
of the State of Illinois (the “County”), and _______________, a __________ duly organized, existing
and authorized to accept and execute trusts of the character herein set out under and by virtue of the laws
of the United States of America, with its principal corporate trust office located in ________, ________,
as Trustee (the “Trustee”).
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, by virtue of Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois
(the “State”), the County is a home rule unit of local government and as such may exercise any power
and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the County deems it to be in the best interests of the inhabitants of the County and
necessary for the welfare of the government and affairs of the County to provide an alternative means of
financing various projects and purposes for the benefit of the County and its residents, including, but not
limited to, surface transportation and highway improvements, including arterial street and highway
construction and resurfacing, bridge and other structural improvements and repairs, traffic signal
modernization, new traffic signal installation and median construction; infrastructure improvements to
enhance the development of economic activity, including industrial street and corridor improvements,
commercial streetscaping, median landscaping, and hazardous building demolition; and constructing,
equipping, altering and repairing various of County facilities, including administrative offices, hospitals
and health care facilities, correctional facilities, courthouses, and fleet management facilities (collectively,
the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to an ordinance duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the County
on [July 24], 2012, the County has duly authorized this Master Indenture to issue Bonds (as hereinafter
defined) for the purpose of financing costs of the Project and paying costs related to the issuance of the
Bonds and the President and the Chief Financial Officer have appointed ___________________ to act as
Trustee under this Master Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the Bonds, when authenticated by the Trustee and issued
as in this Master Indenture provided, the valid, binding and legal obligations of the County according to
the import thereof, and to constitute this Master Indenture a valid pledge of and grant of a lien on the
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues (as hereinafter defined) to secure the payment of the principal of, premium,
if any, and interest on the Bonds have been done and performed, in due form and time, as required by
law; and

 page 22
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Master Indenture and the execution and issuance of
the Bonds, subject to the terms hereof, have in all respects been duly authorized;
GRANTING CLAUSES
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS MASTER TRUST INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
That in order to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Bonds
issued and to be issued hereunder, according to the import thereof, and the performance and observance
of each and every covenant and condition herein and in the Bonds contained, and for and in consideration
of the premises and of the acceptance by the Trustee of the trusts hereby created, and of the purchase and
acceptance of the Bonds by the respective Owners (as hereinafter defined) thereof, and for other good and
valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and for the purpose of fixing
and declaring the terms and conditions upon which the Bonds shall be issued, authenticated, delivered,
secured and accepted by all persons who shall from time to time be or become Owners thereof, the
County does hereby pledge and grant a lien upon the following Trust Estate to the Trustee and its
successors in trust and assigns, to the extent provided in this Master Indenture:
(a)

The Pledged Sales Tax Revenues;

(b)
All moneys and securities and earnings thereon in all Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
established pursuant to this Master Indenture; and
(c)
Any and all other moneys, securities and property furnished from time to time to the
Trustee by the County or on behalf of the County or by any other Persons (as hereinafter defined) to be
held by the Trustee under the terms of this Master Indenture.
BUT IN TRUST NEVERTHELESS, for the equal and proportionate benefit and security of the Bonds
issued and to be issued hereunder and secured by this Master Indenture, including any Bonds hereafter
issued, without preference, priority or distinction as to participation in the lien, benefit and protection
hereof of any one Bond over any other or from the others by reason of priority in the issue or negotiation
thereof or by reason of the date or dates of maturity thereof, or for any other reason whatsoever (except as
expressly provided in this Master Indenture), so that each and all of such Bonds shall have the same right,
lien and privilege under this Master Indenture and shall be equally secured hereby, with the same effect as
if the same had all been made, issued and negotiated upon the delivery hereof (all except as expressly
provided in this Master Indenture, as aforesaid).
AND IN TRUST FURTHER, for the benefit and security of the Junior Lien Obligations (as
hereinafter defined) to the extent provided herein and in the Supplemental Indentures executed and
delivered from time to time authorizing the issuance of such Junior Lien Obligations.

 page 23
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that these presents are upon the condition that, if the County, or its
successors, shall well and truly pay or cause to be paid, or provide for the payment of all principal,
premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds due or to become due thereon, at the times and in the manner
stipulated therein and herein, then this Master Indenture and the rights hereby granted shall cease,
terminate and be void, but shall otherwise be and remain in full force.
AND IT IS HEREBY COVENANTED AND AGREED by and among the County, the Trustee and the
Owners from time to time of the Bonds, that the terms and conditions upon which the Bonds are to be
issued, authenticated, delivered, secured and accepted by all Persons who shall from time to time be or
become the Owners thereof, and the trusts and conditions upon which the moneys and securities hereby
pledged are to be held and disposed of, which trusts and conditions the Trustee hereby accepts, are as
follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section 101.
Definitions The following terms shall, for all purposes of this Master Indenture,
have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
“Accountant” means an independent certified public accountant or a firm of independent certified
public accountants of recognized national or regional standing (who may be the accountants who
regularly audit the books and accounts of the County) who are selected and paid by the County and who
shall not have been engaged by any Person or entity other than the County to render accounting services
with respect to the books and records of the County for the period or any portion thereof to be covered by
the accounting services to be rendered on behalf of the County.
“Accreted Amount” means, with respect to any Capital Appreciation Bonds, the amount set forth
in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds as the amount representing the initial public
offering price thereof, plus the amount of interest that has accreted on such Bonds, compounded
periodically, to the date of calculation, determined by reference to accretion tables contained in each such
Bond or contained or referred to in any Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Bonds.
The Accreted Amounts for such Bonds as of any date not stated in such tables shall be calculated by
adding to the Accreted Amount for such Bonds as of the date stated in such tables immediately preceding
the date of computation a portion of the difference between the Accreted Amount for such preceding date
and the Accreted Amount for such Bonds as of the date shown on such tables immediately succeeding the
date of calculation, apportioned on the assumption that interest accretes during any period in equal daily
amounts on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
“Additional Bonds” means Bonds authenticated and delivered on original issuance pursuant to
Section 204 hereof.

 page 24
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Adjusted Pledged Sales Tax Revenues” means for any applicable period of time, Pledged Sales
Tax Revenues adjusted to reflect any increase or decrease approved by the Board of Commissioners in the
rate at which Home Rule Sales Taxes are to be imposed and collected and either is in effect at time that
Additional Bonds are proposed to be issued in accordance with Section 204 hereof or will be in effect
subsequent to the time of such issuance but was not in effect during the period specified in Section
204(A)(1) hereof.
Annual Debt Service Requirement” means, with respect to any Fiscal Year, the aggregate of the
Interest Requirement and the Principal Requirement for such Fiscal Year.
“Authorized Denominations” means $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, or, in the case of
Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds, such other denominations as may be specified in the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance thereof.
“Authorized Officer” means the President, the Chief Financial Officer and any other officer or
employee of the County authorized to perform specific acts or duties hereunder by ordinance or resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
“Average Annual Debt Service Requirement” means, as of any date of calculation, the
mathematical mean of the Annual Debt Service Requirements for all Outstanding Bonds.
“Board of Commissioners” means the governing body of the County as from time to time
constituted.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means any bond or bonds, including the Bonds and Additional Bonds,
authenticated and delivered under and pursuant to this Master Indenture.
“Bond Insurance Policy” means the bond insurance policy and any other municipal bond new
issue insurance policy insuring and guaranteeing the payment of the principal of and interest on a Series
of Bonds or certain maturities thereof as may be provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such
Series.
“Bond Insurer” means any bond insurer of any Series of Bonds and any other Person authorized
under law to issue a Bond Insurance Policy.
“Bond Year’ means any year beginning on January 1 and ending the following December 31.
“Business Day” means any day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on
which banking institutions in the city where the principal corporate trust office of any Fiduciary is located
are authorized by law or executive order to close (and such Fiduciary is in fact closed).

 page 25
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Capital Appreciation and Income Bond” means any Bond as to which accruing interest is not
paid prior to the Interest Commencement Date specified therefor and is compounded periodically on
certain designated dates prior to the Interest Commencement Date specified therefor, all as provided in
the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Capital Appreciation and Income Bond.
“Capital Appreciation Bond” means any Bond the interest on which (i) shall be compounded
periodically on certain designated dates, (ii) shall be payable only at maturity or redemption prior to
maturity and (iii) shall be determined by subtracting from the Accreted Amount the initial public offering
price thereof, all as provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Capital
Appreciation Bond. The term “Capital Appreciation Bond” as used throughout this Master Indenture
also includes any Capital Appreciation and Income Bond prior to the Interest Commencement Date
specified therefor.
“Chief Financial Officer” means the Chief Financial Officer of the County appointed by the
President.
“Code and Regulations” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the
regulations promulgated or proposed pursuant thereto as the same may be in effect from time to time.
“Counsel’s Opinion” means an opinion signed by an attorney or firm of attorneys of recognized
standing in the area of law to which the opinion relates (which attorney may include the State’s Attorney
for the County).
“County” means the County of Cook, Illinois, a home rule unit of local government.
“County Code” means the County of Cook, Illinois Code of Ordinances (2006), as amended.
“Credit Bank” means, as to any particular Series of Bonds, the Person (other than a Bond
Insurer) providing a Credit Facility, as may be provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such
Series; provided that any Credit Bank or obligations secured by such Credit Bank must be rated in one of
the three highest rating categories (without reference to gradations such as “plus” or “minus”) by the
Rating Services then rating the Bonds.
“Credit Facility” means, as to any particular Series of Bonds, a letter of credit, a line of credit, a
guaranty, a standby bond purchase agreement or other credit or liquidity enhancement facility, other than
a Bond Insurance Policy, as may be provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series.
“Current Funds” means moneys which are immediately available in the hands of the payee at the
place of payment.

 page 26
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Current Interest Bond” means any Bond the interest on which is payable on the Interest
Payment Dates provided therefor in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bond. The term
“Current Interest Bond” as used throughout this Master Indenture also includes any Capital Appreciation
and Income Bond from and after the Interest Commencement Date specified therefor.
“DTC” means The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, as securities depository
for the Bonds.
“DTC Participant” shall mean any securities broker or dealer, bank, trust company, clearing
corporation or other organization depositing the Bonds with DTC pursuant to the book-entry only system
described in Section 203 hereof.
“Debt Service Fund” means the Debt Service Fund established in Section 502 hereof.
“Debt Service Reserve Fund” means the Debt Service Reserve Fund established in Section 502
hereof.
“Defeasance Government Obligations” means Government Obligations which are not subject to
redemption other than at the option of the holder thereof.
“Defeasance Obligations” means (i) Defeasance Government Obligations and (ii) obligations of
any state or territory of the United States or any political subdivision thereof which obligations are rated
in the highest rating category by any of the Rating Services and which obligations meet the following
requirements: (a) the obligations are not subject to redemption or the trustee therefor has been given
irrevocable instructions by the issuer thereof to call such obligations for redemption; (b) the obligations
are secured by cash or Defeasance Government Obligations that may be applied only to interest, principal
and premium payments of such obligations; (c) the principal of and interest on the Defeasance
Government Obligations (plus any cash in the escrow fund) are sufficient to meet the liabilities of the
obligations; (d) the Defeasance Government Obligations serving as security for such obligations are held
by an escrow agent or trustee; and (e) the Defeasance Government Obligations are not available to satisfy
any other claims, including those against such escrow agent or trustee.
“Depositary” means any bank, national banking association or trust company having capital
stock, surplus and retained earnings aggregating at least $10,000,000, selected by an Authorized Officer
as a depositary of moneys and securities held under the provisions of this Master Indenture, and may
include the Trustee.
“Deposit Day” means the Business Day specified in Section 504 hereof on which day a
withdrawal from the Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund and a deposit to one or more other Funds or
Accounts is required to accomplish the payments and transfers required by Section 504 of this Master
Indenture.

 page 27
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Escrow Agent” means with respect to any Bonds refunded after the date of execution and
delivery of this Master Indenture, any trust company, bank or national banking association duly appointed
for such purpose.
“Event of Default” means any event so designated and specified in Section 801 hereof.
“Excess Earnings” shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in an applicable tax regulatory
agreement or certificate.
“Fiduciary” or “Fiduciaries” means the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agents and any
Depositary, or any or all of them, as may be appropriate.
“Fiscal Year” means the period from December 1 through November 30 of the immediately
succeeding calendar year or such other twelve month period as may be designated by the Board of
Commissioners as the fiscal year of the County.
“Government Obligations” means (i) any direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and
interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, including SLGs, and
(ii) certificates of ownership of the principal of or interest on obligations of the type described in clause
(i) of this definition, (a) which obligations are held in trust by a commercial bank which is a member of
the Federal Reserve System in the capacity of a custodian; (b) the owner of which certificate is the real
party in interest and has the right to proceed directly and individually against the obligor of the underlying
obligations; and (c) for which the underlying obligations are held in safekeeping in a special account,
segregated from the custodian’s general assets, and are not available to satisfy any claim of the custodian,
any Person claiming through the custodian, or any Person to whom the custodian may be obligated.
“Home Rule Sales Tax Revenues” means, collectively for any Fiscal Year or other period of time,
all collections distributed to the County of those taxes (“Home Rule Sales Taxes”) imposed by the County
pursuant to its home rule powers as currently authorized by the Home Rule County Retailers’ Occupation
Tax Act of the State, as amended, and the Home Rule County Service Occupation Tax Act of the State, as
amended, or any successor or substitute law, ordinance or other legislation subsequently enacted (which
taxes are currently imposed by the County pursuant to Sections 74-150 et seq. and 74-190 et seq.,
respectively, of the County Code, or successor or substitute taxes therefor as provided by law in the
future.
“Initial Bonds” shall mean the first Series of Bonds (which may consist of one or more Series of
Bonds issued simultaneously hereunder) issued under this Master Indenture pursuant to a Supplemental
Indenture relating thereto.
“Interest Payment Date” means May 15 and November 15 of each year.

 page 28
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Interest Period” means the period from the date of the Bonds of any Series to and including the
day immediately preceding the first Interest Payment Date and thereafter shall mean each period from and
including an Interest Payment Date to and including the day immediately preceding the next Interest
Payment Date.
“Interest Requirement” for any Interest Period, as applied to Bonds of any Series then
Outstanding, shall mean the total of the sums that would be deemed to accrue on such Bonds during such
Interest Period if the interest on the Current Interest Bonds of such Series were deemed to accrue daily
during such year or Interest Period in equal amounts, and employing the methods of calculation set forth
(i) in Section 207(A) hereof in the case of a Qualified Swap Agreement and (ii) in subparagraphs (X) and
(Y) of Section 205(B) hereof in the cases of Optional Tender Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds; provided,
however, that interest expense shall be excluded from the determination of Interest Requirement to the
extent that such interest is to be paid (a) from the proceeds of Bonds allocable to the payment of such
interest as provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Bonds or other
available moneys or from investment (but not reinvestment) earnings thereon if such proceeds shall have
been invested in Investment Securities and to the extent such earnings may be determined precisely or (b)
from investment earnings on deposit in the Interest Sub-Account derived from the investment of moneys
on deposit therein or the transfer of investment earnings from the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the extent
any such earnings may be determined precisely. Unless the County shall otherwise provide in a
Supplemental Indenture, interest expense on Credit Facilities drawn upon to purchase but not to retire
Bonds shall not be included in the determination of the Interest Requirement; provided that any such
interest that exceeds the interest otherwise payable on such Bonds shall be included in the determination
of the Interest Requirement. If interest is not payable at a single numerical rate for the entire term of such
Bonds, then “Interest Requirement” shall have the appropriate meaning assigned thereto by the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds.
“Interest Sub-Account” means the sub-account of that name in the Debt Service Fund established
in Section 502.
“Investment Securities” means any of the following securities authorized by law as permitted
investments of County funds at the time of purchase thereof:
(i)

Government Obligations;

(ii)

bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued by any of the
following agencies: Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National
Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal Land Banks,
Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, Banks for Cooperatives,
Tennessee Valley Authority, United States Postal Service, Farmers Home
Administration, Export-Import Bank, Federal Financing Bank, Resolution Funding
Corporation and Student Loan Marketing Association;

 page 29
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(iii)

investments in a money market fund registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended (including any such money market fund sponsored by or affiliated with
any Fiduciary), comprised of any of the investments set forth in subparagraph (i) or
subparagraph (ii) above then rated in the highest rating category by the Rating Agencies
then rating the Bonds;

(iv)

negotiable or non-negotiable certificates of deposit or time deposits or other banking
arrangements issued by any bank, trust company or national banking association
(including any Fiduciary), which certificates of deposit or time deposits or other banking
arrangements shall be continuously secured or collateralized by obligations described in
subparagraphs (i), (ii) or (iii) of this definition, which obligations shall have a market
value (exclusive of accrued interest) at all times at least equal to the principal amount of
such certificates of deposit or time deposits or other banking arrangements and shall be
lodged with the Trustee, as custodian, by the bank, trust company or national banking
association issuing such certificates of deposit or time deposits or other banking
arrangements, which certificates of deposit or time deposits or other banking
arrangements acquired or entered into pursuant to this subparagraph (iv) shall be deemed
for purposes of this Master Indenture, including without limitation Section 603, to
constitute investments and not deposits;

(v)

repurchase agreements or forward purchase agreements with any bank, trust company or
national banking association (including any Fiduciary) or government bond dealer
reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York continuously secured or
collateralized by obligations described in subparagraph (i) of this definition, which
obligations shall have a market value (exclusive of accrued interest) at all times at least
equal to the amortized value of such repurchase agreements, provided such security or
collateral is lodged with and held by the Trustee or the County as title holder, as the case
may be; and

(vi)

any other investments of County funds authorized by Section 34-4 of the County Code
(or any successor or replacement provision of the County Code).

“Junior Lien Obligations” means those obligations having a claim on the Trust Estate, including
the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues, that is junior in all respects to the claim of the Bonds and are authorized
by subsequent supplemental indentures.
“Letter of Representations” means the Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations dated
[___________], between the County and DTC, as the same may from time to time be supplemented and
amended.
“Level Debt Service” means the largest amount of debt service payable in any applicable Bond
Year does not exceed the smallest amount payable in applicable Bond Year by more than $100,000.

 page 30
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Mandatory Tender Bonds” means Bonds issued under structures commonly referred to as
“medium term notes” or “put option bonds” and have provisions for the mandatory tender and purchase
thereof prior to otherwise applicable maturity or mandatory redemption dates, the extension of any stated
mandatory purchase requirements and an increase in the interest rate payable on such Bonds following
any such extension.
“Master Indenture” means this Master Trust Indenture, dated as of [August 1], 2012, by and
between the County and the Trustee, as from time to time amended and supplemented.
“Maximum Annual Debt Service Requirement” means, as of any date of calculation, the largest
Annual Debt Service Requirement occurring in the then current and all succeeding Fiscal Years.
“Optional Tender Bonds” means any Bonds with respect to which the Owners thereof have the
option to tender to the County, to any Fiduciary or to any agent thereof, all or a portion of such Bonds for
payment or purchase.
“Outstanding,” when used with reference to Bonds, means, as of any date, all Bonds theretofore
or thereupon being authenticated and delivered under this Master Indenture except:
(i)

Any Bonds cancelled by the Trustee at or prior to such date;

(ii)

Bonds (or portions of Bonds) for the payment or redemption of which moneys and/or
Defeasance Obligations, equal to the principal amount or Redemption Price thereof, as
the case may be, with interest to the date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, are
held in trust under this Master Indenture and set aside for such payment or redemption
(whether at or prior to the maturity or redemption date), provided that if such Bonds (or
portions of Bonds) are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption shall have been given
as in Article IV provided or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for
the giving of such notice;

(iii)

Bonds in lieu of or in substitution for which other Bonds shall have been authenticated
and delivered pursuant to Article III, Section 406 or Section 1106 hereof;

(iv)

Bonds deemed to have been paid as provided in Section 1201(B) hereof; and

(v)

Optional Tender Bonds deemed to have been purchased in accordance with the
provisions of the Supplemental Indenture authorizing their issuance in lieu of which other
Bonds have been authenticated and delivered under such Supplemental Indenture.

“Owner” means any Person who shall be the registered owner of any Bond or Bonds.

 page 31
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Paying Agent” means any bank, national banking association or trust company designated by an
Authorized Officer as paying agent for the Bonds of any Series, and any successor or successors
appointed by an Authorized Officer under this Master Indenture.
“Payment Date” shall mean any Interest Payment Date or Principal Payment Date.
“Person” means and includes an association, unincorporated organization, a corporation, a
partnership, a limited liability company, a joint venture, a business trust, or a government or an agency or
a political subdivision thereof, or any other public or private entity, or a natural person.
“Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund” means the Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund established in
Section 502 hereof.
“Pledged Sales Tax Revenues” means for any applicable period of time the Home Rule Sales Tax
Revenues.
“President” means the President of the Board of Commissioners.
“Principal” or “principal” means (i) with respect to any Capital Appreciation Bond, the
Accreted Amount thereof (the difference between the stated amount to be paid at maturity and the
Accreted Amount being deemed unearned interest) except as used in this Master Indenture in connection
with the authorization and issuance of Bonds and with the order of priority of payments of Bonds after an
event of default, in which case “principal” means the initial public offering price of a Capital
Appreciation Bond (the difference between the Accreted Amount and the initial public offering price
being deemed interest) but when used in connection with determining whether the Owners of the requisite
principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding have given any request, demand, authorization, direction,
notice, consent or waiver or with respect to the Redemption Price of any Capital Appreciation Bond,
“principal amount” means the Accreted Amount and (ii) with respect to the principal amount of any
Current Interest Bond, the principal amount of such Bond payable in satisfaction of a Sinking Fund
Installment, if applicable, or at maturity.
“Principal Payment Date” means any date upon which the principal of any Bond is stated to
mature or upon which the principal of any Term Bond is subject to redemption in satisfaction of a Sinking
Fund Installment; provided, however, that “Principal Payment Date” may mean, if so provided by a
Supplemental Indenture, such other date or dates as may be provided thereby or permitted therein.
“Principal Requirement” for any Fiscal Year, an amount equal to the sums that would be
scheduled to be paid or come due on such Bonds during such Fiscal Year if
(i)

the principal of the Current Interest Bonds of such Series scheduled to mature or have a
required Sinking Fund Installment during such Fiscal Year, and

 page 32
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(ii)

the Accreted Amount of the Capital Appreciation Bonds of such Series, scheduled to
become due or have a required Sinking Fund Installment during such Fiscal Year,
determined by employing the methods of calculation set forth in subparagraphs (X) and
(Y) of Section 205(B) hereof in the cases of Variable Rate Bonds and Optional Tender
Bonds, were each deemed to accrue daily during such Fiscal Year in equal amounts;
provided, however, that an amount of principal shall be excluded from the determination
of Principal Requirement to the extent that such amount is to be paid (a) from the
proceeds of Bonds allocable to the payment of such principal as provided in the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Bonds or other available
moneys or from the investment (but not reinvestment) earnings thereon if such proceeds
or other moneys shall have been invested in Investment Securities and to the extent such
earnings may be determined precisely or (b) from investment earnings on deposit in the
Principal Sub-Account derived from the investment of moneys on deposit therein or the
transfer of investment earnings from the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the extent any
such earnings may be determined precisely.

“Principal Sub-Account” means the sub-account of that name in the Debt Service Fund
established in Section 502 hereof.
“Project” shall have the same meaning as set forth in the preambles to this Master Indenture and
also means any other lawful project or expenditures to be financed with the proceeds of a Series of Bonds
issued under this Master Indenture as determined by the County and set forth in a Supplemental Indenture
authorizing such Series of Bonds.
“Project Fund” means the Project Fund established in Section 503(A) hereof.
“Purchase Price” means the purchase price established in any Supplemental Indenture
authorizing Optional Tender Bonds or Mandatory Tender Bonds as the purchase price to be paid for such
Bonds upon an optional or mandatory tender of all or a portion of such Bonds.
“Qualified Swap Agreement” means an agreement between the County and a Swap Provider
under which the County agrees to pay the Swap Provider an amount calculated at an agreed-upon rate or
index based upon a notional amount and the Swap Provider agrees to pay the County for a specified
period of time an amount calculated at an agreed-upon rate or index based upon such notional amount or
pursuant to which the County purchases a cap or a collar on any interest rate to be paid by the County on
Variable Rate Bonds, where each Rating Service (if such Rating Service also rates the unsecured
obligations of the Swap Provider or its guarantor) has assigned to the unsecured obligations of the Swap
Provider, or of the Person who guarantees the obligation of the Swap Provider to make its payments to the
County, as of the date the swap agreement is entered into, a rating that is within the two highest rating
classifications established by such Rating Service (without regard to interim gradations within a rating
classification, such as plus or minus or any interim numerical gradations).

 page 33
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Rating Services” means each and every one of the nationally recognized rating services that
shall have assigned ratings to any Bonds Outstanding as requested by or on behalf of the County, and
which ratings are then currently in effect.
“Record Date” means with respect to the Bonds, the 15th day (whether or not a Business Day)
preceding each interest payment date and, with respect to any other Series of Bonds, such other day as
may be determined in the applicable Supplemental Indenture.
“Redemption Price” means, with respect to any Bond, the Principal thereof plus the applicable
premium, if any, payable upon the date fixed for redemption.
“Refunding Bonds” means all Bonds hereinafter issued pursuant to Section 205 hereof.
“Registrar” means any bank, national banking association or trust company appointed-by an
Authorized Officer under this Master Indenture and designated as registrar for the Bonds of any Series,
and its successor or successors.
“Remarketing Agent” means any placement or remarketing agent at the time serving as such in
connection with any Series of the Bonds.
“Remarketing Agreement” means any agreement between the County and a Remarketing Agent
pursuant to which the Remarketing Agent under certain circumstances will remarket any series of the
Bonds.
“Serial Bonds” means the Bonds of a Series which shall be stated to mature in annual
installments.
“Series” means all of the Bonds designated as a series and authenticated and delivered on
original issuance in a simultaneous transaction, and any Bonds thereafter authenticated and delivered in
lieu of or in substitution for such Bonds pursuant to Article III or Sections 406 or 1106.
“Series Debt Service Reserve Insurance Policy” shall mean the insurance policy, surety bond or
other evidence of insurance, if any, deposited to the credit of a Series Sub-Account within the Debt
Service Reserve Fund in lieu of or in partial substitution for cash or securities on deposit therein, which
policy, bond or the evidence of insurance constitutes an unconditional senior obligation of the issuer
thereof. The issuer thereof shall be a municipal bond insurer whose obligations ranking pari passu with
its obligations under such policy, bond or other evidence of insurance are rated at the time of deposit of
such policy, bond or other evidence of insurance to the credit of such Subaccount within the Debt Service
Reserve Fund in any of the three highest rating categories (without regard to gradations within any such
category) of any applicable Rating Agencies then rating the Bonds.

 page 34
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
“Series Debt Service Reserve Letter of Credit” shall mean the irrevocable, transferable letter or
line of credit, if any, deposited to the credit of a Series Sub-Account within the Debt Service Reserve
Fund in lieu of or in partial substitution for cash or securities on deposit therein, which letter or line of
credit constitutes an unconditional senior obligation of the issuer thereof. The issuer of such letter or line
of credit shall be a banking association, bank or trust company or branch thereof whose senior debt
obligations rank pari passu with its obligations under such letter or line of credit are rated at the time of
deposit of the letter or line of credit to the credit of such Subaccount within the Debt Service Reserve
Fund in any of the three highest rating categories (without regard to gradations within any such category)
of any applicable Rating Agencies.
“Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement” shall mean the amount, if any, required to be on
deposit in a Series Sub-Account in the Debt Service Reserve Fund specified in the Supplemental
Indenture governing the issuance of and securing the related Series of Bonds.
“Sinking Fund Installment” means with respect to the Bonds, each principal amount of Bonds
scheduled to be redeemed pursuant to Section 403 hereof, and (ii) with respect to any other Series of
Bonds, each principal amount of Bonds scheduled to be redeemed through sinking fund redemption
provisions by the application of amounts on deposit in the Principal Sub-Account, established pursuant to
Section 202(A)(4)(h) hereof.
“SLGs” means United States Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness, Notes and Bonds -State and
Local Government Series.
“State” means the State of Illinois.
“Supplemental Indenture” means any Supplemental Indenture authorized pursuant to Article X
hereof.
“Swap Provider” means any counterparty with whom the County enters into a Qualified Swap
Agreement.
“Term Bonds” means the Bonds of a Series other than Serial Bonds, each of which shall be stated
to mature on a specified date and which may have one or more Sinking Fund Installments on dates prior
to maturity.
“Trustee” means ________________, ________, ________, and any successor or successors
appointed under this Master Indenture as hereinafter provided.
“Trust Estate” means the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and all other property pledged to the
Trustee pursuant to this Master Indenture.

 page 35
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

“Variable Rate Bonds” means any Bonds the interest rate on which is not established at the time
of issuance thereof at a single numerical rate for the entire term thereof. Variable Rate Bonds: (i) may be
issued bearing interest at a variable interest rate or rates, as more fully set forth in the related
Supplemental Indenture, including but not limited to variable interest rates that are reset daily or weekly
by the Remarketing Agent and variable interest rates commonly referred to as “flexible”, “adjustable” and
“commercial paper” (including under circumstances in which specified Bonds of a Series bear interest at
rates that differ from the rates borne by other Bonds of the Series and have different accrual, mandatory
tender and purchase provisions and default and remedy provisions) (herein collectively referred to as
“Variable Rates”); (ii) may be issued as “Mandatory Tender Bonds”; and (iii) may be issued under
structures commonly referred to as “index rate bonds” in which a per annum rate of interest on the Bonds
is calculated as the sum of (A) an “applicable spread” plus (B) the product of an “index” multiplied by an
“applicable factor”, as more fully set forth in the related Supplemental Indenture.
Section 102.
Miscellaneous Definitions. As used herein, and unless the context shall
otherwise indicate, the words “Bond”, “Owner”, and “Person” shall include the plural as well as the
singular number.
As used herein, the terms “herein,” “hereunder,” “hereby,” “hereto,” “hereof” and any similar
terms refer to this Master Indenture.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, references herein to articles, sections, subsections, clauses,
paragraphs and other subdivisions refer to the designated articles, sections, subsections, clauses,
paragraphs and other subdivisions of this Master Indenture as originally executed.
ARTICLE II
AUTHORIZATION AND ISSUANCE OF BONDS, JUNIOR LIEN OBLIGATIONS
AND QUALIFIED SWAP AGREEMENTS
Section 201.

Authorization of Bonds, Junior Lien Obligations and Qualified Swap Agreement.

(A)
The County shall not issue any Bonds while this Master Indenture is in effect except in
accordance with the provisions of this Article II. All Bonds issued under this Master Indenture shall be
designated “Sales Tax Revenue Bonds,” and shall include such further appropriate designations as the
County may determine.
(B)
Bonds may be issued in one or more Series and each Bond shall bear upon its face the
designation determined for its Series. Any two or more Series may be consolidated for purposes of sale
in such manner as may be provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series.
(C)
The County shall not issue any Junior Lien Obligations or enter into any Qualified Swap
Agreements while this Master Indenture is in effect except in accordance with the provisions of this
Article II.
Section 202.

General Provisions for Issuance of Bonds.

 page 36
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(A)
Bonds of each Series shall be executed by the County and delivered to the Trustee and
thereupon shall be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the County or upon its order, but only
upon the receipt by the Trustee, at or prior to such authentication, of:
(1)

A Counsel’s Opinion regarding the validity and enforceability of such Bonds and the
federal income tax treatment of the interest on such Series of Bonds;

(2)

A written order as to the delivery of such Series of Bonds signed by an Authorized
Officer, which order shall direct, among other things, the application of the proceeds of
such Bonds;

(3)

A copy of the ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of such Series of Bonds,
certified by the County Clerk or any Deputy County Clerk of the County;

(4)

Executed or true counterparts of this Indenture, the applicable Supplemental Indenture,
any Bond Purchase Contract, any Credit Facility and any Remarketing Agreement
relating to such Series of Bonds, which shall collectively specify:

(a)

The authorized principal amount, designation and Series of such Bonds;

(b)

The purposes for which the such Series of Bonds is being issued;

(c)

The date, and the maturity date or dates of the Bonds of such Series;

(d)

The interest rate or rates of such Series, or the manner of determining such rate or
rates, and the Interest Payment Dates and Record Dates therefor;

(e)

The Authorized Denominations and the manner of dating, numbering and
lettering of the Bonds of such Series;

(f)

The Registrar and the Paying Agent or Paying Agents for the Bonds of such
Series;

(g)

The Redemption Price or Prices, if any, and any redemption dates and terms for
the Bonds of such Series not determined herein; and

(h)

The amount and date of each Sinking Fund Installment, if any, for Term Bonds
of like maturity of such Series, provided that the aggregate of such Sinking Fund
Installments shall equal the aggregate principal amount of all such Term Bonds
less the principal amount scheduled to be retired at maturity;

 page 37
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(5)

The amount of the Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement, if any, for such Series of
Bonds required to be on deposit in the applicable Series Sub-Account in the Debt Service
Reserve Fund; and

(6)

Such further documents, moneys and securities as are required by the provisions of this
Master Indenture or any Supplemental Indenture.

(B)
The Bonds of the same Series and maturity shall be of like tenor except as to
denomination and form. After the original issuance of Bonds of a Series, no Bonds of such Series shall
be issued except in lieu of or in substitution for other Bonds pursuant to Article III, Section 406 or
Section 1106 hereof.
Section 203.

The Bonds.

(A)
Bonds of a Series shall be in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiples of $5,000
(but no single Bond of a Series shall represent principal maturing on more than one date) and shall be
numbered consecutively but need not be authenticated or delivered in consecutive order.
(B)
The principal and Redemption Price of a Series of Bonds shall be payable at the
designated corporate trust offices of the Trustee, in _______, ________, as Paying Agent, and at such
offices of any co-Paying Agent or successor Paying Agent or Paying Agents appointed pursuant to this
Master Indenture for the Bonds. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable by check or bank draft mailed or
delivered by the Trustee to the Owners as the same appear on the registration books of the County
maintained by the Registrar as of the Record Date or, at the option of any Owner of $1,000,000 or more
in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds, by wire transfer of Current Funds to such bank in the
continental United States as said Owner shall request in writing to the Registrar.
(C)
The Bonds shall be initially issued in the form of a separate single fully registered Bond
for each maturity. Upon initial issuance, the ownership of each such Bond shall be registered in the
registration books kept by the Trustee in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC, and except as
hereinafter provided, the ownership of all of the outstanding Bonds shall be registered in the name of
Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC.

 page 38
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
With respect to the Bonds registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC, the County and the
Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any DTC Participant or to any person on behalf of
whom such a DTC Participant holds an interest in the Bonds. Without limiting the immediately
preceding sentence, the County and the Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation with respect to
(i) the accuracy of the records of DTC, Cede & Co. or any DTC Participant with respect to any ownership
interest in any Bond, (ii) the delivery to any DTC Participant or any other Person, other than the Owner of
any Bond, of any notice with respect to such Bond, including without limitation any notice of redemption,
or (iii) the payment to any DTC Participant or any other Person, other than the Owner of any Bond, of any
amount with respect to Principal or Redemption Price of or interest on such Bond. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Master Indenture to the contrary, the County, the Trustee and each other Paying
Agent, if any, shall be entitled to treat and consider the Person in whose name each Bond is registered as
the absolute owner of such Bond for the purpose of payment of Principal or Redemption Price and
interest with respect to such Bond, for the purpose of giving notices of redemption, for the purpose of
registering transfers with respect to such Bond and for all other purposes whatsoever. The Trustee and
each other Paying Agent, if any, shall pay all Principal or Redemption Price of and interest on the Bonds
only to or upon the order of the respective Owners thereof, or their respective attorneys duly authorized in
writing, and all such payments shall be valid and effective to satisfy and discharge fully the County’s
obligations with respect to payment of Principal or Redemption Price of and interest on the Bonds to the
extent of the sum or sums so paid. No Person other than an Owner of a Bond shall receive a Bond
certificate evidencing the obligation of the County to make payments of principal or Redemption Price of
and interest on the Bonds pursuant to this Master Indenture.
The Owners of the Bonds have no right to the appointment or retention of a depository for such Bonds.
DTC may resign or be removed as securities depository under the conditions provided in the Letter of
Representations. In the event of any such resignation or removal, the County shall (i) appoint a successor
securities depository, qualified to act as such under Section 17(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, notify DTC of the appointment of such successor securities depository and transfer or cause
the transfer of one or more separate Bond certificates to such successor securities depository or (ii) notify
DTC of the availability through DTC of Bond certificates and transfer or cause the transfer of one or more
separate Bond certificates to DTC Participants having Bonds credited to their DTC accounts. In such
event, the Bonds shall no longer be restricted to being registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee
of DTC, but may be registered in the name of the successor securities depository, or its nominee, or in
whatever name or names the DTC Participants receiving Bonds shall designate, in accordance with the
provisions of this Master Indenture.
The County has heretofore executed and delivered the Letter of Representations to DTC.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Master Indenture, so long as DTC, or its designee, is the
Owner of all the Bonds, the provisions set forth in the Letter of Representations shall apply to the
redemption of any Bonds and to the payment of Principal or Redemption Price of and interest on the
Bonds, including without limitation, that:

 page 39
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(a)

presentation of Bonds to the Trustee upon redemption or at maturity shall be
deemed made to the Trustee when the right to exercise ownership rights in the
Bonds through DTC or DTC’s Participants is transferred by DTC on its books;
and

(b)

DTC may present notices, approvals, waivers or other communications required
or permitted to be made by Owners of Bonds under this Master Indenture on a
fractionalized basis on behalf of some or all of those Persons entitled to exercise
ownership rights in the Bonds through DTC or DTC’s Participants.

So long as the Bonds are registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC, the
Trustee agrees to comply with the terms and provisions of the Letter of
Representations.
Section 204.

Initial Bonds and Additional Bonds for Project Purposes

(A)
Subsequent to the issuance of the Initial Bonds, one or more Series of Additional Bonds
may be authorized and delivered upon original issuance for the purpose of paying costs of any Project.
The Additional Bonds of any such Series shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee only upon
receipt by it (in addition to the documents, securities and moneys required by Section 202 hereof) of a
certificate of an Authorized Officer:
(1)

setting forth the amount of the Adjusted Pledged Sales Tax Revenues for each of
the most recent eighteen (18) months next preceding the date of issuance of such
Additional Bonds for which the County has received Pledged Sales Tax Revenues ;

(2)

setting forth for the current Bond Year and each Bond Year thereafter, the
Annual Debt Service Requirements on account of all Bonds then Outstanding and the
Additional Bonds proposed to be issued hereunder;

(3)

establishing that the aggregate amount for any consecutive 12 month period
described in subparagraph (1) above shall be not less than 250 percent of the Maximum
Annual Debt Service Requirement on account of all Bonds then Outstanding and the
Additional Bonds proposed to be issued; and

(4)

stating that all required deposits to all Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
hereunder are current.

In applying the foregoing test, if any of the Bonds Outstanding immediately prior to or after the issuance
of the Additional Bonds to be issued constitute Optional Tender Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds, the
provisions set forth in subparagraphs (X) and (Y) of Section 205(B) shall be applied in determining the
Annual Debt Service Requirements of such Bonds.

 page 40
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)
The proceeds , including accrued interest, if any, of each Series of Bonds shall be applied
upon their delivery as follows:
(1)

There shall be deposited in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account under this Master
Indenture the amount, if any, required by the Supplemental Indenture providing for the
issuance of such Bonds; and

(2)

The remaining balance shall be deposited in the separate account or accounts
established in the Project Fund for the Project specified in such Supplemental Indenture.

(C)
Bonds may be issued as Current Interest Bonds, Variable Rate Bonds, Capital
Appreciation Bonds, Capital Appreciation and Income Bonds, Optional Tender Bonds or Mandatory
Tender Bonds, (Serial Bonds or Term Bonds or any combination thereof, all as provided in the
Supplemental Indenture providing for their issuance.
(D)
Any Variable Rate Bonds may but are not required to be secured by a Credit Facility;
provided, however, that with respect to the issuance of Optional Tender Bonds, the County is required to
deliver to the Trustee upon the authorization thereof, a Credit Facility which the Trustee or another
Fiduciary may draw upon to pay the Purchase Price thereof. A Credit Facility may, but is not required to
be provided in connection with the issuance of Mandatory Tender Bonds.
Section 205.

Refunding Bonds.

(A)
One or more Series of Refunding Bonds may be authenticated and delivered upon
original issuance to refund or advance refund any or all Outstanding Bonds of one or more Series, to
refund or advance refund any Junior Lien Obligations, to pay costs and expenses incident to the issuance
of such Refunding Bonds and to make deposits in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account under this Master
Indenture as determined by the County in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds.
(B)
Refunding Bonds of a Series to refund or advance refund Outstanding Bonds shall be
authenticated and delivered by the Trustee only upon receipt by it (in addition to the documents,
securities and moneys required by Section 202 hereof) of:
(1)

Such instructions to the Trustee as necessary to comply with all requirements set forth in
Section 1201 hereof so that the Bonds to be refunded or advance refunded will be paid or
deemed to be paid pursuant to said Section 1201 and no longer outstanding.

 page 41
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(2)

Either (i) moneys in an amount sufficient to effect payment of the-principal and
Redemption Price, if applicable, and interest due and to become due on the Bonds to be
refunded or advance refunded on and prior to the redemption date or maturity date
thereof, as the case may be, which moneys shall be held by the Trustee or any of the
Paying Agents in a separate account irrevocably in trust for and assigned to the respective
Owners of the Bonds to be refunded or advance refunded, or (ii) Government Obligations
in such principal amounts, of such maturities, and bearing interest at such rates as shall be
necessary, together with the moneys, if any, deposited with the Trustee at the same time,
to comply with the provisions of Section 1201(B) hereof.

(3)

A certificate of an Authorized Officer evidencing either that (a) (i) the final maturity of
the Refunding Bonds does not exceed the final maturity of the Bonds being refunded and
(ii) the Annual Debt Service Requirements for any Fiscal Year on account of all Bonds
Outstanding, after the issuance of such Refunding Bonds and the redemption or provision
for payment of the Bonds to be refunded, shall not exceed the Annual Debt Service
Requirements for the corresponding Fiscal Years on account of all the Bonds
Outstanding, including the Bonds to be refunded, immediately prior to the issuance of
such Refunding Bonds or (b) in the case of a refunding of Outstanding Bonds that does
not meet the requirements of the preceding clause (a), satisfaction of the test set forth in
Section 204(A) hereof in connection with the issuance of Additional Bonds as applied to
the Refunding Bonds to be issued under the provisions of this Section, giving effect to the
redemption or provision for payment of the Bonds being refunded.

In applying the test set forth in subparagraph (B)(3) above, if any of the Bonds Outstanding immediately
prior to or after the issuance of the Refunding Bonds to be issued constitute Optional Tender Bonds or
Variable Rate Bonds, the following provisions shall be applied in determining the Annual Debt Service
Requirements of such Bonds:
(X)
Optional Tender Bonds. If any of the Outstanding Bonds constitute Optional
Tender Bonds, then for purposes of the amounts to be shown as set forth in subparagraph (B)(3) above,
the options of the Owners of such Bonds to tender the same for payment prior to their stated maturity or
maturities shall be ignored, and (1) if such Bonds also constitute Variable Rate Bonds, the County shall
adjust such amounts to be shown as set forth in subparagraph (B)(3) of this Section as provided in
subparagraph (Y) below, and (2) if such Bonds are secured by a Credit Facility, the Credit Bank or
obligations secured by credit facilities issued by such Credit Bank, and (3) any obligation the County may
have, other than its obligation on such Bonds (which need not be uniform as to all Owners thereof), to
reimburse any Credit Bank including any obligations so to reimburse in excess of the Annual Debt
Service Requirements on such Bonds (determined without regard to whether such Credit Bank shall then
be holding or shall then have had pledged to it such Bonds) shall be subordinated to the obligation of the
County on the Bonds.

 page 42
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(Y)
Variable Rate Bonds. If any of the Outstanding Bonds constitute Variable Rate
Bonds, then for purposes of computing the amounts to be shown as set forth in subparagraph (B)(3)
above: (I) the interest rate used in such computation shall be the lower of (a) The 25 Revenue Bond Index
published by the Bond Buyer (or if such Index is no longer available, any successor or replacement index)
and (b) if and so long as a Qualified Swap Agreement is in effect, the interest rate determined by
reference to Section 207 hereof; and (II) the principal amount of such Variable Rate Bonds payable in
each applicable Bond Year shall be calculated assuming Level Debt Service for each of the next
succeeding twenty (20) Bond Years and with the interest rate calculated as provided in clause (I) above.
The conversion of Bonds constituting Variable Rate Bonds to bear interest at a different variable rate or a
fixed rate or rates, in accordance with their terms, shall not constitute a new issuance of Bonds under
Section 204 or Section 205 of this Master Indenture.
(C)
Refunding Bonds of a Series issued to refund or advance refund Junior Lien Obligations
shall be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee only upon receipt by it (in addition to the documents,
securities and moneys required by Section 202 hereof) of:
(1)

A certificate of an Authorized Officer evidencing satisfaction of the test set forth in
Section 204(A) in connection with the issuance of Additional Bonds as applied to the
Refunding Bonds to be used under the provisions of this Section.

(2)

A certificate of the trustee then duly appointed or acting under the Supplemental
Indenture, indenture, resolution or other appropriate instrument securing and authorizing
such Junior Lien Obligations or of the County if there shall be no such trustee, that (i)
provision has been duly made for the redemption or payment at maturity of such Junior
Lien Obligations in accordance with the terms thereof, (ii) the pledge of Pledged Sales
Tax Revenues securing such Junior Lien Obligations and all other rights granted by such
indenture, resolution or instrument shall have been discharged and satisfied, and (iii) such
trustee or the paying agents for such Junior Lien Obligations hold in trust the moneys or
securities, together with investment income thereon, required to effect such redemption
or payment.

(3)

A Counsel’s Opinion to the effect that all actions required under the indenture, resolution
or other appropriate instrument securing and authorizing such Junior Lien Obligations to
provide for the redemption or payment of such Junior Lien Obligations have been taken.

(D)
The proceeds, including accrued interest, of the Refunding Bonds of each Series shall be
applied upon their delivery as follows:
(1)

There shall be deposited in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account under this Master
Indenture the amount, if any, required by the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such
Series, including, but not limited to, an amount to be applied to the payment of costs and
expenses incident to the issuance of such Refunding Bonds.

 page 43
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(2)

The amount of such proceeds needed for the refunding of the Bonds, Junior Lien
Obligations to be refunded, including for the purchase of Defeasance Obligations, and for
the payment of expenses incidental to such refunding shall be used for such purposes.

(3)

Any balance of such proceeds shall be deposited in the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenue Fund for application pursuant to Section 504.

(E)
Such Refunding Bonds may be issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds, Capital
Appreciation and Income Bonds, Current Interest Bonds, Variable Rate Bonds, Optional Tender Bonds
(provided the County delivers upon the authentication of such Bonds a Credit Facility which the Trustee
or another Fiduciary may draw upon to pay the Purchase Price of any such Bonds), Mandatory Tender
Bonds, Serial Bonds or Term Bonds or any combination thereof, all as provided in the Supplemental
Indenture providing for the issuance thereof.
Section 206.

Junior Lien Obligations.

(A)
The County may authorize and issue Junior Lien Obligations from time to time pursuant
to Supplemental Indentures for any of the purposes for which Additional Bonds or Refunding Bonds may
be issued hereunder. The Junior Lien Obligations shall be payable out of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues
and may be secured by a pledge and assignment of such amounts in the Junior Lien Debt Service Fund
and the Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve Fund as may from time to time be available for the purpose of
payment thereof as provided in Section 507 and Section 508 hereof, respectively; provided, however, that
any such pledge and assignment shall be, and shall be expressed to be, subordinate to the pledge of the
Trust Estate as security for the Bonds to the extent provided herein.
(B)
The Junior Lien Obligations shall have such terms and provisions as shall be set forth in
the Supplemental Indenture providing for the issuance thereof; provided, however, that no holder of a
Junior Lien Obligation shall have the right to cause the acceleration of any Bonds or any Junior Lien
Obligation in the event of a default thereunder.
Section 207.

Hedging Transactions

(A)
If the County shall enter into a Qualified Swap Agreement with a Swap Provider
requiring the County to pay a fixed interest rate on a notional amount, requiring the County to pay a
variable interest rate on a notional amount or placing a cap or collar on any interest rate to be paid by the
County on Variable Rate Bonds, and the County has made a determination that such Qualified Swap
Agreement was entered into for the purpose of providing substitute interest payments for Bonds of a
particular maturity or maturities in a principal amount equal to the notional amount of the Qualified
Swap Agreement or for limiting the County’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on Variable Rate
Bonds, then during the term of the Qualified Swap Agreement and so long as the Swap Provider under
such Qualified Swap Agreement is not in default under such Qualified Swap Agreement:

 page 44
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(1)

for purposes of any calculation of Interest Requirements, the interest rate on the Bonds of
such maturity or maturities shall be determined as if such Bonds bore interest at the fixed
interest rate or the variable interest rate, as the case may be, payable by the County under
such Qualified Swap Agreement;

(2)

any net payments required to be made by the County to the Swap Provider pursuant to
such Qualified Swap Agreement from Pledged Sales Tax Revenues shall be made from
amounts on deposit to the credit of the Interest Sub-Account; and

(3)

any net payments received by the County from the Swap Provider pursuant to such
Qualified Swap Agreement shall be deposited to the credit of the Interest Sub-Account.

(B)
If the County shall enter into a swap agreement of the type generally described in
subsection (A) of this Section 207 that does not satisfy the requirements for qualification as a Qualified
Swap Agreement, then:
(1)

the interest rate adjustments or assumptions referred to in paragraph (1) of said
subsection (A) shall not be made;

(2)

any net payments required to be made by the County to the Swap Provider pursuant to
such swap agreement from Pledged Sales Tax Revenues shall be made only from
amounts available to the County pursuant to paragraph (7) of Section 504(B) hereof; and

(3)

any net payments received by the County from the Swap Provider pursuant to such swap
agreement may be treated as Pledged Sales Tax Revenues at the option of the County,
and if so treated shall be deposited to the credit of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund.
ARTICLE III
GENERAL TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF BONDS

Section 301.

Obligation of Bonds; Medium of Payment; Form and Date; Letters and Numbers.

(A)
The Bonds shall be payable, with respect to interest, principal and Redemption Price, in
any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for the
payment of public and private debts.
(B)
Any Bonds of a Series shall be issued only in the form of fully registered Bonds without
coupons or, pursuant to the provisions of a Supplemental Indenture, in any other form permitted by law at
the time of original issuance, including, but not limited to, Bonds which are transferable through a bookentry system.

 page 45
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
Each Bond shall be lettered and numbered as provided in this Master Indenture or the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the Series of which such Bond is a part and so as to be distinguished
from every other Bond.
(D)
such Series.

Bonds shall be dated as provided in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing the Bonds of

Section 302.
Legends. The Bonds of each Series may contain or have endorsed thereon such
provisions, specifications and descriptive words not inconsistent with the provisions of this Master
Indenture as may be necessary or desirable to comply with custom, law, the rules of any securities
exchange or commission or brokerage board, or otherwise, as may be determined by the County or the
Trustee prior to the authentication and delivery thereof.
Section 303.

Execution and Authentication

(A)
The Bonds shall be executed in the name of the County by the manual or facsimile
signatures of its President, Chief Financial Officer and County Clerk, and its corporate seal (or a facsimile
thereof) shall be impressed, imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced thereon. In case any one or
more of the officers who shall have signed or sealed any of the Bonds shall cease to be such officer before
the Bonds so signed and sealed shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, such Bonds
may, nevertheless, be authenticated and delivered as herein provided, and may be issued as if the persons
who signed or sealed such Bonds had not ceased to hold such offices. Any Bond may be signed and
sealed on behalf of the County by such persons who at the time of the execution of such Bond shall hold
the proper office in the County, although at the date of such Bond such persons may not have been so
authorized or have held such office.
(B)
The Bonds shall bear a certificate of authentication, in the form set forth in this Master
Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Bonds, executed manually by the Trustee.
Only such Bonds as shall bear such certificate of authentication shall be entitled to any right or benefit
under this Master Indenture, and no such Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose until such
certificate of authentication shall have been duly executed by the Trustee. Such certificate of the Trustee
upon any such Bond executed on behalf of the County shall be conclusive evidence that the Bond so
authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered under this Master Indenture and that the Owner
thereof is entitled to the benefits of this Master Indenture.
Section 304.
Interchangeability of Bonds. Subject to the provisions of Section 306 hereof, any
Bond, upon surrender at the principal office of the Registrar with a written instrument of transfer
satisfactory to the Registrar, duly executed by the Owner or its duly authorized attorney, may, at the
option of the Owner and upon payment of any charges which the Trustee may make as provided in
Section 306, be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal amount of fully registered Bonds of the same
Series and maturity and tenor of any other Authorized Denominations.

 page 46
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 305.

Negotiability, Transfer and Registration.

(A)
Each Bond shall be transferable only upon the registration books of the County, which
shall be kept for that purpose by the Registrar, by the Owner in person or by its attorney duly authorized
in writing, upon surrender thereof with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar, duly
executed by the Owner or its duly authorized attorney. Upon the transfer of any such Bond, the County
shall issue in the name of the transferee a new Bond or Bonds in Authorized Denominations of the same
aggregate principal amount, Series and maturity as the surrendered Bond.
(B)
The County and each Fiduciary may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Bond
shall be registered upon the registration books of the County as the absolute owner of such Bond, whether
such Bond shall be overdue or not, for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the
principal and Redemption Price, if any, of and interest on such Bond and for all other purposes, and all
such payments so made to any such Owner or upon its order shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the liability upon such Bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, and neither the County
nor any Fiduciary shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 306.
Provisions with Respect to Exchanges and Transfers. In all cases in which the
privilege of transferring or exchanging Bonds is exercised, the County shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver Bonds in accordance with the provisions of this Master Indenture. All Bonds
surrendered in any such exchanges shall forthwith be cancelled by the Trustee. For any exchange or
transfer of Bonds, whether temporary or definitive, the County, the Trustee or the Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse it for any tax, fee or other governmental charge required to be paid. The
Registrar and the Trustee shall not be required to make any registration, transfer or exchange of any Bond
during the period between each Record Date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date of such
Bond, or after such Bond has been called for redemption or, in the case of any proposed redemption of
Bonds, during the 15 days next preceding the date of first giving notice of such redemption.
Section 307.
Bonds Mutilated, Destroyed, Stolen or Lost. In case any Bond shall become
mutilated or be destroyed, stolen or lost, the County shall execute, and thereupon the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like Series, maturity and principal amount as the Bonds so
mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost, in exchange and substitution for such mutilated Bond, upon surrender
and cancellation of such mutilated Bond or in lieu of and substitution for the Bond destroyed, stolen or
lost, upon filing with the Trustee or Registrar evidence satisfactory to the County and the Trustee or
Registrar that such Bond has been destroyed, stolen or lost and proof of ownership thereof, and upon
furnishing the County and the Trustee or Registrar with indemnity satisfactory to them and complying
with such other reasonable regulations as the County, the Trustee or Registrar may prescribe and paying
such expenses as the County and Trustee and Registrar may incur. All Bonds so surrendered to the
Trustee or Registrar shall be cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 1205 hereof. Any such
new Bonds issued pursuant to this Section in substitution for Bonds alleged to be destroyed, stolen or lost
shall constitute original additional contractual obligations on the part of the County, whether or not the
Bonds so alleged to be destroyed, stolen or lost shall be found at any time or be enforceable by anyone,
shall be entitled to - equal and proportionate benefits with all other Bonds of the same Series issued under
this Master Indenture and shall be equally secured by the moneys or securities held by County or any
Fiduciary for the benefit of the Owners.

 page 47
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 308.

Temporary Bonds

(A)
Until the definitive Bonds of any Series are prepared, the County may execute, in the
same manner as is provided in Section 303, and, upon the request of the County, the Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver, in lieu of definitive Bonds, but subject to the same provisions, limitations and
conditions as the definitive Bonds except as to the denominations thereof and as to exchangeability, one
or more temporary Bonds substantially of the tenor of the definitive Bonds in lieu of which such
temporary Bond or Bonds are issued, in Authorized Denominations, and with such omissions, insertions
and variations as may be appropriate to temporary Bonds. The County at its own expense shall prepare
and execute and, upon the surrender of such temporary Bonds the Trustee shall authenticate and, without
charge to the Owner thereof, deliver in exchange therefor, definitive Bonds of the same aggregate
principal amount, Series and maturity as the temporary Bonds surrendered in Authorized Denominations.
Until so exchanged, the temporary Bonds shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits and security
as definitive Bonds authenticated and issued pursuant to this Master Indenture.
(B)
The Owner of any temporary Bond or Bonds may, at its option, surrender the same to the
Trustee in exchange for another temporary Bond or Bonds of like aggregate principal amount, Series and
maturity of any Authorized Denominations, and thereupon the County shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and, in exchange for the temporary Bond or Bonds so surrendered and upon payment of the
taxes, fees and charges provided for in Section 306, shall deliver a temporary Bond or Bonds of like
aggregate principal amount, Series and maturity in such other Authorized Denominations as shall be
requested by such Owner.
(C)
All temporary Bonds surrendered in exchange either for another temporary Bond or
Bonds or for a definitive Bond or Bonds shall be forthwith cancelled by the Trustee.
ARTICLE IV
REDEMPTION OF BONDS
Section 401.
Privilege of Redemption and Redemption Price. Bonds subject to redemption
prior to maturity shall be redeemable, upon notice given as provided in this Article IV, at such times, at
such Redemption Prices and upon such terms, in addition to the terms contained in Article IV, as may be
specified in the Supplemental Indenture authorizing such Series.

 page 48
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 402.
Redemption at the Election or Direction of the County. In the case of any
redemption of Bonds at the election or direction of the County, the County shall give written notice to the
Trustee of its election or direction so to redeem, of the date fixed for redemption, of the Series, and of the
principal amounts of the Bonds of each maturity of such Series to be redeemed. Such notice shall be
given at least thirty-five (35) days prior to the specified redemption date or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Trustee. In the event notice of redemption shall have been given as in Section 405
provided, there shall be paid on or prior to the specified redemption date to the Trustee an amount in cash
or Government Obligations maturing on or before the specified redemption date which; together with
other moneys, if any, available therefor held by the Trustee, will be sufficient to redeem all of the Bonds
to be redeemed on the specified redemption date at their Redemption Price plus interest accrued and
unpaid to the date fixed for redemption; such amount and moneys shall be held in a separate, segregated
account for the benefit of the Owners of the Bonds so called for redemption.
Section 403.
Redemption Otherwise Than at County’s Election or Direction. Whenever by the
terms of this Master Indenture the Trustee is required or authorized to redeem Bonds otherwise than at the
election or direction of the County, the Trustee shall select the Bonds to be redeemed, give the notice of
redemption and pay the Redemption Price thereof, plus interest accrued and unpaid to the date fixed for
redemption, in accordance with the terms of Articles IV and V to the extent applicable.
Section 404.
Selection of Bonds to Be Redeemed. Unless otherwise provided by Supplemental
Indenture, if less than all of the Bonds of like maturity of any Series shall be called for prior redemption,
the particular Bonds or portion of Bonds to be redeemed shall be selected at random by the Trustee not
more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption in such manner as the Trustee in its discretion
may deem fair and appropriate; provided, however, that the portion of any Bond of a denomination of
more than the minimum Authorized Denomination for the Bonds of such Series to be redeemed shall be
in the principal amount of an Authorized Denomination for the Bonds of such Series and that, in selecting
portions of such Bonds for redemption, the Trustee shall treat each such Bond as representing that number
of Bonds of said minimum Authorized Denomination which is obtained by dividing the principal amount
of such Bond to be redeemed in part by said minimum Authorized Denomination. If all Bonds of any
Series are held in book-entry only form, the particular Bonds or portions thereof of such Series to be
redeemed shall be selected by the securities depository for such Series of Bonds in such manner as such
securities depository shall determine.

 page 49
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 405.
Notice of Redemption. When the Trustee shall receive notice from the County of
its election or direction to redeem Bonds pursuant to Section 402, and when redemption of Bonds is
authorized or required pursuant to Section 403, the Trustee shall give notice, in the name of the County,
of the redemption of such Bonds, which notice shall specify the Series and maturities of the Bonds to be
redeemed, the date fixed for redemption and the place or places where amounts due upon such date fixed
for redemption will be -payable and, if fewer than all of the Bonds of any like Series and maturity are to
be redeemed, the letters and numbers or other distinguishing marks of such Bonds so to be redeemed, and,
in the case of Bonds to be redeemed in part only, such notice shall also specify the respective portions of
the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. Such notice shall further state that on such date there shall
become due and payable the Redemption Price of each Bond to be redeemed, or the Redemption Price of
the specified portions of the principal thereof in the case of Bonds to be redeemed in part only, together
with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption, and that from and after such date interest thereon
shall cease to accrue and be payable. The Trustee shall mail copies of such notice by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, not less than 30 (thirty) days before the date fixed for redemption, to the Owners of the
Bonds to be redeemed at their addresses as shown on the registration books of the County maintained by
the Registrar. If the Trustee mails notices of redemption as herein provided, notice shall be conclusively
presumed to have been given to all Owners.
With respect to an optional redemption of any Bonds, unless moneys sufficient to pay the Redemption
Price of the Bonds to be redeemed shall have been received by the Trustee prior to the giving of such
notice of redemption, such notice may, at the option of the County, state that said redemption shall be
conditional upon the receipt of such moneys by the Trustee on or prior to the date fixed for redemption.
If such moneys are not received, such notice shall be of no force and effect, the County shall not redeem
such Bonds and the Trustee shall give notice, in the same manner in which the notice of redemption was
given, that such moneys were not so received and that such Bonds will not be redeemed.
If the notice of redemption to be given in connection with an optional redemption of any Series of Bonds
is not made expressly conditional as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Trustee will not give any
such unconditional notice of redemption unless sufficient funds to pay the full Redemption Price of such
Series of Bonds to be redeemed are on deposit with the Trustee at the time such notice is given.

 page 50
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 406.
Payment of Redeemed Bonds. Notice having been given in the manner provided
in Section 405, the Bonds or portions thereof so called for redemption shall become due and payable on
the date fixed for redemption at the Redemption Price, plus interest accrued and unpaid to such date, and,
upon presentation and surrender thereof at any place specified in such notice, such Bonds, or portions
thereof, shall be paid at the Redemption Price, plus interest accrued and unpaid to such date. If there shall
be called for redemption less than all of a Bond, the County shall execute and the Trustee shall
authenticate and the appropriate Fiduciary shall deliver, upon the surrender of such Bond, without charge
to the Owner thereof, for the unredeemed balance of the principal amount of the Bond so surrendered,
fully registered Bonds of like Series and maturity in any Authorized Denominations. If, on the date fixed
for redemption, moneys for the redemption of all the Bonds or portions thereof of any like Series and
maturity to be redeemed, together with interest to such date, shall be held by the Trustee so as to be
available therefor on said date and if notice of redemption shall have been given as aforesaid, then, from
and after the date fixed for redemption, interest on the Bonds or portions thereof of such Series and
maturity so called for redemption shall cease to accrue and become payable. If said moneys shall not be
so available on the date fixed for redemption, such Bonds or portions thereof shall continue to bear
interest until paid at the same rate as they would have borne had they not been called for redemption.
ARTICLE V
REVENUES AND ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS AND APPLICATIONS THEREOF
Section 501.

The Pledge Effected by This Master Indenture.

(A)
There are hereby pledged for the payment of the principal and Redemption Price of, and
interest on, the Bonds in accordance with their terms and the provisions of this Master Indenture, and a
lien is hereby granted for such purpose, subject only to the provisions of this Master Indenture permitting
or requiring the application thereof for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Master Indenture, (i) the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues, (ii) amounts on deposit in all Funds, Accounts and
Sub-Accounts and (iii) any and all other moneys, securities and property furnished from time to time to
the Trustee by the County or on behalf of the County or by any other persons to be held by the Trustee
under the terms of this Master Indenture; provided, that the application of Pledged Sales Tax Revenues to
the payment of debt service on any Junior Lien Obligations and to the payments due to a Swap Provider
under a Qualified Swap Agreement, and to a counterparty under a swap agreement that is not a qualified
swap agreement, is expressly limited as and to the extent provided in this Master Indenture.
(B)
The Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and the other moneys, securities and properties hereby
pledged shall immediately be subject to the lien and pledge hereof without any physical delivery or
further act, and the lien and pledge hereof shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of
any kind in tort, contract or otherwise against the County, irrespective of whether such parties have notice
hereof.

 page 51
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
The Bonds do not represent or constitute a debt of the County or of the State within the
meaning of any constitutional or any statutory limitation or a pledge of the full faith and credit of the
County or the State or grant to the Owners thereof any right to have the County levy any taxes other than
Home Rule Sales Taxes or the General Assembly of the State levy any taxes or appropriate any funds for
the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Bonds. The Owners of the Bonds
shall, however, have the right to enforce the covenants of the County set forth in Section 707 hereof
regarding the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues. . The Bonds are payable solely from the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues and sources pledged for their payment in accordance with this Master Indenture.
Section 502.

Establishment of Funds and Accounts.

(A)
The Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund is hereby established as a fund held by the County
in one or more Depositaries.
(B)
The following Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts are hereby established, all of which
are to be held by the Trustee:
1.

Debt Service Fund, consisting of the Interest Sub-Account and the Principal SubAccount,

2.

Debt Service Reserve Fund, consisting of such Series Sub-Accounts as may be
established by Supplemental Indentures governing the issuance of and securing the
related Series of Bonds;

3.

Rebate Fund, consisting of such Series Sub-Accounts as may be established by
Supplemental Indentures governing the issuance of and securing the related Series of
Bonds;

3.

Junior Lien Debt Service Fund, consisting of such Series Sub-Accounts as may be
established by Supplemental Indentures governing the issuance of and securing the
related Series of Junior Lien Obligations; and

4.

Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve Fund, consisting of such Series Sub-Accounts as may
be established by Supplemental Indentures governing the issuance of and securing the
related Series of Junior Lien Obligations.

 page 52
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 503.

Establishment of Project Fund.

(A)
The Project Fund is hereby established, which Project Fund shall be held as a separate,
segregated fund by the County in a Depositary. The County shall hereafter establish within the Project
Fund in connection with the issuance of each Series of Bonds separate, segregated accounts for the
deposit of proceeds of such Bonds issued to finance Projects. There shall be paid into the Project Fund the
amounts required to be so paid by the provisions of this Master Indenture and any Supplemental
Indenture governing the issuance of and securing the related Series of Bonds, and there may be paid into
the Project Fund, at the option of the County, any moneys determined to be so applied by the County.
(B)
Amounts in each separate, segregated account of the Project Fund established as provided
in paragraph (A) above shall be applied to the purpose or purposes and in the manner specified in the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the Series of Bonds the proceeds of which were deposited in such
account and upon the written direction of an Authorized Officer.
(C)
Moneys in the Project Fund shall be invested at the direction of an Authorized Officer to
the fullest extent practicable in Investment Securities maturing in such amounts and at such times as may
be necessary to provide funds when needed to pay costs of Projects or such other costs as may be required
to be paid from such moneys. The County may, and to the extent required for payments from the Project
Fund shall, sell any such Investment Securities at any time, and the proceeds of such sale, and of all
payments at maturity and upon redemption of such investments, shall be held in the applicable account in
the Project Fund. Earnings received on moneys or securities in a separate account in the Project Fund
shall be held as a part of such account and available for the purposes for which moneys in such account
are otherwise held.
(D)
Subject to the right of the County to substitute any other lawful project or expenditures
that will constitute a portion of any Project, the completion, substantial completion or abandonment of
construction of any Project to be paid for from the Project Fund shall be evidenced by a Certificate of an
Authorized Officer of the County, which certificates shall be filed promptly with the Trustee, stating the
date of such completion, anticipated completion or abandonment and the amount, if any, required in the
opinion of the signer of such certificate for the payment of any remaining part of the cost of such Project.
Upon the filing of such certificates evidencing the completion, substantial completion or abandonment of
construction of all Projects to be paid from any separate, segregated account established in the Project
Fund pursuant to Section 503(A) or 503(B) hereof, the balance in said account in excess of the amount, if
any, stated in such certificates of the County shall be deposited in the following order of priority: (1) in
each Series Sub-Account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund to the extent necessary to cause the amount
on deposit therein to equal the applicable Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement; provided that in the
event amounts available to be so deposited are insufficient to cause all applicable Series Debt Service
Reserve Requirements to be satisfied, such amount shall be deposited pro-rata [based on the ratio of (X)
the amount of the Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement corresponding to each such Series SubAccount of the Debt Service Reserve Fund to (Y) the total amount of Series Debt Service Reserve
Requirements applicable to all Series Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Reserve Fund that have been
established]; (2) in the Debt Service Fund for application as provided in Section 504(B) to fund any
deficiencies in any Funds, Accounts or Sub-Accounts described in Section 504(B); and (3) with any
remainder to be applied as provided in paragraph (7) of Section 504(B).

 page 53
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 504.

Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund

(A)
All Pledged Sales Tax Revenues received by the County, unless otherwise directed by
this Master Indenture, shall be deposited by the County as received, but in no event more than three
Business Days after receipt thereof by the County, into the Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund.
(B)
Beginning September 1, 2012 and for each month thereafter, on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of each month or upon receipt of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues (or on such earlier Deposit
Day as may be required pursuant to a Supplemental Indenture), the County shall withdraw from the
Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund and transfer to the Trustee the following amounts for application in the
following order of priority (provided that if such Deposit Day shall not be a Business Day, then the
Deposit Day shall be next Business Day):
(1)

for deposit to the credit of the Interest Sub-Account, an amount equal to (a) 20 (twenty)
per cent of the Interest Requirement, less (b) any amounts then on deposit to the credit of
said Sub-Account to the extent such amounts have not been excluded from the
determination of Interest Requirement as provided in the definition of such term set forth
in Section 101 hereof;

(2)

for deposit to the credit of the Principal Sub-Account, an amount equal to (a) 10 (ten)
percent of the Principal Requirement, less (b) any amounts then on deposit to the credit of
the Principal Sub-Account to the extent such amounts have not been excluded from the
determination of Principal Requirement as provided in the definition of such term set
forth in Section 101 hereof;

(3)

or deposit to the credit of the Rebate Fund to satisfy the requirements of any applicable
tax regulatory certificate or agreement described in Section 509 hereof.

(4)

for deposit to the credit of each Series Sub-Account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund to
the extent necessary to cause the amount on deposit therein to equal the applicable Series
Debt Service Reserve Requirement; provided that in the event amounts available to be so
deposited are insufficient to cause all applicable Series Debt Service Reserve
Requirements to be satisfied, such amount shall be deposited pro-rata based on the ratio
of (X) the amount of the Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement corresponding to each
such Series Sub-Account of the Debt Service Reserve Fund to (Y) the total amount of
Series Debt Service Reserve Requirements applicable to all Series Sub-Accounts of the
Debt Service Reserve Fund that have been established;

(5)

for deposit to the credit of the Junior Lien Debt Service Fund the amount, if any, as shall
be required to be deposited therein in the then current month to pay principal or to meet
sinking fund requirements of and interest on all Junior Lien Obligations outstanding, as
required by the terms of the Supplemental Indentures authorizing the issuance of such
Junior Lien Obligations;

 page 54
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(6)

for deposit to the credit of any Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve Fund the amount, if any,
as shall be required to be deposited therein in the then current month to provide reserves
for such Junior Lien Obligations as shall be secured thereby, as required by the terms of
the Supplemental Indentures authorizing the issuance of such Junior Lien Obligations;
and

(7)

for deposit as directed by the County to be used for any lawful corporate purpose of the
County.

(C)
At any time and from time to time, the County may pay to the Trustee for deposit into the
Debt Service Fund or the Debt Service Reserve Fund amounts received from the proceeds of Bonds or
amounts received from sources other than Pledged Sales Tax Revenues.
Section 505.

Debt Service Fund.

(A)
The Trustee shall pay to the respective Paying Agents in Current Funds (i) out of the
Interest Sub-Account on or before each Interest Payment Date for any of the Outstanding Bonds, the
amount required for the interest payable on such date; (ii) out of the Principal Sub-Account on or before
each Principal Payment Date, an amount equal to the principal amount of the Outstanding Bonds, if any,
which mature on such date; and (iii) out of the Principal Sub-Account on or before each Principal
Payment Date occasioned by redemption of Outstanding Bonds from Sinking Fund Installments, the
amount required for the payment of the Redemption Price of such Outstanding Bonds then to be
redeemed. Such amounts shall be paid to the Owners of the Outstanding Bonds by the Paying Agents for
the aforesaid purposes on the due dates thereof. The Trustee shall also pay out of the Interest SubAccount the accrued interest included in the purchase price of Outstanding Bonds purchased for
retirement. The Trustee shall also pay out of all of the Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Fund such
additional amounts, if available, permitted to be paid out to the County pursuant to paragraph (B)(4) of
this Section 505.
(B)
Amounts in the Principal Sub-Account available for the payment of Sinking Fund
Installments shall be applied to the purchase or redemption of Bonds as provided in this subsection.
(1)

Amounts deposited to the credit of the Principal Sub-Account to be used in satisfaction of
any Sinking Fund Installment may, and if so directed by the County shall, be applied by
the Trustee, on or prior to the [thirty-fifth (35th)] day next preceding the next Principal
Payment Date on which a Sinking Fund Installment is due, to the purchase of
Outstanding Bonds of the Series and maturity for which such Sinking Fund Installment
was established. That portion of the purchase price attributable to accrued interest shall
be paid from the Interest Sub-Account. All such purchases of Outstanding Bonds shall
be made at prices not exceeding the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price of such
Bonds plus accrued interest, and such purchases shall be made in such manner as the
County shall determine. The principal amount of any Bonds so purchased shall be
deemed to constitute part of the Principal Sub-Account until the Principal Payment Date
on which such Sinking Fund Installment is due, for the purpose of calculating the amount
on deposit in such Sub-Account.

 page 55
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(2)

At any time up to the thirty-fifth (35th) day next preceding the next Principal Payment
Date on which a Sinking Fund Installment is due, the County may purchase with any
available funds Outstanding Bonds of the Series and of the maturity for which such
Sinking Fund Installment was established and surrender such Bonds to the Trustee at any
time up to said date.

(3)

After giving effect to the Outstanding Bonds purchased by the Trustee and Outstanding
Bonds surrendered by the County as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) above, which
shall be credited against the Sinking Fund Installment at the applicable Redemption Price
thereof, and as soon as practicable after the thirty-fifth (35th) day next preceding the next
Principal Payment Date on which a Sinking Fund Installment is due, the Trustee shall
proceed to call for redemption on such Principal Payment Date Outstanding Bonds of the
Series and maturity for which such Sinking Fund Installment was established in such
amount as shall be necessary to complete the retirement of the unsatisfied portion of such
Sinking Fund Installment. The Trustee shall pay out of the Principal Sub-Account (after
transfers thereto from the Debt Service Reserve Fund, if required) to the appropriate
Paying Agents, on or before the day preceding such redemption date, the Redemption
Price required for the redemption of the Outstanding Bonds so called for redemption, and
such amount shall be applied by such Paying Agents to such redemption.

(4)

After making the payments as provided in the preceding paragraph (3) of this subsection,
the Trustee shall pay out of all Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Fund to the County on
the next scheduled Principal Payment Date on which a Sinking Fund Installment is due
the lesser of (i) the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price of and accrued interest on
such Outstanding Bonds surrendered by the County for such date or (ii) the amounts
remaining to the credit of all Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Fund in excess of the
amounts required to be on deposit to the credit thereof. The transfer described in this
paragraph (4) shall be made prior to the transfer described in Section 505(D), below.

(5)

If the principal amount of Outstanding Bonds retired pursuant to this subsection through
application of amounts in satisfaction of any Sinking Fund Installment shall exceed such
Sinking Fund Installment, or in the event of the purchase or redemption from moneys
other than from the Principal Sub-Account of Outstanding Bonds of any Series and
maturity for which Sinking Fund Installments have been established, such excess or the
principal amount of Outstanding Bonds so purchased or redeemed, as the case may be,
shall be credited toward future scheduled Sinking Fund Installments either (i) in the order
of their due dates or (ii) in such order as the County establishes in a certificate signed by
an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Trustee not more than fifteen (15) days after
the payment in excess of such Sinking Fund Installment.

 page 56
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
Moneys held in the Sub-Accounts of the Debt Service Fund shall be invested as provided
in Section 603(A) hereof. Investment income earned as a result of such investment shall be retained in
said Sub-Accounts.
(D)
On each Principal Payment Date, the Trustee shall determine the amount, if any,
remaining in the Principal Sub-Account after all requirements for the payment of principal of the Bonds
on such Principal Payment Date have been satisfied. Any such amount shall be transferred promptly from
the Principal Sub-Account to the County and deposited in the Pledged Sales Tax Revenue Fund and
applied pursuant to Section 504(B) hereof; provided, however, that no amounts derived from the
investment of moneys in the Principal Sub-Account shall be so transferred but shall be retained therein.
(E)
The amount, if any, deposited in the Interest Sub-Account from the proceeds of
Outstanding Bonds shall be set aside in such Sub-Account and applied to the payment of the interest on
the Bonds with respect to which such proceeds were deposited in accordance with the provisions of the
Supplemental Indenture authorizing the issuance of such Bonds.
Section 506.

Debt Service Reserve Fund.

(A)
In lieu of the required deposits into any Series Sub-Account of the Debt Service Reserve
Fund, the County may cause to be deposited into such Series Sub-Account a surety bond, an insurance
policy, a letter of credit or other credit facility (any such instrument referred to herein as a “Debt Reserve
Credit Facility”) which, in each case, shall be in an amount equal to the difference between the applicable
Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement and the sums then on deposit to the credit of such Series SubAccount. Any Debt Service Credit Facility shall be payable to the Trustee for the equal and ratable
benefit of all of the Owners of the Outstanding Bonds of such Series on any date on which moneys shall
be required to be withdrawn from such Series Sub-Account and applied to the payment of the Principal of
or interest on any such Series of Bonds which withdrawal cannot be met by any cash on deposit to the
credit of such Series Sub-Account. The insurer providing such surety bond or insurance policy shall be
an insurer whose municipal bond insurance policies insuring the payment, when due, of the principal of
and interest on municipal bond issues results in such issues being rated in either of the two highest rating
categories by any of the Rating Agencies, or any insurer who holds either of the two highest policyholder
ratings accorded insurers by A.M. Best & Co. (or any comparable service) at the time of deposit. The
letter of credit issuer shall be a bank or trust company and any other credit facility issuer shall be a
company or other legal entity which is rated in either of the two highest rating categories by any of the
Rating Agencies, and the letter of credit or other credit facility itself shall be rated in either of the two
highest categories of each of such Rating Agencies at the time of deposit. If a disbursement is made
pursuant to any Debt Reserve Credit Facility pursuant to this subparagraph 506(A), the County shall be
obligated either (i) to reinstate the maximum limits of such Debt Reserve Credit Facility in accordance
with the terms thereof or (ii) to deposit to the credit of such Series Sub-Account, funds in the amount of
the disbursement made under such Debt Reserve Credit Facility, or a combination of such alternatives, as
shall provide that the amount to the credit of such Series Sub-Account equals the Series Debt Service
Reserve Requirement within a time period not longer than would have been required to restore such
Series Sub-Account by operation of Section 504(B)(3) hereof.

 page 57
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)
In the event that any Debt Reserve Credit Facility deposited with the Trustee as provided
in subparagraph (A) above is withdrawn by the issuer thereof or expires and is not renewed, the County
shall fund the resulting deficiency with respect to the Debt Service Reserve Requirement (a) by
depositing in the applicable Series Sub-Account a new Debt Reserve Credit Facility meeting the
requirements of subparagraph (A) above or (b) by funding the Series Debt Service Reserve Requirement
from Pledged Sales Tax Revenues as provided in subparagraph (A) above.
Section 507.

Junior Lien Debt Service Fund

(A)
Moneys to the credit of the-Junior Lien Debt Service Fund shall be applied to the
payment of the principal and sinking fund requirements of and interest on each issue of Junior Lien
Obligations in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the priorities and limitations and
restrictions provided in, the respective Supplemental Indentures authorizing the issuance thereof.
(B)
At any time and from time to time, the County may pay to the Trustee for deposit into the
Junior Lien Debt Service Fund amounts received from the proceeds of Junior Lien Obligations or
amounts received from sources other than Pledged Sales Tax Revenues.
Section 508.
Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve Fund. The Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve
Fund shall be funded and moneys therein applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on each
issue of Junior Lien Obligations in accordance with the provisions of, and subject to the priorities and
limitations and restrictions provided in, the respective Supplemental Indentures authorizing the issuance
thereof.
Section 509.

Rebate Fund.

(A)
If and to the extent required by the Code and Regulations, the County shall determine the
amount of Excess Earnings with respect to each Series of Bonds and direct the Trustee in writing to
transfer from any other of the funds and accounts held by the Trustee hereunder and deposit to the related
Series Rebate Subaccount of the Rebate Account, all or a portion of the Excess Earnings with respect to
such Series of Bonds.
(B)
Moneys on deposit in the related Series Rebate Subaccount of the Rebate Account shall
be paid to the Department of the Treasury of the United States of America to the extent and in the manner
required by the provisions of the applicable tax regulatory certificate or agreement. Moneys which are
determined to be in excess of the amount required to be so rebated shall be deposited to the Interest SubAccount of the Debt Service Account in accordance with the provisions of such applicable tax regulatory
certificate or agreement.
(C)

Amounts in the Rebate Account shall not be pledged to Owners of the Bonds.

 page 58
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 510.
Creation of Additional Accounts and Sub-Accounts. The Trustee shall, at the
written request of the County, establish such additional Accounts within any of the Funds established
under this Master Indenture, and Sub-Accounts within any of the Accounts established under this Master
Indenture, as shall be specified in such written request, for the purpose of enabling the County to identify
or account for more precisely the sources, timing and amounts of transfers or deposits into such Funds,
Accounts and Sub-Accounts, the amounts on deposit in or credited to such Funds, Accounts or SubAccounts as of any date or dates of calculation, and the sources, timing and amounts of transfers,
disbursements or withdrawals from such Funds, Accounts or Sub-Accounts; but the establishment of any
such additional Accounts or Sub-Accounts shall not alter or modify in any manner or to any extent any of
the requirements of this Master Indenture with respect to the deposit or use of moneys in any Fund,
Account or Sub-Account established hereunder.
Section 511.
Payments Under Bond Insurance Policies. Payments to a Bond Insurer of a
Series of Bonds shall be made in accordance with the provisions under the Supplemental Indenture
issuing such Series of Bonds.
ARTICLE VI
DEPOSITARIES, SECURITY FOR DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS OF FUNDS
Section 601.
Depositaries. All moneys held by the Trustee under the provisions of this Master
Indenture shall be deposited with one or more Depositaries selected by an Authorized Officer in the name
of and in trust for the Trustee. All moneys held by the County under this Master Indenture shall be
deposited in one or more Depositaries (selected by an Authorized Officer) in the name of the County. All
moneys deposited under the provisions of this Master Indenture with the Trustee, the County or any
Depositary shall be held in trust and applied only in accordance with the provisions of this Master
Indenture, and each of the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts established by this Master Indenture shall
be a trust fund.
Section 602.

Deposits.

(A)
All moneys held by any Depositary under this Master Indenture may be placed on
demand or time deposit, as directed by an Authorized Officer, provided that such deposits shall permit the
moneys so held to be available for use when needed. Any such deposit may be made in the commercial
banking department of any Fiduciary which may honor checks and drafts on such deposit as if it were not
a Fiduciary. All moneys held by a Fiduciary may be deposited in its banking department on demand or, if
and to the extent directed by an Authorized Officer, on time deposit, provided that such moneys on
deposit be available for use when needed. Such Fiduciary shall allow and credit on such moneys such
interest, if any, as it customarily allows upon similar funds of similar size.

 page 59
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)
All moneys on deposit to the credit of the Debt Service Fund and the Debt Service
Reserve Fund not otherwise secured by deposit insurance shall be continuously and fully secured by the
Trustee for the benefit of the County and the Owners of the Bonds by lodging with the Trustee as
collateral security, Government Obligations having a market value (exclusive of accrued interest) of not
less than the amount of such moneys. All moneys on deposit to the credit of the Project Fund not
otherwise secured by deposit insurance shall be continuously and fully secured by the appropriate
Depositary for the benefit of the County and the Owners of the Bonds by lodging with the appropriate
Depositary as collateral security, Government Obligations having a market value (exclusive of accrued
interest) not less than the amount of such moneys. All other moneys held for the County under this
Master Indenture shall be continuously and fully secured for the benefit of the County and the Owners of
the Bonds in the same manner as provided by the County for similar funds of the County.
(C)
All moneys deposited with the Trustee and each Depositary shall be credited to the
particular Fund, Account or Sub-Account to which such moneys belong.
Section 603.

Investment of Certain Moneys.

(A)
Moneys held in the Debt Service Fund and its Sub-Accounts and the Debt Service
Reserve Fund shall be invested and reinvested by the Trustee at the direction of an Authorized Officer
confirmed in writing to the fullest extent practicable in Government Obligations which mature no later
than necessary to provide moneys when needed for payments to be made from such Accounts or SubAccounts, but no moneys in the Debt Service Reserve Fund shall be invested in any Government
Obligations maturing more than 10 years from the date of such investment. Amounts in the Pledged
Sales Tax Revenue Fund held by the County in a Depositary, may be invested by the County at the
direction of an Authorized Officer in Investment Securities which mature within one year, but no later
than necessary to provide moneys when needed for payments from such Fund and Accounts. Moneys
held in any separate, segregated account of the Project Fund held by the County in a Depositary may be
invested and reinvested by the County at the direction of an Authorized Officer in Investment Securities
which mature no later than necessary to provide moneys when needed for payments to be made from such
Accounts.
(B)
Moneys held in two or more Funds, Accounts or Sub-Accounts may be jointly invested in
one or more Investment Securities, provided that such investment complies with all the terms and
conditions hereof relating to the investment of moneys in such Funds, Accounts or Sub-Accounts, as the
case may be, and the County maintains books and records as to the allocation of such investment as
among such Funds, Accounts or Sub-Accounts. Investment income from investments held in the various
Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts shall remain in and be a part of the respective Funds, Accounts and
Sub-Accounts in which such investments are held, except as otherwise provided in this Master Indenture.
(C)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Master Indenture to the contrary, all
investments made under this Master Indenture shall be consistent with the expectations expressed in any
arbitrage certificate executed on behalf of the County and filed with the Trustee with respect to any Series
of Bonds issued under this Master Indenture.

 page 60
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 604.

Valuation and Sale of Investments.

(A)
Investment Securities in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account created under the provisions
of this Master Indenture shall be deemed at all times to be part of such Fund, Account or Sub-Account
and any profit realized from the liquidation of such investment shall be credited to such Fund, Account or
Sub-Account and any loss resulting from liquidation of such investment shall be charged to such Fund,
Account or Sub-Account.
(B)
Valuations of Investment Securities held in the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
established hereunder shall be made or caused to be made by the County as often as may be necessary to
determine the amounts held therein, except that valuations of Government Obligations held in the Debt
Service Fund and its Sub-Accounts and the Debt Service Reserve Fund shall be made at least once each
year on such dates as shall be determined by the County. In computing the amounts in such Funds,
Accounts and Sub-Accounts, Investment Securities therein shall be valued as provided in paragraph (C)
of this Section 604.
(C)
The value of Investment Securities shall mean the fair market value thereof, provided,
however, that all SLGs shall be valued at par and those obligations which are redeemable at the option of
the holder shall be valued at the price at which such obligations are then redeemable.
(D)
Except as otherwise provided in this Master Indenture, the Trustee at-the direction of an
Authorized Officer shall sell at the best price obtainable, or present for redemption, any Investment
Security held in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account held by the Trustee whenever it shall be necessary to
provide moneys to meet any payment or transfer from such Fund, Account or Sub-Account as the case
may be. The Trustee and the County shall not be liable or responsible for making any such investment in
the manner provided above or for any loss resulting from any such investment.
ARTICLE VII
PARTICULAR COVENANTS AND REPRESENTATIONS OF THE COUNTY
Section 701.
Payment of Bonds. The County covenants and agrees that it will pay or cause
payment to be made of the principal at maturity and Redemption Price, if any, of every Outstanding
Bond, whether a Serial Bond or a Term Bond (subject to the provisions of Section 505(B)(5) hereof), and
the interest thereon, at the places, on the dates and in the manner provided in this Master Indenture and in
the Bonds. The County further covenants and agrees that it will make deposits to meet all Sinking Fund
Installments for the Bonds of a Series for which Sinking Fund Installments are established, in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of this Master Indenture and each Supplemental Indenture.

 page 61
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 702.
Extension of Payment of Bonds. If the maturity of any Bond or installment of
interest shall be extended pursuant to the written consent of the Owner thereof, such Bond or installment
of interest shall not be entitled, in case of any default under this Master Indenture, to the benefit of this
Master Indenture or to payment out of Pledged Sales Tax Revenues or Funds, Accounts and SubAccounts established by this Master Indenture or moneys held by Fiduciaries or Depositaries (except
moneys held in trust for the payment of such Bond or installment of interest) until the prior payment of
the principal of all Bonds Outstanding the maturity of which has not been extended and of such portion of
the accrued interest on the Bonds as shall not be represented by such extended claims for interest.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the right of the County to issue Refunding Bonds and such
issuance shall not be deemed to constitute an extension of maturity of Bonds.
Section 703.
Offices for Servicing Bonds. The County shall at all times maintain one or more
Paying Agents and Registrars in Chicago, Illinois or in New York, New York where Bonds may be
presented for payment and where Bonds may be presented for registration, transfer or exchange.
Section 704.
Further Assurance. At any and all times the County shall, as far as it may be
authorized by law, pass, make, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver, all and every such further
indentures, acts, deeds, conveyances, assignments, transfers and assurances as may be necessary or
desirable for the better assuring, conveying, granting, pledging, assigning and confirming, all and
singular, the rights, revenues and other moneys, securities and funds hereby pledged or assigned, or which
the County may become bound to pledge or assign.
Section 705.
Power to Issue Bonds and Pledge Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and Other Funds.
The County is duly authorized under all applicable laws and as an exercise of its home rule power to issue
the Bonds and to execute and deliver this Master Indenture and to pledge the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues
and other moneys, securities and funds pledged by this Master Indenture and to grant the lien granted by
this Master Indenture thereon in the manner and to the extent provided in this Master Indenture. The
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and other moneys, securities and funds so pledged, and subject to such lien,
are and will be free and clear of any pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance thereon or with respect thereto
prior to, or of equal rank with, the pledge and lien created by this Master Indenture, and all action on the
part of the County to that end has been and will be duly and validly taken. The Bonds and the provisions
of this Master Indenture are and will be valid and legally enforceable obligations of the County in
accordance with their terms and the terms of this Master Indenture, except to the extent enforceability
may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency and other laws affecting conditions, rights or remedies and the
availability of equitable remedies generally. The County covenants that upon the date of issuance of any
of the Bonds, all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution and laws of the State and this
Master Indenture to exist, to have happened and to have been performed precedent to or in the issuance of
such Bonds shall exist, have happened and have been performed. The County shall at all times, to the
extent permitted by law, defend, preserve and protect the pledge of and lien on the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues and other moneys, securities and funds pledged under this Master Indenture and all the rights of
the Owners under this Master Indenture against all claims and demands.

 page 62
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 706.
Indebtedness and Liens. The County shall not issue any bonds or other evidences
of indebtedness, other than the Bonds, Qualified Swap Agreements and Junior Lien Obligations, which
are secured by a pledge of or lien on the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues or the moneys, securities or funds
held or set aside by the County or by the Trustee under this Master Indenture, and shall not, except as
expressly authorized in this Master Indenture, create or cause to be created any lien or charge on the
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues or such moneys, securities or funds; provided, however, that nothing
contained in this Master Indenture shall prevent the County from issuing evidences of indebtedness
payable from moneys in the Project Fund as part of the cost of any Project, or payable from or secured by
the pledge of Pledged Sales Tax Revenues to be derived on and after such date as the pledge of all of the
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues provided in this Master Indenture shall be discharged and satisfied as
provided in Section 1201.
Section 707.
Covenants Regarding Pledged Sales Tax Revenues. The County covenants that it
will not (a) take any action legally available to it, including, without limitation, reducing the rate at which
Home Rule Sales Taxes are imposed so as to cause its collections of Pledged Sales Tax Revenues in any
Fiscal Year to be less than one hundred thirty-five percent (135%) of the sum in such Fiscal Year of (i)
the Annual Debt Service Requirement for such Fiscal Year on account of all Outstanding Bonds, (ii) the
deposits to the Debt Service Reserve Fund for such Fiscal Year required by the provisions of Section
504(B)(3) hereof, (iii) the deposits to the Junior Lien Debt Service Fund for such Fiscal Year required by
the provisions of Section 504(B)(4) hereof and (iv) the deposits to any Junior Lien Debt Service Reserve
Fund for such Fiscal Year required by the provisions of Section 504(B)(5) hereof; or (b) in any way
impair the rights and remedies of the Owners of the Outstanding Bonds until all such Outstanding Bonds
are fully discharged.
Section 708.

Accounts and Reports

(A)
The County shall keep proper books of record and account in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of its transactions relating to the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts established by
this Master Indenture, and which, together with all other books and financial records of the County, shall
at all reasonable times be available for the inspection of the Trustee and the Owners of not less than 25
percent in principal amount of Outstanding Bonds or their representatives duly authorized in writing. The
County further covenants that it will keep an accurate record of the collection and application of all
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues.
(B)
The County further covenants that it will cause any additional reports or audits relating to
the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues to be made as required by law, and that, as often as may be reasonably
requested, it will furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues as may be reasonably requested.
(C)
With respect to a Series of Bonds for which Bond Insurance is obtained, the County
further covenants that it will provide, or will cause the Trustee to provide, the Bond Insurer with the
information required under the Supplemental Indenture for such Series of Bonds.

 page 63
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 709.
Arbitrage. The County shall not at any time permit any of the proceeds of the
Bonds or any other funds of the County to be used directly or indirectly to acquire any securities or
obligations the acquisition of which would cause any Bond to be an “arbitrage bond” as defined in
Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
ARTICLE VIII
REMEDIES OF OWNERS
Section 801.
Default:”

Events of Default. Each of the following events is hereby declared an “Event of

(1)

if a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment of the principal or Redemption
Price of any Bond when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at
maturity or by call for redemption or otherwise;

(2)

if a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment of interest on any Bond, when
and as such interest shall become due and payable;

(3)

if a default shall occur in the performance or observance by the County of any other of
the covenants, agreements or conditions in this Master Indenture or in the Bonds
contained (other than as provided in clause (4) below), and such default shall continue for
a period of 90 days after written notice thereof to the County by the Trustee or after
written notice thereof to the County and to the Trustee by the Owners of not less than a
majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Bonds;

(4)

if a default shall occur in the performance or observance by the County of the covenant
set forth in Section 707 of this Master Indenture and such default shall continue for a
period of 30 days after written notice thereof to the County by the Trustee or after written
notice thereof to the County and to the Trustee by the Owners of not less than a majority
in principal amount of the Outstanding Bonds;

(5)

if the County shall file a petition seeking reorganization or a composition of indebtedness
under the federal bankruptcy laws or under any other applicable law or statute of the
United States of America or of the State; or

(6)

if an order or decree shall be entered, with the consent or acquiescence of the County,
appointing a receiver or receivers for revenues of the County, or any part thereof; or if
such order or decree entered without the consent or acquiescence of the County shall not
be vacated or discharged or stayed within 90 days after the entry thereof; provided, that in
determining whether a default shall have occurred under subparagraphs (1) or (2) of this
Section, no effect shall be given to payments made under any Bond Insurance Policy.

 page 64
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 802.

Accounting and Examination of Records after Default.

(A)
The County covenants that if an Event of Default shall have happened and shall not have
been remedied, the books of record and account of the County and all other records relating to the
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues shall at all times be subject to the inspection and use of the Trustee and of its
agents and attorneys.
(B)
The County covenants that if an Event of Default shall have happened and shall not have
been remedied, the County, upon demand of the Trustee, will account, as if it were the trustee of an
express trust, for all Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and other moneys, securities and funds held by the
County pursuant to the terms of this Master Indenture for such period as shall be stated in such demand.
Section 803.

Application of Revenues and Other Moneys after Default

(A)
The County covenants that if an Event of Default specified in Section 801 (1), (2) or (4)
shall happen and shall not have been remedied, the County, upon demand of the Trustee, shall pay over or
cause to be paid over to the Trustee (i) forthwith, all moneys, securities and funds then held by the County
in any Fund, Account or Sub-Account pursuant to the terms of this Master Indenture, and (ii) all Pledged
Sales Tax Revenues as promptly as practicable after receipt thereof.
(B)
During the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall apply such moneys,
securities, funds and Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and the income therefrom as follows and in the
following order:
(1)

to the payment of the reasonable and proper charges and expenses of the Trustee,
including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel employed by it;

(2)

to the payment of the principal of, Redemption Price and interest on the Bonds
then due, as follows:
FIRST: to the payment to the persons entitled thereto of all installments of interest then
due on the Bonds in the order of the maturity of such installments, together with accrued
and unpaid interest on the Bonds theretofore called for redemption, and, if the amount
available shall not be sufficient to pay in full any installment or installments of interest
maturing on the same date, then to the payment thereof ratably, according to the amounts
due thereon, to the persons entitled thereto, without any discrimination or preference;
SECOND: to the payment to the persons entitled thereto of the unpaid principal or
Redemption Price of any Bonds which shall have become due, whether at maturity or by
call for redemption, in the order of their due dates, and, if the amount available shall not
be sufficient to pay in full all the Bonds due on any date, then to the payment thereof
ratably, according to the amounts of principal or Redemption Price due on such date, to
the persons entitled thereto, without any discrimination or preference; and

 page 65
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(3)

to the payment of principal, redemption price and interest then due on Junior
Lien Obligations.

(C)
If and whenever all overdue installments of principal and Redemption Price of and
interest on all Bonds, together with the reasonable and proper charges and expenses of the Trustee, and all
other overdue sums payable by the County under this Master Indenture, including the overdue principal
and Redemption Price of and accrued unpaid interest on all Bonds held by or for the account of the
County, or provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall be made for such payment, and all defaults under
this Master Indenture or the Bonds shall be made good or secured to the satisfaction of the Trustee or
provision deemed by the Trustee to be adequate shall be made therefor, the Trustee shall pay over to the
County all moneys, securities and funds then remaining unexpended in the hands of the Trustee (except
moneys, securities and funds deposited or pledged, or required by the terms of this Master Indenture to be
deposited or pledged, with the Trustee), and thereupon the County, the Trustee and the Owners shall be
restored, respectively, to their former positions and rights under this Master Indenture. No such payment
over to the County by the Trustee or such restoration of the County and the Trustee to their former
positions and rights shall extend to or affect any subsequent default under this Master Indenture or impair
any right consequent thereon.
Section 804.

Proceedings Brought by Trustee.

(A)
If an Event of Default shall happen and shall not have been remedied, then and in every
such case, the Trustee, by its agents and attorneys, may proceed, and upon identical written request of
the Owners of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding and upon being
indemnified to its satisfaction shall proceed, to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Owners
of the Bonds under this Master Indenture forthwith by a suit or suits in equity or at law, whether for the
specific performance of any covenant herein contained, or in aid of the execution of any power herein
granted, or for an accounting against the County as if the County were the trustee of an express trust, or
in the enforcement of any other legal or equitable right as the trustee, being advised by counsel, shall
deem most effectual to enforce any of its rights or to perform any of its duties under this Master
Indenture.
(B)
All rights of action under this Master Indenture may be enforced by the Trustee without
the possession of any of the Bonds or the production thereof in any suit or other proceeding, and any
such suit or other proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its name.
(C)
All actions against the County under this Master Indenture shall be brought in a state or
federal court located in the State.

 page 66
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(D)
The Owners of not less than a majority ,in principal amount of the Bonds at the time
Outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceedings to be taken in
connection with the enforcement of the terms and conditions of this Master Indenture or for the
enforcement of any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the
Trustee, provided that the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the
Trustee shall be advised by counsel that the action or proceeding so directed may not lawfully be taken,
or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that the action or proceeding so directed would involve the
Trustee in personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Owners not parties to such direction.
(E)
Upon commencing any suit at law or in equity or upon commencement of other judicial
proceedings by the Trustee to enforce any right under this Master Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled
to exercise any and all rights and powers conferred in this Master Indenture and provided to be exercised
by the Trustee upon the occurrence of any Event of Default.
(F)
Regardless of the happening of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall have power, but
unless requested in writing by the Owners of a majority in principal amount of the Bonds then
Outstanding, and furnished with reasonable security and indemnity, shall be under no obligation, to
institute and maintain such suits and proceedings as may be necessary or expedient to prevent any
impairment of the security under this Master Indenture and to preserve or protect its interests and the
interest of the Owners.
Section 805.

Restriction on Owners’ Action.

(A)
No Owner of any Bond shall have any right to institute any suit or proceeding at law or in
equity for the enforcement or violation of any provision of this Master Indenture or the execution of any
trust under this Master Indenture or for any remedy under this Master Indenture, unless such Owner shall
have previously given to the Trustee written notice of the happening of an Event of Default, as provided
in this Article, and the Owners of at least a majority in principal amount of the Bonds then Outstanding
shall have filed a written request with the Trustee, and shall have offered it reasonable opportunity either
to exercise the powers granted in this Master Indenture or by the laws of Illinois or to institute such suit or
proceeding in its own name, and unless such Owners shall have offered to the Trustee adequate security
and indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee
shall have refused or failed to comply with such request within 60 days after receipt by it of such notice,
request and offer of indemnity, it being understood and intended that no one or more Owners of Bonds
shall have any right in any manner whatever by its or their action to affect, disturb or prejudice the pledge
created by this Master Indenture or to enforce any right under this Master Indenture, except in the manner
herein provided; and that all proceedings at law or in equity to enforce any provision of this Master
Indenture shall be instituted, had and maintained in the manner provided in this Master Indenture and for
the equal benefit of all Owners of the Outstanding Bonds, subject only to the provisions of Section 702
hereof.

 page 67
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)
Nothing in this Master Indenture or in the Bonds contained shall affect or impair the
obligation of the County, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay at the respective dates of maturity
and places therein expressed the principal of and interest on the Bonds to the respective Owners thereof,
or affect or impair the right of action, which is also absolute and unconditional, of any Owner to enforce
such payment of its Bond from the sources provided herein.
Section 806.
Remedies Not Exclusive. No remedy by the terms of this Master Indenture
conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or the Owners is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy,
but each remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given under this
Master Indenture or existing at law or in equity or by statute on or after the date of the execution and
delivery of this Master Indenture.
Section 807.

Effect of Waiver and Other Circumstances.

(A)
No delay or omission of the Trustee or any Owner to exercise any right or power arising
upon the happening of an Event of Default shall impair any right or power or shall be construed to be a
waiver of any such default or be an acquiescence therein.
(B)
The Owners of at least a majority in principal amount of the Bonds at the time
Outstanding , or their attorneys-in-fact duly authorized may on behalf of the Owners of all of the Bonds
waive any past default under this Master Indenture and its consequences, except a default in the payment
of interest on or principal or Redemption Price of any of the Bonds. No such waiver shall extend to any
subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 808.
Notices of Default. The Trustee shall promptly mail written notice of the
occurrence of any Event of Default to the Owners of the Bonds and to the Bond Insurer.
Section 809.

Rights of Credit Bank or Bond Insurer

(A)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Master Indenture to the contrary, but subject
to the provisions of any applicable Supplemental Indenture, any Credit Bank or any Bond Insurer shall be
treated as the Owner of Bonds upon which such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer is obligated pursuant to a
Credit Facility or Bond Insurance Policy, as applicable, for the purposes of calculating whether or not the
Owners of the requisite percentage of Bonds then Outstanding have consented to any request, consent,
directive, waiver or other action permitted to be taken by the Owners of the Bonds pursuant to this
Article.

 page 68
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)
All rights of any Credit Bank or Bond Insurer hereunder (other than rights held as a
registered owner of Bonds hereunder) shall cease and terminate if: (i) such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer
has failed to make any payment under its Credit Facility or Bond Insurance Policy; (ii) such Credit
Facility or Bond Insurance Policy shall cease to be valid and binding on such Credit Bank or Bond
Insurer or shall be declared to be null and void, or the validity or enforceability of any provision thereof is
being contested by such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer, or such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer is denying
further liability or obligation under such Bond Insurance Policy; (iii) a petition has been filed and is
pending against such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement,
insolvency, readjustment of debt, dissolution, liquidation or rehabilitation law of any jurisdiction, and has
not been dismissed within 30 days after such filing; (iv) such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer has filed a
petition, which is still pending, in voluntary bankruptcy or is seeking relief under any provision of any
bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, readjustment of debt, dissolution, liquidation or
rehabilitation law of any jurisdiction, or has consented to the filing of any petition against it under any
such law; or (v) a receiver has been appointed for such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer under the banking or
insurance laws of any jurisdiction.
(C)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Master Indenture to the contrary, but subject
to the provisions of any applicable Supplemental Indenture, until the County has reimbursed a Credit
Bank for amounts paid under a Credit Facility to pay the interest on or the principal of any Bonds on any
Interest or Principal Payment Date or to the extent any Bond Insurer has exercised its rights as subrogee
for the particular Bonds of which it has insured payment, (a) such Bonds shall be deemed to be
Outstanding and such Credit Bank or Bond Insurer shall succeed to the rights and interests of the Owners
to the extent of the amounts paid under the Credit Facility or as specified in respect of the applicable
Bond Insurance Policy until such amount has been reimbursed and (b) upon presentation to the Registrar,
such Bonds shall be registered in the name of the Credit Bank or its nominee or such Bond Insurer or its
nominee, as appropriate.
ARTICLE IX
CONCERNING THE FIDUCIARIES
Section 901.
Trustee; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties. The Trustee hereby accepts and
agrees to the trusts hereby created, but only upon the additional terms set forth in this Article, to all of
which the County agrees and the respective Owners of the Bonds, by their purchase and acceptance
thereof, agree. Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee undertakes such duties
and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Master Indenture.
Section 902.
Registrar; Appointment and Acceptance of Duties. _______________ is hereby
appointed Registrar for the Bonds. The Trustee or any Paying Agent may be appointed a Registrar. The
Registrar shall signify its acceptance of the duties and obligations imposed upon it by this Master
Indenture by executing and delivering to the County and to the Trustee a written acceptance thereof.

 page 69
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 903.

Responsibilities of Fiduciaries

(A)
The recitals of fact herein and in the Bonds contained shall be taken as the statements of
the County and no Fiduciary assumes any responsibility for the correctness of the same. No Fiduciary
makes any representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Master Indenture or of any Bonds issued
hereunder or as to the security afforded by this Master Indenture, and no Fiduciary shall incur any liability
in respect thereof. The Trustee shall, however, be responsible for any representation contained in its
certificate on the Bonds. No Fiduciary shall be under any responsibility or duty with respect to the
application of any moneys paid to the County or to any other Fiduciary. No Fiduciary shall be under any
obligation or duty to perform any act which would involve it in expense or liability or to institute or
defend any suit in respect hereof, or to advance any of its own moneys, unless properly indemnified.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (B) of this Section, no Fiduciary shall be liable in connection with
the performance of its duties hereunder except for its own negligence or misconduct.
(B)
In case an Event of Default has occurred and has not been remedied, the Trustee shall
exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Master Indenture, and shall use the same degree
of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the
conduct of his or her own affairs. Any provision of this Master Indenture relating to action taken or to be
taken by the Trustee or to evidence upon which the Trustee may rely shall be subject to the provisions of
this Section.
Section 904.

Evidence on Which Fiduciaries May Act.

(A)
Each Fiduciary shall be protected in acting upon any notice, resolution, request, consent,
order, certificate, report, opinion (including Counsel’s Opinion), bond or other paper or document
furnished to it pursuant to and conforming to the requirements of this Master Indenture, and believed by it
to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
(B)
Whenever any Fiduciary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or
established prior to taking or suffering any action under this Master Indenture, such matter (unless this
Master Indenture specifically requires other evidence thereof) may be deemed to be conclusively proved
and established by a certificate of an Authorized Officer, but in its discretion the Fiduciary may in lieu
thereof accept other evidence of such fact or matter or may require such further or additional evidence as
it may deem reasonable.
(C)
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Master Indenture, any request, order,
notice or other direction required or permitted to be furnished by the County to any Fiduciary shall be
sufficiently executed if signed by an Authorized Officer.
Section 905.
Compensation. Unless otherwise determined by contract between the County
and each Fiduciary, the County shall pay to each Fiduciary from time to time reasonable compensation
determined by the County for all services rendered under this Master Indenture.

 page 70
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 906.
Certain Permitted Acts. Any Fiduciary may become the Owner of any Bonds,
with the same rights it would have if it were not a Fiduciary. To the extent permitted by law, any
Fiduciary may act as depositary for, and permit any of its officers or directors to act as a member of, or in
any other capacity with respect to, any committee formed to protect the rights of Owners or to effect or
aid in any reorganization growing out of the enforcement of the Bonds or this Master Indenture, whether
or not any such committee shall represent the Owners of a majority in principal amount of the Bonds then
Outstanding.
Section 907.
Resignation of Trustee. The Trustee may at any time resign and be discharged of
the duties and obligations imposed upon it by this Master Indenture by giving not less than 60 days’
written notice to the County, all Owners of the Bonds, the Depositaries and the other Fiduciaries, and
such resignation shall take effect upon the day specified in such notice but only if a successor shall have
been appointed by the County or the Owners as provided in Section 910, in which event such resignation
shall take effect immediately on the appointment of such successor whether or not the date specified for
such resignation to take effect has arrived. If a successor Trustee shall not have been appointed within a
period of 90 days following the giving of notice, then the Trustee shall be authorized to petition any court
of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Trustee as provided in Section 910 hereof.
Section 908.
Removal of Trustee. The Trustee may be removed at any time by an instrument
in writing delivered to the Trustee and signed by the County; provided however, that if an Event of
Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee may be so removed by the County only with
the written concurrence of the Owners of a majority in principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding. The
Trustee may be removed at any time by the Owners of a majority in principal amount of the Bonds then
Outstanding, excluding any Bonds held by or for the account of the County, by an instrument or
concurrent instruments in writing signed and duly acknowledged by such Owners or their attorneys-infact duly authorized, and delivered to the County. Copies of each such instrument shall be delivered by
the County to each Fiduciary.
Section 909.

Appointment of Successor Trustee.

(A)
In case at any time the Trustee shall resign or shall be removed or shall become incapable
of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver, liquidator or conservator of the
Trustee, or of its property, shall be appointed, or if any public officer or court shall take charge or control
of the Trustee, or of its property or affairs, the County shall appoint a successor Trustee. The County
shall cause notice of any such appointment by it made to be mailed to all Owners of the Bonds.
(B)
If no appointment of a Trustee shall be made by the County pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this Section 910, the Owner of any Bond Outstanding hereunder may apply to any court of
competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if
any, as such court may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor Trustee.

 page 71
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
Any Trustee appointed under the provisions of this Section in succession to the Trustee
shall be a bank or trust company or national banking association, doing business and having its principal
corporate trust office in the State, and having capital stock and surplus aggregating at least $20,000,000, if
there be such a bank or trust company or national banking association willing and able to accept the office
on reasonable and customary terms and authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by
this Master Indenture.
Section 910.
Transfer of Rights and Property to Successor Trustee. Any successor Trustee
appointed under this Master Indenture shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to its predecessor Trustee,
and also to the County, an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon such successor Trustee,
without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become fully vested with all moneys, estates,
properties, rights, powers, duties and obligations of such predecessor Trustee; but the predecessor Trustee
shall nevertheless, on the written request of the County or of the successor Trustee, execute, acknowledge
and deliver such instruments of conveyance and further assurances and do such other things as may
reasonably be required for more fully and certainly vesting and confirming in such successor Trustee all
its right, title and interest in and to any property held by it under this Master Indenture, and shall pay over,
assign and deliver to the successor Trustee any money or other property subject to the trusts and
conditions herein set forth. Should any deed, conveyance or instrument from the County be required by
such successor Trustee for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee
any such moneys, estates, properties, rights, powers and duties, such deed, conveyance or instrument shall
be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the County. Any such successor Trustee shall promptly
notify the Paying Agents of its appointment as Trustee.
Section 911.
Merger or Consolidation. Any company into which any Fiduciary may be
merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated or any company resulting from any merger,
conversion or consolidation to which it shall be a party or any company to which all or substantially all of
the corporate trust business of any Fiduciary may be sold or transferred, shall be the successor to such
Fiduciary and be bound to the obligations and duties of such Fiduciary hereunder without the execution or
filing of any paper or the performance of any further act, unless such successor delivers written notice of
its resignation pursuant to the provisions of this Article; provided, however, that such company shall be a
bank or trust company organized under the laws of any state of the United States or a national banking
association and shall be authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this Master
Indenture.
Section 912.
Adoption of Authentication. In case any of the Bonds contemplated to be issued
under this Master Indenture shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any successor Trustee may
adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee so authenticating such Bonds and
deliver such Bonds so authenticated; and in case any of the said Bonds shall not have been authenticated,
any successor Trustee may authenticate such Bonds in the name of the predecessor Trustee or in its own
name.

 page 72
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 913.

Resignation or Removal of Paying Agent and Appointment of Successor.

(A)
Any Paying Agent may at any time resign and be discharged of the duties and obligations
imposed upon it by this Master Indenture by giving at least 60 days’ written notice to the County and the
other Fiduciaries. Any Paying Agent may be removed at any time by an instrument signed by an
Authorized Officer and filed with such Paying Agent and the Trustee. Any successor Paying Agent shall
be appointed by the County and shall be a bank or trust company organized under the laws of any state of
the United States or a national banking association, having capital stock and surplus aggregating at least
$20,000,000, willing and able to accept the office on reasonable and customary terms and authorized by
law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this Master Indenture.
(B)
In the event of the resignation or removal of any Paying Agent, such Paying Agent shall
pay over, assign and deliver any moneys held by it as Paying Agent to its successor, or if there be no
successor, to the Trustee and shall be subject to audit of all of its books, records and accounts with respect
to the Bonds. In the event that for any reason there shall be a vacancy in the office of any Paying Agent,
the Trustee shall act as such Paying Agent.
Section 914.

Resignation or Removal of Registrar and Appointment of Successor

(A)
Any Registrar may at any time resign and be discharged of the duties and obligations
imposed upon it by this Master Indenture by giving at least 60 days’ written notice to the County and the
other Fiduciaries. Any Registrar may be removed at any time by an instrument signed by an Authorized
Officer and filed with such Registrar and the Trustee. Any successor Registrar shall be appointed by the
County and shall be a bank, trust company or national banking association doing business and having an
office in the State or in the Borough of Manhattan, in the County and State of New York, if there be such
a bank, trust company or national banking association willing and able to accept the office on reasonable
and customary terms and authorized by law to perform all the duties imposed upon it by this Master
Indenture.
(B)
In the event of the resignation or removal of any Registrar, such Registrar shall deliver all
books, records and other property including the bond register of the County to its successor, or if there be
no successor, to the Trustee. In the event that for any reason there shall be a vacancy in the office of any
Registrar, the Trustee shall act as such Registrar.
Section 915.
Trustee Not Deemed to Have Notice of Default. The Trustee shall not be deemed
to have notice of any default hereunder except a default under Section 801(1), (2) or (4) hereof or the
failure of the County to file with the Trustee any document required by this Master Indenture unless any
officer in its corporate trust office shall have actual knowledge thereof or the Trustee shall be specifically
notified in writing of such default by the County or by the Owners of not less than a majority in principal
amount of the Bonds Outstanding; and all notices or other instruments required by this Master Indenture
to be delivered to the Trustee must, in order to be effective, be delivered at the corporate trust office of the
Trustee.

 page 73
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 916.
Quarterly Report by Trustee and Depositaries. Within seven days after the end
of each calendar quarter, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and each Depositary shall prepare a written report
for each Fund, Account and Sub-Account held by it pursuant to the provisions of this Master Indenture.
Such report shall set out the receipts and disbursements, both principal and income, and shall list the
Investment Securities held by the Trustee and each Depositary at the end of the quarter. A copy of each
such report shall be furnished to the County and any persons designated by the County.

In addition, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and each Depositary shall, at any time when
requested, including, without limitation, any request at the time of the resignation of the Trustee,
any Paying Agent or any Depositary, furnish to the County and any persons designated by the
County a report of the amount of moneys, including Investment Securities, held in each Fund,
Account or Sub-Account by the Trustee and each Depositary. For purposes of this certification,
the Investment Securities in each such Fund, Account and Sub-Account shall be treated as
having a value equal to their aggregate market value as of the date of the request.
Section 917.
Notice to Bond Insurer. With respect to a Series of Bonds for which Bond
Insurance is obtained, the County shall cause written notice of the resignation or removal of any Trustee,
Paying Agent or Registrar and the appointment of any successor thereto to be given to the Bond Insurer of
such Series of Bonds.
ARTICLE X
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
Section 1001. Supplemental Indentures Not Requiring Consent of Owners. The County and the
Trustee may without the consent of, or notice to, any of the Owners, enter into a Supplemental Indenture
or Supplemental Indentures as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one
or more of the following purposes:
(1)

to authorize Additional Bonds and Refunding Bonds and to specify, determine or
authorize any matters and things concerning any such Bonds which are not contrary to or
inconsistent with this Master Indenture;

(2)

to close this Master Indenture against, or impose additional limitations or restrictions on,
the issuance of Bonds, or of other notes, bonds, obligations or evidences of indebtedness;

(3)

to impose additional covenants or agreements to be observed by the County;

(4)

to impose other limitations or restrictions upon the County;

(5)

to surrender any right, power or privilege reserved to or conferred upon the County by
this Master Indenture;

 page 74
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(6)

to confirm, as further assurance, any pledge of or lien upon the Pledged Sales Tax
Revenues or any other moneys, securities or funds; provided, however, that no
Supplemental Indenture authorized by this paragraph (6) shall become effective until
each Rating Agency shall have delivered written confirmation to the Trustee that the
execution and delivery of such Supplemental Indenture will not in and of itself cause a
reduction or a withdrawal of its rating for any Bonds then in effect;

(7)

to amend the definition of Project for which Bonds may be issued;

(8)

to accommodate the use of Bond Insurance of a Credit Facility for specific Bonds or a
specific Series of Bonds;

(9)

to authorize the issuance of Junior Lien Obligations and in connection therewith, specify
and determine any matters and things relative thereto which are not contrary to or
inconsistent with this Master Indenture as then in effect;

(10)

to cure any ambiguity, omission or defect in this Master Indenture;

(11)

to provide for the appointment of a successor securities depository in the event any Series
of Bonds is held in book-entry only form;

(12)

to provide for the appointment of any successor Fiduciary;

(13)

to comply with the requirements of the Code as are necessary, in the Opinion of Bond
Counsel, to prevent the federal income taxation of the interest on any of the Bonds; and

(14)

to make any other change which, in the judgment of the Trustee, is not to the prejudice of
the Trustee or the Owners.

Section 1002. Supplemental Indentures Effective upon Consent of Owners. Any Supplemental
Indenture not effective in accordance with Section 1001 shall take effect only if permitted and approved
and in the manner prescribed by Article XI.
Section 1003. Filing of Counsel’s Opinion. Each Supplemental Indenture described in Section
1001 shall be accompanied, when filed with the Trustee, by a Counsel’s Opinion to the effect that such
Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the County in accordance with the provisions of this
Master Indenture, is authorized or permitted by this Master Indenture and, when executed and delivered,
will be valid and binding upon the County, the Owners and the Trustee.

 page 75
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
ARTICLE XI
AMENDMENTS
Section 1101. Mailing. Any provision in this Article for the mailing of a notice or other
information to Owners shall be fully complied with if it is mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid or
delivered only to each Owner of Bonds then Outstanding at its address, if any, appearing upon the
registration books of the County kept by the Registrar.
Section 1102. Powers of Amendment. Except for Supplemental Indentures described in Section
1001, any modification or amendment of this Master Indenture and of the rights and obligations of the
County and of the Owners of the Bonds hereunder, in any particular, may be made by a Supplemental
Indenture with the written consent given as provided in Section 1103 hereof (i) of the Owners of at least a
majority in principal amount of the Bonds Outstanding at the time such consent is given, and (ii) in case
less than all of the several Series of Bonds then outstanding are affected by the modification or
amendment, of the Owners of at least a majority in principal amount of the Bonds of each Series so
affected and Outstanding at the time such consent is given; provided, however, that if such modification
or amendment will, by its terms, not take effect so long as any Bonds of any specified like Series and
maturity remain Outstanding, the consent of the Owners of such Bonds shall not be required and such
Bonds shall not be deemed to be Outstanding for the purpose of any calculation of Outstanding Bonds
under this Section. No such modification or amendment shall permit a change in the terms of redemption
or maturity of the principal of any Outstanding Bonds, or of any installment of interest thereon or a
reduction in the principal amount or the Redemption Price thereof or in the rate of interest thereon
without the consent of the Owner of such Bond, or shall reduce the percentages or otherwise affect the
classes of Bonds the consent of the Owners of which is required to effect any such modification or
amendment, or shall change or modify any of the rights or obligations of any Fiduciary without its written
assent thereto. For the purposes of this Section, a Series shall be deemed to be affected by a modification
or amendment of this Master Indenture if the same adversely affects or diminishes the rights of the
Owners of Bonds of such Series. The Trustee may in its discretion determine whether or not the rights of
the Owners of Bonds of any particular Series or maturity would be adversely affected or diminished by
any such modification or amendment, and its determination shall be binding and conclusive on the
County and all Owners of the Bonds.

 page 76
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1103. Consent of Owners. The County may at any time authorize the execution and
delivery of a Supplemental Indenture making a modification or amendment permitted by the provisions of
Section 1102, to take effect when and as provided in this Section. Upon the authorization of such
Supplemental Indenture, a copy thereof shall be delivered to and held by the Trustee for the inspection of
the Owners. A copy of such Supplemental Indenture (or summary thereof or reference thereto in form
approved by the Trustee) together with a request to Owners for their consent thereto in form satisfactory
to the Trustee, shall be mailed to the Owners, but failure to mail such copy and request shall not affect the
validity of such Supplemental Indenture when consented to as in this Section provided. Such
Supplemental Indenture shall not be effective unless and until, and shall take effect in accordance with its
terms when (a) there shall have been filed with the Trustee (i) the written consents of the Owners of the
required principal amount of Outstanding Bonds, and (ii) a Counsel’s Opinion stating that the execution
and delivery of such Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the County in accordance with
the provisions of this Master Indenture, is authorized or permitted by this Master Indenture and, when
effective, will be valid and binding upon the County, the Owners and the Trustee, and (b) a notice shall
have been mailed as hereinafter in this Section provided. A certificate or certificates by the Trustee
delivered to the County that consents have been given by the Owners of the Bonds described in such
certificate or certificates of the Trustee shall be conclusive. Any such consent shall be binding upon the
Owner of the Bonds giving such consent and upon any subsequent Owner of such Bonds and of any
Bonds issued in exchange therefor whether or not such subsequent Owner has notice thereof; provided,
however, that any consent may be revoked by any Owner of such Bonds by filing with the Trustee, prior
to the time when the Trustee’s written statement hereafter in this Section referred to is filed, a written
revocation, with proof that such Bonds are held by the signer of such revocation. The fact that a consent
has not been revoked may be proved by a certificate of the Trustee to the effect that no revocation thereof
is on file with it. Any consent, or revocation thereof, may be delivered or filed prior to any mailing or
publication required by this Article and shall not be deemed ineffective by reason of such prior delivery
or filing. Within 30 days of any date on which the consents on file with the Trustee and not theretofore
revoked shall be sufficient under this Section, the Trustee shall make and deliver to the County a written
statement that the consents of the Owners of the required principal amount of Outstanding Bonds have
been filed with the Trustee. Such written statement shall be conclusive that such consents have been so
filed. Any time thereafter notice, stating in substance that the Supplemental Indenture has been consented
to by the Owners of the required principal amount of Outstanding Bonds and will be effective as provided
in this Section, shall be given by mailing to the Owners (but failure to mail such notice or any defect
therein shall not prevent such Supplemental Indenture from becoming effective and binding). The
Trustee shall deliver to the County proof of the mailing of such notice. A record, consisting of the
information required or permitted by this Section to be delivered by or to the Trustee, shall be proof of the
matters therein stated.

 page 77
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1104. Modifications by Unanimous Action. The Indenture and the rights and
obligations of the County and of the Owners of the Bonds thereunder may be modified or amended in any
respect by a Supplemental Indenture effecting such modification or amendment and with the consents of
the Owners of all the Bonds then Outstanding, each such consent to be accompanied by proof of the
holding at the date of such consent of the Bonds with respect to which such consent is given. Such
Supplemental Indenture shall take effect upon the filing (a) with the Trustee of (i) a copy thereof, (ii) such
consents and accompanying proofs and (iii) the Counsel’s Opinion referred to in Section 1103 and (b)
with the County of the Trustee’s written statement that the consents of the Owners of all Outstanding
Bonds have been filed with it. No mailing or publication of any Supplemental Indenture (or reference
thereto or summary thereof) or of any request or notice shall be required. No such modification or
amendment, however, shall change or modify any of the rights or obligations of any Fiduciary without its
written assent thereto.
Section 1105. Exclusion of Bonds. Bonds owned or held by or for the account of the County
shall not be deemed Outstanding and shall be excluded for the purpose of any calculation required by this
Article. At the time of any consent or other action taken under this Article, the County shall furnish the
Trustee a certificate of an Authorized Officer, upon which the Trustee may rely, identifying all Bonds so
to be excluded.
Section 1106. Notation on Bonds. Bonds authenticated and delivered after the effective date of
any action taken as in Article X or this Article provided may, and if the Trustee so determines shall, bear
a notation by endorsement or otherwise in form approved by the County and the Trustee as to such action,
and upon demand of the Owner of any Bond Outstanding at such effective date and presentation of its
Bond to the Trustee, suitable notation shall be made on such Bond by the Trustee as to any such action. If
the County or the Trustee shall so determine, new Bonds so modified which, in the opinion of the Trustee
and the County, conform to such action may be prepared, authenticated and delivered, and upon demand
of the Owner of any Bond then Outstanding shall be exchanged, without cost to such Owner, for such
Bond then Outstanding.
ARTICLE XII
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1201.

Defeasance.

 page 78
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(A)
If the County shall pay or cause to be paid or there shall otherwise be paid to the Owners
of all Bonds the principal or Redemption Price, if applicable, and interest due or to become due thereon,
at the times and in the manner stipulated therein and in this Master Indenture, then the pledge of any
Pledged Sales Tax Revenues and other moneys and securities pledged under this Master Indenture and all
covenants, agreements and other obligations of the County to the Owners shall thereupon be discharged
and satisfied. In such event, the Trustee, upon request of the County, shall provide an accounting of the
assets managed by the Trustee to be prepared and filed with the County for any year or part thereof
requested, and shall execute and deliver to the County all such instruments as may be desirable to
evidence such discharge and satisfaction, and the Fiduciaries shall pay over or deliver to the County all
moneys and securities held by them pursuant to this Master Indenture which are not required for the
payment of Bonds not previously surrendered for such payment or redemption. If the County shall pay or
cause to be paid, or there shall otherwise be paid, to the Owners of all Outstanding Bonds of a particular
Series, maturity within a Series or portion of any maturity within a Series (which portion shall be selected
by lot by the Trustee in the manner provided in Section 404 hereof for the selection of Bonds to be
redeemed in part), the principal or Redemption Price, if applicable, thereof and interest due or to become
due thereon, at the times and in the manner stipulated therein and in this Master Indenture, such Bonds
shall cease to be entitled to any lien, benefit or security under this Master Indenture, and all covenants,
agreements and obligations of the County to the Owners of such Bonds and to the Trustee shall thereupon
be discharged and satisfied.
(B)
Bonds or interest installments for the payment or redemption of which moneys shall have
been set aside and held in trust by the Escrow Agent at or prior to their maturity or redemption date shall
be deemed to have been paid within the meaning of and with the effect expressed in this Section 1201 if
the County shall have delivered to or deposited with the Escrow Agent (a) irrevocable instructions to pay
or redeem all of said Bonds in specified amounts no less than the respective amounts of, and on specified
dates no later than the respective due dates of, their principal, (b) irrevocable instructions to publish or
mail the required notice of redemption of any Bonds so to be redeemed, (c) either moneys in an amount
which shall be sufficient, or Defeasance Obligations the principal of and the interest on which when due
will provide moneys which, together with the moneys, if any, deposited with the Trustee at the same time,
shall be sufficient, to pay when due the principal or Redemption Price, if applicable, and interest due and
to become due on said Bonds on and prior to each specified redemption date or maturity date thereof, as
the case may be, and (d) if any of said Bonds are not to be redeemed within the next succeeding 60 days,
irrevocable instructions to mail to all Owners of said Bonds a notice that such deposit has been made with
the Trustee and that said Bonds are deemed to have been paid in accordance with this Section and stating
the maturity or redemption date upon which moneys are to be available for the payment of the principal or
Redemption Price, if applicable, of said Bonds. The Defeasance Obligations and moneys deposited with
the Trustee pursuant to this Section shall be held in trust for the payment of the principal or Redemption
Price, if applicable, and interest on said Bonds. No payments of principal of any such Defeasance
Obligations or interest thereon shall be withdrawn or used for any purpose other than the payment of such
principal or Redemption Price of, or interest on, said Bonds unless after such withdrawal the amount held
by the Trustee and interest to accrue on Defeasance Obligations so held shall be sufficient to provide fully
for the payment of the principal of or Redemption Price and interest on such Bonds, at maturity or upon
redemption, as the case may be.

 page 79
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
Amounts deposited with the Trustee for the payment of the principal of and interest on
any Bonds deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201, if so directed by the County, shall be applied
by the Trustee to the purchase of such Bonds in accordance with this subsection. Bonds for which a
redemption date has been established may be purchased on or prior to the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding
the redemption date. The principal amount of Bonds to be redeemed shall be reduced by the principal
amount of Bonds so purchased. Bonds which mature on a single future date may be purchased at any
time prior to the maturity date. All such purchases shall be made at prices not exceeding the applicable
principal amount or Redemption Price established pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Section 1201, plus
accrued interest, and such purchases shall be made in such manner as the Trustee shall determine. No
purchase shall be made by the Trustee pursuant to this subsection if such purchase would result in the
Trustee holding less than the moneys and Defeasance Obligations required to be held for the payment of
all other Bonds deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201.
(D)
The County may purchase with any available funds any Bonds deemed to be paid
pursuant to this Section 1201 in accordance with this subsection. Bonds for which a redemption date has
been established may be purchased by the County on or prior to the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the
redemption date. On or prior to the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the redemption date the County shall
give notice to the Trustee of its intention to surrender such Bonds on the redemption date. The Trustee
shall proceed to call for redemption the remainder of the Bonds due on the redemption date and shall pay
to the County on the redemption date the Redemption Price of and interest on such Bonds upon surrender
of such Bonds to the Trustee. Bonds which mature on a single future date may be purchased at any time
prior to the maturity date. The Trustee shall pay to the County the principal amount of and interest on
such Bonds upon surrender of such Bonds on the maturity date.
(E)
Any time after any Bonds are deemed to be paid pursuant to this Section 1201, the
County shall not at any time permit any of the proceeds of the Bonds or any other funds of the County to
be used directly or indirectly to acquire any securities or obligations the acquisition of which would cause
any Bond to be an “arbitrage bond” as defined in the Code and Regulations.
(F)
Each Fiduciary shall continue to be entitled to reasonable compensation for all services
rendered under this Master Indenture, notwithstanding that any Bonds are deemed to be paid pursuant to
this Section 1201.
(G)
Anything in this Master Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, any moneys held by a
Fiduciary in trust for the payment and discharge of any of the Bonds which remain unclaimed for two
years after the date when such Bonds have become due and payable, either at their stated maturity dates
or by call for earlier redemption, if such moneys were held by the Fiduciary at such date, or for two years
after the date of deposit of such moneys if deposited with the Fiduciary after the said date when such
Bonds become due and payable, shall, at the written request of the County, be repaid by the Fiduciary to
the County, as its absolute property and free from trust, and the Fiduciary shall thereupon be released and
discharged with respect thereto and the Owners of such Bonds shall look only to the County for the
payment of such Bonds.

 page 80
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1202.

Evidence of Signatures of Owners and Ownership of Bonds.

(A)
Any request, consent, revocation of consent or other instrument which this Master
Indenture may require or permit to be signed and executed by the Owners may be in one or more
instruments of similar tenor, and shall be signed or executed by such Owners in person or by their
attorneys appointed in writing. Proof of (i) the execution of any such instrument, or of an instrument
appointing any such attorney, or (ii) the holding by any Person of the Bonds shall be sufficient for any
purpose of this Master Indenture (except as otherwise herein expressly provided) if made in the following
manner, or in any other manner satisfactory to the Trustee, which may nevertheless in its discretion
require further or other proof in cases where it deems the same desirable:
(1)

The fact and date of the execution by any Owner or its attorney of such
instruments may be proved by a guarantee of the signature thereon by a bank, national
banking association or trust company or by the certificate of any notary public or other
officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, that the Person signing such
request or other instruments acknowledged to that Person the execution thereof, or by an
affidavit of witness of such execution, duly sworn to before such notary public or other
officer. Where such execution is by an officer of a corporation or association or a
member of a partnership, on behalf of such corporation, association or partnership, such
signature guarantee, certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of
authority.

(2)

The ownership of Bonds and the amount, numbers and other identification and
date of holding the same shall be proved by the registration book maintained by the
Registrar.

(B)
Any request or consent by the Owner of any Bond shall bind all future Owners of such
Bond in respect of anything done or suffered to be done by the County or any Fiduciary in accordance
therewith.
Section 1203. Moneys Held for Particular Bonds. The amounts held by any Fiduciary for the
payment of interest, principal or Redemption Price due on any date with respect to particular Bonds shall,
on and after such date and pending such payment, be set aside on its books and held in trust by it for the
Owners of the Bonds entitled thereto.
Section 1204. Preservation and Inspection of Documents. All documents received by any
Fiduciary under the provisions of this Master Indenture, shall be retained in its possession and shall be
subject at all reasonable times to the inspection of the County, any other Fiduciary, and any Owner and
their agents and their representatives, any of whom may make copies thereof.

 page 81
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1205. Cancellation and Destruction of Bonds. All Bonds paid or redeemed, either at or
before maturity, and all mutilated Bonds surrendered pursuant to Section 307, shall be delivered to the
Trustee when such payment or redemption is made or upon surrender, as the case may be, and such
Bonds, together with all Bonds purchased by the Trustee, shall thereupon be promptly cancelled. Bonds
so cancelled may at any time be destroyed by the Trustee, who shall execute a certificate of destruction in
duplicate by the signature of one of its authorized officers describing the Bonds so destroyed, and one
executed certificate shall be delivered to the County and the other retained by the Trustee.
Section 1206. Parties Interested Herein. Nothing in this Master Indenture expressed or implied
is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or to give to, any Person, other than the County, the
Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Bonds, any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Master
Indenture or any covenant, condition or stipulation thereof; and all the covenants, stipulations, promises
and agreements in this Master Indenture contained by and on behalf of the County shall be for the sole
and exclusive benefit of the County, the Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Bonds.
Section 1207.

No Recourse on the Bonds.

(A)
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal or Redemption Price of or
interest on the Bonds or for any claim based thereon or on this Master Indenture against any past, present
or future member, director, officer, employee or agent of the County, or any successor, public body or any
person executing the Bonds, either directly or through the County, under any rule of law or equity, statute
or constitution or otherwise, and all such liability of any such officers, directors, members, employees or
agents as such is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of and consideration for the
execution of this Master Indenture and the issuance of the Bonds.
(B)
No officer, director, agent or employee of the County shall be individually or personally
liable for the payment of the principal or Redemption Price of or interest on the Bonds; but nothing herein
contained shall relieve any such officer, director, agent or employee from the performance of any official
duty provided by law.
(C)
All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the County contained in this
Master Indenture shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the County
to the full extent authorized and permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State, and no covenants,
stipulations, obligations or agreements contained herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, stipulation,
obligation or agreement of any present or future officer, director, agent or employee of the County in his
or her individual capacity, and no officer executing the Bonds shall be liable personally on the Bonds or
be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issue thereof. No officer, director,
agent or employee of the County shall incur any personal liability in acting or proceeding or in not acting
or not proceeding in accordance with the terms of this Master Indenture.

 page 82
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1208. Successors and Assigns. Whenever in this Master Indenture the County is named
or referred to, it shall be deemed to include its successors and assigns and all the covenants and
agreements in this Master Indenture contained by or on behalf of the County shall bind and inure to the
benefit of its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Section 1209. Severability of Invalid Provisions. If any one or more of the covenants or
agreements provided in this Master Indenture on the part of the County or any Fiduciary to be performed
should be contrary to law, then such covenant or covenants or agreement or agreements shall be deemed
severable from the remaining covenants and agreements, and shall in no way affect the validity of the
other provisions of this Master Indenture.
Section 1210. Notices. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other instruments authorized
or required by this Master Indenture to be given to, delivered to or filed with the County or the Trustee
shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given, delivered or filed for all purposes of the Indenture if and
when sent by registered mail, return receipt requested:
To the County, if addressed to:

County of Cook, Illinois
118 North Clark Street, Room 1127
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Attention: Chief Financial Officer

or at such other address as may be subsequently designated in writing by the County to the Trustee; and
To the Trustee, if addressed to:

_____________________
_____________________
_____________________
Attention: ____________________

or at such other address as may be subsequently designated in writing by the Trustee to the County.
Section 1211. Construction. The Indenture and all Supplemental Indentures shall be construed
in accordance with the provisions of Illinois law without reference to its conflict of law principles.
Section 1212. Headings Not a Part of This Master Indenture. Any headings preceding the texts
of the several Articles and Sections hereof, and any Table of Contents appended to copies hereof, are
solely for convenience of reference and do not constitute a part of this Master Indenture, nor do they
affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1213. Multiple Counterparts. The Indenture may be executed in multiple counterparts,
each of which shall be regarded for all purposes as an original; and such counterparts shall constitute but
one and the same instrument.

 page 83
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the County of Cook, Illinois has caused this Master Indenture to be
executed in its name and its behalf by its Chief Financial Officer and _________________ of ________
has caused this Master Indenture to be executed in its behalf by its [Vice President] and its corporate seal
to be impressed hereon and attested by its Trust Officer, all as of the day and year first above written.
This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL TRUST INDENTURE dated as of August 1, 2012 (the “First Supplemental
Indenture”), by and between the County of Cook, Illinois, a county and home rule unit of local
government organized and existing under the laws of the State of Illinois (the “County”), and
_______________, a ______________ duly organized, existing and authorized to accept and execute
trusts of the character herein set out under and by virtue of the laws of the United States of America, with
its principal corporate trust office located in _______, _______ as Trustee (the “Trustee”).
W ITNESSETH
WHEREAS, by virtue of Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois
(the “State”), the County is a home rule unit of local government and as such may exercise any power and
perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the County deems it to be in the best interests of the inhabitants of the County and
necessary for the welfare of the government and affairs of the County to finance surface transportation
and highway improvements, including, but not limited to, arterial street and highway construction and
resurfacing, bridge and other structural improvements and repairs, traffic signal modernization, new
traffic signal installation and median construction (collectively, the “Series 2012 Project”), which Series
2012 Project qualifies as a “Project” (as defined in the Master Indenture); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to an ordinance duly adopted by the County Commissioners on [July 24],
2012, the County has duly authorized the issuance of its $_________ aggregate principal amount Sales
Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012 (the “Series 2012 Bonds”), for the purposes of financing the Series 2012
Project and paying the expenses of issuing the Series 2012 Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2012 Bonds are to be issued under the Master Indenture and this First
Supplemental Indenture (hereinafter sometimes collectively referred to as the “Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, the Series 2012 Bonds will be secured by a pledge of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues
(as defined in the Master Indenture); and

 page 84
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
WHEREAS, all things necessary: (i) to make the Series 2012 Bonds, when authenticated by the
Trustee and issued as provided in the Master Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture, the valid,
binding and legal obligations of the County according to the import thereof, and (ii) to constitute the
Master Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, a valid pledge of and grant of a
lien on the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and
interest on the Series 2012 Bonds, have been done and performed, in due form and time, as required by
law; and
WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture and the execution and
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds, subject to the terms of the Indenture, have in all respects been duly
authorized.
GRANTING CLAUSES
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TRUST INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
That in order to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series
2012 Bonds issued hereunder, according to the import thereof, and the performance and observance of
each and every covenant and condition herein, in the Master Indenture and in the Series 2012 Bonds
contained, and for and in consideration of the premises and of the acceptance by the Trustee of the trusts
hereby created, and the purchase and acceptance of the Series 2012 Bonds by the respective Owners (as
hereinafter defined) thereof, and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, and for the purpose of fixing and declaring the terms and conditions upon which
the Series 2012 Bonds shall be issued, authenticated, delivered, secured and accepted by all persons who
shall from time to time be or become Owners thereof, the County does hereby pledge and grant a lien
upon the Trust Estate defined in and established under the Master Indenture to the Trustee and its
successors in trust and assigns, all to the extent provided in the Indenture.
BUT IN TRUST NEVERTHELESS, for the equal and proportionate benefit and security of the Series
2012 Bonds issued hereunder and all Bonds (as defined in the Master Indenture) issued under and secured
by the Indenture, without preference, priority or distinction as to participation in the lien, benefit and
protection hereof of any one Bond over any other or from the others by reason of priority in the issue or
negotiation thereof or by reason of the date or dates of maturity thereof, or for any other reason
whatsoever (except as expressly provided in the Indenture), so that each and all of such Bonds shall have
the same right, lien and privilege under the Indenture and shall be equally secured thereby, with the same
effect as if the same had all been made, issued and negotiated upon the delivery hereof (all except as
expressly provided in the Indenture, as aforesaid).
PROVIDED FURTHER, HOWEVER, that these presents are upon the condition that, if the County, or
its successors, shall well and truly pay or cause to be paid, or provide for the payment of all principal,
premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2012 Bonds due or to become due thereon, at the times and in
the manner stipulated therein and herein, then this First Supplemental Indenture and the rights hereby
granted with respect to the Series 2012 Bonds shall cease, terminate and be void, but shall otherwise be
and remain in full force.

 page 85
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
AND IT IS HEREBY COVENANTED AND AGREED by and among the County, the Trustee and the
Owners from time to time of the Series 2012 Bonds, that the terms and conditions upon which the Series
2012 Bonds are to be issued, authenticated, delivered, secured and accepted by all Persons who shall from
time to time be or become the Owners thereof, and the trusts and conditions upon which the moneys and
securities hereby pledged are to be held and disposed of, which trusts and conditions the Trustee hereby
accepts, are as follows:
ARTICLE XIII
DEFINITIONS
Section 1301. Definitions.. The following terms shall, for all purposes of this First
Supplemental Indenture, have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
“Indenture” means the Master Indenture, as from time to time amended and supplemented, and
particularly as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture.
“Master Indenture” means the Master Trust Indenture, dated as of [August] 1, 2012, by and
between the County and the Trustee, authorizing the issuance of Sales Tax Revenue Bonds of the County.
“Series 2012 Bond Insurance Policy” means the municipal bond new issue insurance policy
issued by the Series 2012 Bond Insurer that guarantees the scheduled payment of principal of and interest
on the Series 2012 Bonds when due.]
“Series 2012 Bonds” means the Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012, of the County, authorized
by Section 201 hereof.
“Series 2012 Bond Insurer” _______________ and its successors and assigns, and any surviving,
resulting or transferee corporation, or any successor thereto.
“Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account” means the account by that name created in Section 401
hereof.
“Series 2012 Project” shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the preambles to this
Indenture.
“Series 2012 Project Account” means the account established under Section 401 hereof
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this First Supplemental Indenture, all terms defined in
Article I of the Master Indenture shall have the same meaning in this First Supplemental Indenture as if
expressly defined herein.

 page 86
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1302. Miscellaneous Definitions. As used herein, and unless the context shall
otherwise indicate, all words and terms shall include the plural as well as the singular number.
As used herein, the terms “herein,” “hereunder,” “hereby,” “hereto,” “hereof’ and any similar
terms refer to this First Supplemental Indenture.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, references herein to articles, sections, subsections,
clauses, paragraphs and other subdivisions refer to the designated articles, sections, subsections, clauses,
paragraphs and other subdivisions of this First Supplemental Indenture as originally executed. All words
and terms importing the masculine gender shall, where the context requires, import the feminine gender
and vice versa.
ARTICLE XIV
AUTHORIZATION AND ISSUANCE OF SERIES 2012 BONDS
Section 1401.

Authorization of Series 2012 Bonds.

(A)
The total principal amount of Series 2012 Bonds that may be issued under this First
Supplemental Indenture is expressly limited to ____________________ Dollars ($________)to finance
the Series 2012 Project and pay costs in connection with the issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds. Such
series of Bonds shall be designated as, and shall be distinguished from the Bonds of all other Series, by
the title “Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012.”
(B)
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be in fully registered form and shall be initially dated the
date of issuance thereof. Series 2012 Bonds authenticated and delivered after ________, 20__ shall be
dated the [______] or [______] preceding the date of their authentication and delivery to which interest
has been paid or duly provided for, except Series 2012 Bonds authenticated and delivered on a
[________] or [_______] to which interest has been paid or duly provided shall be dated on a [_______]
or [______].
(C)
All Series 2012 Bonds shall bear interest payable on each Interest Payment Date,
computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
(D)
The Series 2012 Bonds shall mature on November 15 of each of the years and in the
principal amounts and shall bear interest at the respective rates per annum set forth below:

 page 87
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d

YEAR

PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT

INTEREST
RATE

(E)
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be in Authorized Denominations (but no single Series 2012
Bond shall represent principal maturing on more than one date) and shall be numbered consecutively but
need not be authenticated or delivered in consecutive order. The Series 2012 Bonds and the Trustee’s
Certificate of Authentication shall be in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto and
by reference made a part hereof with such variations, omissions or insertions as are required or permitted
by this First Supplemental Indenture.
(F)
The Principal and Redemption Price of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be payable at the
designated corporate trust offices of the Trustee, in Chicago, Illinois, as Paying Agent, and at such offices
of any co-Paying Agent or successor Paying Agent or Paying Agents for the Series 2012 Bonds appointed
pursuant to the Indenture. The payment of interest on the Series 2012 Bonds shall be made on each
Interest Payment Date to the Owners of the Series 2012 Bonds by check or draft mailed on the applicable
Interest Payment Date to each Owner as such Owner appears on the Bond Register maintained by the
Registrar as of the close of business on the Record Date, at his address as it appears on the Bond Register.
Any Owner of any of the Series 2012 Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of at least $1,000,000 shall
be entitled to have interest paid by wire transfer to such Owner to the bank account number on file with
the Trustee and Paying Agent, upon requesting the same in a writing received by the Trustee and Paying
Agent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, which writing shall specify the
bank, which shall be a bank within the continental United States, and bank account number to which
interest payments are to be wired. Any such request for interest payments by wire transfer shall remain in
effect until rescinded or changed, in a writing delivered by the Owner to the Trustee and Paying Agent,
and any such rescission or change of wire transfer instructions must be received by the Trustee and
Paying Agent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. To the extent not
otherwise expressly provided in this Section 201, the Series 2012 Bonds shall be subject to the general
terms and provisions set forth in Article III of the Master Indenture.
(G)
The net proceeds, [including accrued interest], of the Series 2012 Bonds upon receipt
shall be deposited as follows:

(i)
[$ __________ shall be deposited into the Interest Sub-Account and applied
pursuant to Section 504(B)(1) of the Master Indenture; ]
(ii)
$_________ shall be deposited into the Series 2012 Project Account and applied
pursuant to Section 503(B) of the Master Indenture; and

 page 88
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d

(iii) $__________ shall be applied by the Chief Financial Officer to the payment of
the costs of issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds, [including payment of the premium for the Series
2012 Bond Insurance Policy] and any such amounts not so applied on the date of issuance of the
Series 2012 Bonds shall be deposited by the County in the Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account
and applied pursuant to Section 402(A) hereof.
Section 1402. Authentication of Series 2012 Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be
authenticated as set forth in the Master Indenture. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be issued only as one
fully registered bond per maturity and deposited with The Depository Trust Company, New York, New
York (“DTC”), who is responsible for establishing and maintaining records of ownership for its
participants. In the event DTC, any successor of DTC or the County elects to discontinue the book-entry
only system, the Trustee shall deliver bond certificates in accordance with the instructions from DTC or
its successor and after such time Series 2012 Bonds may be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal
amount of the Series 2012 Bonds in other Authorized Denominations and of the same maturity upon
surrender thereof at the corporate trust office of the Trustee.
ARTICLE XV
REDEMPTION OF BONDS
Section 1501.
(A)

Mandatory Sinking Fund and Optional Redemption of Series 2012 Bonds

Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption.

The Series 2012 Bonds maturing on November 15, 20__ are subject to redemption prior to
maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the principal amount thereof, by application by the Trustee of
funds on deposit to the credit of the Principal Sub-Account. Deposits to be applied to Sinking Fund
Installments shall be made during each Fiscal Year into the Principal Sub-Account in amounts which will
make possible the retirement, by purchase during the Fiscal Year or by redemption on the first day of the
following Fiscal Year, of Series 2012 Bonds maturing on said date in the aggregate principal amounts set
forth in the following table opposite each such following Fiscal Year, as adjusted pursuant to Section 505
of the Master Indenture:
SERIES 2012 BONDS DUE ___________, 20__
REDEMPTION DATE
(__________)

FISCAL YEAR
OF DEPOSITS

AMOUNT

 page 89
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(B)

Optional Redemption.

The Series 2012 Bonds maturing on and after November 15, 20__ are subject to redemption at the
election or direction of the County prior to maturity in whole or in part in any order of maturity
designated by the County, in integral multiples of $5,000, on any date on or after _______, 20__, at a
Redemption Price of ___% of the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds to be redeemed
plus accrued interest thereon to the date fixed for redemption.
Section 1502. Provisions for Redemption of Series 2012 Bonds. Series 2012 Bonds shall be
redeemed in accordance with the provisions and requirements of Article IV of the Master Indenture.
Article XVI
REVENUES AND FUNDS
Section 1601. Establishment of Series 2012 Project Account. In connection with the issuance
of the Series 2012 Bonds, the County hereby establishes a separate, segregated account within the Project
Fund to be known as the “Series 2012 Project Account.” Proceeds of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be
deposited into the Project Account as provided in Section 503(A) of the Master Indenture. Amounts on
deposit in the Series 2012 Project Account shall be applied upon the written direction of an Authorized
Officer to pay the costs of the Series 2012 Project and to pay the costs related to the issuance of the Series
2012 Bonds.
Section 1602. Establishment of Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account. In connection with the
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds, the County hereby establishes a separate, segregated account within
the Project Fund to be known as the “Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account.” Proceeds of the Series
2012 Bonds shall be deposited into the Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account as provided in Section
503(A) of the Master Indenture. Amounts on deposit in the Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account shall
be applied upon the written direction of an Authorized Officer to pay the costs related to the issuance of
the Series 2012 Bonds.
Moneys in the Series 2012 Costs of Issuance Account shall be invested at the direction of an
Authorized Officer to the fullest extent practicable in Investment Securities maturing in such amounts and
at such times as may be necessary to provide funds when needed to pay the costs related to the issuance of
the Series 2012 Bonds. The County may, and to the extent required for payments from the Series 2012
Costs of Issuance Account shall, sell any such Investment Securities at any time, and the proceeds of such
sale, and of all payments at maturity and upon redemption of such investments, shall be held in the Series
2012 Costs of Issuance Account. Earnings received on moneys or securities in the Series 2012 Costs of
Issuance Account shall be held as a part of such Account and available for the purposes for which moneys
in such Account are otherwise held. Any amounts remaining in the Series 2012 Costs of Issuance
Account on December 31, 2012 shall be transferred to the Series 2012 Project Account.

 page 90
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
ARTICLE XVII
[PROVISIONS RELATING TO SERIES 2012 BOND INSURANCE POLICY
AND SERIES 2012 BOND INSURER]

ARTICLE XVIII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1801. Supplements and Amendments. The County and the Trustee may supplement or
amend this First Supplemental Indenture in the manner set forth in Articles X and XI of the Master
Indenture.
Section 1802. Effect of Master Indenture. To the extent not otherwise expressly provided for in
this First Supplemental Indenture, all terms and provisions relating to the Series 2012 Bonds, the
application of the proceeds thereof, the collection and application of the Pledged Sales Tax Revenues, and
the rights and obligations of the County, the Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be
governed by the provisions of the Master Indenture, which provisions are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 1803. Parties Interested Herein. Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture
expressed or implied is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or to give to, any Person, other than
the County, the Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Bonds, any right, remedy or claim under or by reason
of the Indenture or any covenant, condition or stipulation thereof; and all the covenants, stipulations,
promises and agreements in the Indenture contained by and on behalf of the County shall be for the sole
and exclusive benefit of the County, the Fiduciaries and the Owners of the Bonds.
Section 1804.

No Recourse on the Bonds.

(A)
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the Principal or Redemption Price of or
interest on the Series 2012 Bonds or for any claim based hereon or on the Indenture against any past,
present or future member, director, officer, employee or agent of the County, or any successor, public
body or any person executing the Series 2012 Bonds, either directly or through the County, under any rule
of law or equity, statute or institution or otherwise, and all such liability of any such officers, directors,
members, employees or agents as such is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of an in
consideration for the execution of this First Supplemental Indenture and the issuance of the Series 2012
Bonds.
(B)
No officer, director, agent or employee of the County shall be individually or personally
liable for the payment of the Principal or Redemption Price of or interest on the Series 2012 Bonds; but
nothing herein contained shall relieve any such officer, director, agent or employee from the performance
of any official duty provided by law.

 page 91
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
(C)
All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the County contained in the
Indenture shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the County to the
full extent authorized and permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State, and no covenants,
stipulations, obligations or agreements contained herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, stipulation,
obligation or agreement of any present or future officer, director, agent or employee of the County in his
or her individual capacity, and no officer executing the Series 2012 Bonds shall be liable personally on
the Series 2012 Bonds or be subject to any personal liability accountability by reason of the issue thereof.
No officer, director, agent or employee of the County shall incur any personal liability in acting or
proceeding or in not acting or not proceeding in the Ordinance with the terms of the Indenture.
Section 1805. Successors and Assigns. Whenever in this First Supplemental Indenture the
County is named or referred to, it shall be deemed to include its successors and assigns and all covenants
and agreements in the Indenture contained by or on behalf of the County shall bind inure to the benefit of
its successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
Section 1806. Severability of Invalid Provisions. If any one or more of the covenants or
ingredients provided in this First Supplemental Indenture on the part of the County or any Fiduciary to be
performed should be contrary to law, then such covenant or covenants or agreement or agreements shall
be deemed severable from the remaining covenants and agreements; and shall in no way affect the
validity of any other provisions of the Indenture.
Section 1807. Notices.. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other instruments authorized
or required by the Indenture to be given to, delivered to or filed with the County or the Trustee shall be
deemed to have been sufficiently given, delivered or filed for all purposes of the Indenture if and when
sent by registered mail, return receipt requested:
To the County, if addressed to:

County of Cook, Illinois
118
North
Clark
Street,
Chicago,
Illinois
Attention: Chief Financial Officer

Room

1127
60602

and at such other address as may be subsequently designated in writing by the County to the
Trustee; and
To the Trustee, if addressed to:

__________________________
__________________
__________________
Attention: _________________

and at such other address as may be subsequently designated in writing by the Trustee to the
County.

 page 92
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Section 1808. Construction.
This First Supplemental Indenture shall be construed in
accordance with the provisions of State law without reference to its conflict of law principles.
Section 1809. Headings Not a Part of This First Supplemental Indenture. Any headings
preceding the texts of the several Articles and Sections hereof, and any Table of Contents appended to
copies hereof, are solely for convenience of reference and do not constitute a part of this Indenture, nor do
they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1810. Multiple Counterparts. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in
multiple counterparts, each of which shall be regarded for all purposes as an original; and such
counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the County of Cook, Illinois has caused this First Supplemental Indenture
to be executed in its name and its behalf by its Chief Financial Officer and _______________,
____________ has caused this Indenture to be executed in its behalf by its Vice President and its
corporate seal to be impressed hereon and attested by its Trust Officer, all as of the day and year first
above written.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REPORT
ITEM #12
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 11, 2012 from
ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Budget and Management Services
and
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
submitting the Bond Series Status Report for the 2nd Quarter of 2012 Fiscal Year, ending May 31, 2012
in accordance with FY 2012 Resolution Section Number 16. The report consists of two (2) sections; the
first section defines the bond funding status for Capital Improvement and the second section for
Equipment approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The report presents the projected
cost, adjustments to the projected cost, expenditures and commitments, unencumbered balances, existing
funding resources and future funding resources required for the approved projects and equipment after the
end of the quarter.

 page 93
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER
REPORTS
ITEM #13
Transmitting a Communication from
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Bills and Claims Report for the period of June 8-27, 2012.
This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code Chapter 34-125
(k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being
drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
*****
ITEM #14
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for fiscal year ended November 30,
2011.
submitting herewith a copy of Cook County's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for the
fiscal year ended November 30, 2011, prepared by the Cook County Comptroller and audited by
McGladrey LLP. respectfully request that the report be referred to the Cook County Board's Audit
Committee for further consideration.
*****

 page 94
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER continued
REPORTS continued
ITEM #15
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Cook County Basic Financial Statements (with reference to Governmental Auditing
Standards) for the year ended November 30, 2011.
*****
ITEM #16
Transmitting a Communication, dated from June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Cook County Management Letter for the year ended November 30, 2011.
*****
ITEM #17
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Cook County Health and Hospital System of Illinois Financial Statements for the year
ended November 30, 2011.
*****

 page 95
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER continued
REPORTS continued
ITEM #18
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Cook County Health and Hospital System of Illinois Management Letter for the year
ended November 30, 2011.
*****
ITEM #19
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the Cook County OMB Circular A-133 Single Audit Report for the year ended November 30,
2011.
*****
ITEM #20
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
TARIQ MALHANCE, Chief Financial Officer
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim Comptroller
submitting the AON Worker’s Compensation and Self Insurance Liability Actuarial Report for the year
ended November 30, 2011.

 page 96
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER
PROPOSED CONTRACTS
ITEM #21
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with
Pyramid Enterprise Supplies, Solon, Ohio, for Uniforms - Lot A.
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On November 30, 2011 bids were solicited for 11-45-155A for uniforms.
Three (3) bids were received for Lot A. The uniforms will be used by detainees in the
custody of the Cook County Sheriff and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. The cost
savings for this bid are estimated at $8,555.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,680,230.00 (FY 2012: $350,048.00; FY 2013: $840,115.00; and FY 2014:
$490,067.00). Contract period: Twenty-Four months with three (3) additional one-year renewal options.
(Various-320 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013 and 2014.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #22
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with
Gordon’s Auto Repair, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for automobile maintenance and repair (Zone 4).

 page 97
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On February 8, 2012 bids were solicited for Contract No. 11-53-185 for
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County Zone 4. Three (3) bids were received.
Gordon’s Auto Repair was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is recommended
for award. The auto maintenance services will be provided for various Cook County
agencies. It has been determined that the auto maintenance services that are provided under
this contract will provide a savings of $6,656.00 based on previous year’s pricing.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $258,003.00 (FY 2012: $35,834.00; FY 2013: $86,001.00; FY 2014:
$86,001.00; and FY 2015: $50,167.00). Contract period: Thirty-six months with two (2) one-year
renewal options. (Various-444 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013, 2014 and 2015 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #23
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with
Gordon’s Auto Repair, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for automobile maintenance and repair (Zone 5).
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On February 8, 2012 bids were solicited for Contract No. 11-53-185 for
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County Zone 5. One (1) bid was received.
Gordon’s Auto Repair was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is recommended
for award. The auto maintenance services will be provided for various Cook County
agencies. It has been determined that the auto maintenance services that are provided under
this contract will provide a savings of $8,052.00 based on previous year’s pricing.

 page 98
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #23 cont’d
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $312,075.00 (FY 2012: $43,344.00; FY 2013: $104,025.00; FY 2014:
$104,025.00; and FY 2015: $60,681.00). Contract period: Thirty-six months with two (2) one-year
renewal options. (Various-444 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013, 2014 and 2015 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #24
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with E &
R Towing and Garage, Inc., Markham, Illinois, for automobile maintenance and repair (Zone 7).
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On February 8, 2012 bids were solicited for Contract No. 11-53-185 for
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County Zone 7. Two (2) bids were received. E
& R Towing and Garage, Inc. was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is
recommended for award. The auto maintenance services will be provided for various Cook
County agencies. It has been determined that the auto maintenance services that are provided
under this contract will provide a savings of $9,355.00 based on previous year’s pricing.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $362,607.00 (FY 2012: $50,362.00; FY 2013: $120,869.00; FY 2014:
$120,869.00; and FY 2015: $70,507.00). Contract period: Thirty-six months with two (2) one-year
renewal options. (Various-444 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013, 2014 and 2015 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****

 page 99
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #25
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with E &
R Towing and Garage, Inc., Chicago Heights, Illinois, for automobile maintenance and repair (Zone 8).
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On February 8, 2012 bids were solicited for Contract No. 11-53-185 for
automobile maintenance and repair for Cook County Zone 8. One (1) bid was received. E &
R Towing and Garage, Inc. was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is
recommended for award. The auto maintenance services will be provided for various Cook
County agencies. It has been determined that the auto maintenance services that are provided
under this contract will provide a savings of $9,355.00 based on previous year’s pricing.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $362,607.00 (FY 2012: $50,362.00; FY 2013: $120,869.00; FY 2014:
$120,869.00; and FY 2015: $70,507.00). Contract period: Thirty-six months with two (2) one-year
renewal options. (Various-444 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013, 2014 and 2015 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #26
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 10, 2012 from
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
requesting authorization to increase by $1,520,000.00, Contract No. 12-84-072 with W. W. Grainger,
Inc., Lake Forest, Illinois, for maintenance, repair and operational supplies.
Board approved amount 04-17-12:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$1,350,000.00
1,520,000.00
$2,870,000.00

 page 100
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER continued
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM continued
ITEM #26 cont’d
Reason:

The Cook County Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (DHSEM)
is requesting a portion of this increase in order to expend allocated grant funds for the
purchase of homeland security and emergency management supplies and equipment for first
responders throughout Cook County. The additional funds will be required for other using
departments including, but not limited to Facilities Management, Highway, Environmental
Control, Sheriff and Clerk of the Circuit Court. The expiration date of the current contract is
December 31, 2012.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,520,000.00. (Various-333 Accounts).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #27
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 4, 2012 from
LISA M. WALIK, Director, Department of Risk Management
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase by $800,000.00 and extend for one
(1) year, Contract No. 09-41-49 with Genex Services, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania, for Workers
Compensation Bill Review and Case Management Services.
Board approved amount 05-19-09:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$2,250,000.00
800,000.00
$3,050,000.00

 page 101
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT continued
PROPOSED CONTRACT ADDENDUM continued
ITEM #27 cont’d
Reason:

The Workers’ Compensation services have been included in a Request for Proposal (RFP)
that was recently posted by the Bureau of Human Resources for integrated Absence
Management Services. This extension will ensure continuity of operations and cost-saving
initiatives while the RFP responses are being reviewed and evaluated by the Evaluation
Committee.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $800,000.00. Contract extension: August 1, 2012 through July 31,
2013. (542-845 Account). Self-Insurance Fund. The costs are associated and allocated to individual
workers' compensation claim files. The savings from this program exceed the anticipated costs.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

 page 102
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
ITEM #28
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 21, 2012 from
DEBORAH STONE, Director, Department of Environmental Control
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $254,316.00 from U.S. Environmental
Protection agency for PM2.5 Monitoring Network. Through this cooperative agreement Cook County
will operate its fine particulate matter (PM2.5) monitoring network, collecting samples at the sites and
performing analysis to determine the level of PM2.5 in Cook County Illinois.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $254,316.00. Funding period: April 1, 2012 -through
March 31, 2013.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #29
Transmitting a Communication from
DEBORAH STONE, Director, Department of Environmental Control
respectfully submitting an amendment to the Asbestos and Related Substance Article of the County Code
for your approval.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO THE ASBESTOS AND RELATED SUBSTANCES ARTICLE
OF THE COUNTY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 30 Environment,
Sections 30-541 through 30-551 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:

 page 103
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
Sec. 30-541. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequately Wet means sufficiently mixed or penetrated with liquid to prevent the release of
particulates. Upon inspection, water has visibly attached itself to the Asbestos Containing Material
(ACM).
Alteration means any change, addition, or modification of a structure or one or more structural
components in any way, including but not limited to the stripping or removal of ACM from a structural
component.
Applicant means the owner of a building or property who is required to obtain a permit under this
Article and any agent of the owner who applies for said permit on behalf of the owner.
Asbestos means any fiber or any mixture containing fiber of hydrated silicate mineral, which, on
the basis of its crystalline structure, falls into one of two categories:
(1)

Pyroxenes (chrysotile fiber);

(2)

Amphiboles (crocidolite, amosite, tremolite, actinolite or anthophilite fiber).

Asbestos-containing material (ACM) means any material containing more than one percent (1%)
asbestos as determined using the method specified in EPA regulations Appendix E, Subpart E, 40 CFR
Part 763, Section l, Polarized Light Microscopy.
Asbestos Abatement Contractor means any Person, firm or corporation engaged in asbestos
removal and abatement activities in Cook County, outside of the limits of the City of Chicago.
Certificate of Registration means the physical documentation issued by the Cook County
Department of Environmental Control.
Commercial activity means any activity done for hire or having financial profit as a primary aim.
Cutting means to penetrate with a sharp-edged instrument and includes sawing, shearing, slicing,
or punching.
Debris means asbestos-containing waste produced by the demolition of a structure.

 page 104
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
Demolition means the deconstructing, destroying, razing, tearing down, alteration or wrecking of
any structure or removal of any load-supporting structural member of a facility together with any related
handling operations.
Demolition Project means the demolition of any load-bearing or non-load-bearing building or
portion of a building that may or may not contain ACM.
Department means the Cook County Department of Environmental Control.
Director means the Director of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control.
Engage in Asbestos Abatement Activity shall refer to those activities provided in Sections 30-541
through 30-550 of the Ordinances of Cook County.
Federal, State, or Local Regulations means a law, administrative rule, or regulation of the federal
government, any state in the United States of America, or any unit of local government, including, but not
limited to, cities, counties, municipalities, or townships.
Permit Holder means the person who has received a permit under this Article VI.
Person or Persons means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, association,
limited liability company, sole proprietorship or other legal entity.
Project Supervisor means a licensed asbestos abatement contractor, foreman, or person
designated as the asbestos abatement contractor's representative who is responsible for the onsite
supervision of the removal, encapsulation, or enclosure of asbestos-containing materials.
Project means any activity which requires an application for any permit required by this Article
VI.
Spraying means the pneumatic application of material used for fireproofing or insulation.
Strip means to take off ACM from any part of a structure or structural components.
Structure means any building, or part thereof, enclosing any occupancy including residential,
institutional, assembly, business, mercantile, industrial, storage, hazardous and miscellaneous uses.
When separated by fire walls, each unit so separated shall be deemed a separate structure.
Structural component means any pipe, duct, boiler, tank, reactor, turbine, or furnace at or in a
structure, or any structural member of the structure.

 page 105
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
Structural member means any vertical or horizontal load-bearing member of a structure which
supports dead or live loads in addition to its own weight and includes, but is not limited to, a foundation,
an exterior or interior load-bearing wall, a column, a column beam, a floor, and a roof structure.
Waste means any asbestos-containing matter which has been or is intended to be discarded.
Sec. 30-542. General requirements.
(a)
Restrictions on activities involving discharge of asbestos into air. After April 1, 1978, no
commercial activity not otherwise hereinafter prohibited, involving the potential discharge of visible
amounts of asbestos fiber or asbestos-containing materials into the ambient air from the construction,
alteration, repair or demolition of a structure or structural component from the processing or
manufacturing of asbestos-containing products, shall be conducted unless the person or entity in charge of
such activity complies with the following regulations:
(1)
Personnel shall be designated to exercise full-time supervisory authority over all aspects
of the activity from which the release of asbestos fiber into the environment could result, in such a manner
as to insure compliance with the pertinent asbestos control regulations.
(2)
Each employee engaged in such activity shall complete a course of instruction on the
potential hazards of exposure to asbestos fiber, including the precautions that must be observed to prevent
or restrict the dispersion of asbestos fiber into the environment.
(3)
Facilities shall be provided and procedures instituted and supervised that prevent the
removal from the site of visible amounts of asbestos-containing material on the clothing of the employees.
(4)
Asbestos-containing wastes shall be immediately vacuumed or otherwise collected where
vacuuming is impossible and shall be placed in a container resistant to tearing or breaking under normal
handling conditions, which shall be tightly sealed and clearly marked as containing asbestos-waste. Such
waste material or container shall be disposed of by burial at a sanitary landfill.
(5)
Waste manifests and air monitoring reports or air clearance reports are required to be
submitted to the Cook County Department of Environmental Control within ten (10) business days of the
expiration of the asbestos removal permit.
(b)
Application of Subsection (a)(4) of this section. Subsection (a)(4) of this section shall
not apply to the demolition of a structure, except as provided in Section 30-544(a)(4) and (5).

 page 106
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(c) (b) Permit required for manufacture of asbestos-containing products. After April 1, 1978, the
manufacturing or processing of asbestos containing products is prohibited, unless the person or entity in
charge of such activity has obtained a permit from the Director. Before obtaining such permit, the
applicant shall demonstrate compliance with this section and such additional standards as are hereinafter
specifically required.
(c)

Cutting, trimming, fitting or stripping of asbestos containing material.

(1)
The cutting, trimming, fitting or stripping of asbestos-containing material in the
construction, alteration or repair of a structure or structural component which is done at the site of such
structure in an area open to the atmosphere shall be conducted within a special enclosure designed to
preclude the escape of asbestos fiber from the immediate area of such enclosure.
(2)
The mechanical exhaustion of dust from such enclosure to the ambient air is prohibited
unless such exhaust system is equipped with a properly sized fabric filter for dust collection or an
equivalent device as approved by the agency.
(d)
Asbestos-containing material applied in construction, alteration or repair of structure or
structural component. Asbestos-containing material applied in the construction, alteration or repair of a
structure or structural component shall be coated with a sealant, provided with a cover or installed in some
other manner so as to preclude emission of the asbestos-containing material to the circulating air. Any
plenum or other structure coated with or containing asbestos-containing insulation and used in the
circulation of air in a building shall be thoroughly cleaned of all debris and waste insulation.
(e)
Asbestos-containing debris shall not be dropped or thrown from any floor but shall be
transported by dust-tight chutes or buckets shall be adequately wetted to preclude dust dispersion at the
point of discharge.
(f)
All asbestos-containing debris shall be adequately wetted before loading into trucks, other
vehicles or containers. During transport such asbestos-containing waste shall be enclosed or covered so as
to prevent dust dispersion. Asbestos-containing debris shall be disposed by burial at a sanitary landfill.
(g)
Standard for demolition, alteration or repair of asbestos-containing structures or
structural component.
(1)

Contractor certification and performance.

 page 107
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d

(h)

a.

Any person engaged in the commercial activity of construction, demolition,
alteration or repair of a structure for which has been determined asbestoscontaining material is present must present proof that the person possesses a valid
license issued pursuant to the Asbestos Abatement Act (105 ILCS 105/1 et seq.)
to the Department.

b.

Any person engaged in asbestos removal activity shall be obligated to notify the
Department and comply in the same manner as required in 40 CFR 61.141, 40
CFR 61.145 and 40 CFR 61.150.

c.

Any person engaged in the commercial activity of asbestos removal shall comply
with Illinois Pollution Control Board Regulations Asbestos 35 Ill. Admin. Code
228.

Permit required; Fees
a.

A demolition permit shall be obtained from the Director prior to any demolition
of any structure as set out in Sec. 30-961. The permit fees for demolition of
structures on a property that is zoned as residential, commercial or industrial shall
be as set out in Section 32-1.

(2)

An asbestos removal permit shall be required for all demolition, alteration or repair of any
asbestos-containing structure or structural component in addition to a demolition permit,
if required by Sec.30-961 and shall be obtained prior to the start of a project. Application
for this permit must be submitted no less than 10 business days prior to the start of the
project. This permit is valid for 30 days after issuance and the contractor may not be offsite for more than 10 consecutive days during the permitted time. The permit fee for
asbestos removal shall be as set out in Section 32-1. Inspection fee shall not be applicable
to structures used primarily as a domestic residence.

(3)

Any of the permits may be revised up to six times before a new permit is required. Each
time a permit is revised, (including, but not limited to, date revisions) a revision fee will
be required in the amount set out in Section 32-1

(4)

No demolition permit shall be issued unless the applicant has submitted all information
required by Sections 30-961 through 30-967.

 page 108
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(5)

An application for a demolition permit may be submitted less than the required 10
business days time period in cases where the public safety is at risk. In such cases, the
applicant must submit a letter explaining the nature of the public safety risk, a completed
application and copies of the check for the permit and variance filing fees, as set out in
Sec. 32-1 via email or facsimile.

(i)

Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit; Fees

(1)

An Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit is available for large
commercial and industrial sites, healthcare facilities and schools with ongoing asbestos
mitigation projects. Permit Filing Fees shall be as set out in Sec. 32-1

(2)

To obtain an Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit an applicant must
submit a written request to the Director or his or her designee no less than 15 days prior
to the scheduled start of the asbestos renovation project. This request shall include, but
not be limited to, a completed Cook County notification form, an explanation of the
unique circumstances involved in the project, schematic drawings and blueprints (when
available) of the structure and a filing fee as set out in Sec. 32-1

(3)

Issuance of an Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit is subject to
departmental approval. The Department shall issue a written response to the petitioner.
The Department’s decision is final. If the request is denied, the filing fee will be
returned.

(4)

An Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit is applicable for one building,
regardless of connecting enclosed walkways or underground tunnels. A separate request
must be filed for each free standing structure on the premises or campus.

(5)

An Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit is non-transferrable to a new
person, or different location.

(6)

An Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit is valid for one calendar year,
beginning on January 1 of each year. The permit holder may use the permit at any
time during the year, until the expiration of the permit on December 31 of each
year. Upon expiration of an existing permit, the permit holder may reapply for a new
permit for the project.

 page 109
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(7)

An Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Permit requires notification of the
Department by email or fax transmission prior to starting each removal episode. The
notice must include the location within the building where work is to be performed, onsite
contact information and the anticipated work hours. Within 48 hours of each episode’s
completion the permit holder must submit a written summary of the episode.

(8)

The permit holder shall submit to the Department a chronological summary of the project
and payment made based on the required inspectional fees as set out in Sec. 32-1.
Healthcare facilities and schools shall submit a project summary and inspection fee
payment every six months. Commercial and industrial facilities shall submit a project
summary and inspection fee payment every quarter.

Sec. 30-543. Construction, alteration and repair of a structure.-Fibrous material restrictions.
(a)
Spraying of asbestos-containing material prohibited. The spraying of asbestos-containing
material is prohibited after April 1, 1978.
(b)
Procedure for spraying nonasbestos fibrous material. Nonasbestos fibrous matter shall
not be sprayed in an area open to the atmosphere, unless the following procedures are taken:
(1)

The entire floor or area to be sprayed shall be enclosed with plastic-coated tarpaulins in a
manner which shall preclude the escape of fiber-containing material from the enclosure.
All interior open area such as elevator shafts and stairwells shall be enclosed in a manner
which shall prevent the escape of fiber-containing material from the enclosure. All
interior open areas such as elevator shafts and stairwells shall be enclosed in a manner
which shall prevent the escape of fiber-containing material from the working area.

a.

The entire sprayed area, all ledges and surfaces, including tarpaulins within the
enclosure, shall be thoroughly vacuumed upon completion of the spraying
operation and immediately before the enclosure is dismantled.

(c)

Cutting, trimming, fitting or stripping of asbestos containing material.

(1)

The cutting, trimming, fitting or stripping of asbestos-containing material in the
construction, ALTERATION or repair of a structure which is done at the site of
such structure in an area open to the atmosphere shall be conducted within a
special enclosure designed to preclude the escape of asbestos fiber from the immediate
area of such enclosure.

 page 110
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d

a.

The mechanical exhaustion of dust from such enclosure to the ambient air is
prohibited unless such exhaust system is equipped with a properly sized fabric
filter for dust collection or an equivalent device as approved by the agency.

(dc)
Visible emissions of fiber-containing material considered violation. Compliance with
Subsections (b) and (c)542(c) and 543(b) of this section notwithstanding, visible emissions of fibercontaining material in an area open to the atmosphere shall be considered a violation.
(e)
Asbestos-containing material applied in construction, ALTERATION or repair of
structure. Asbestos-containing material applied in the construction, ALTERATION or repair of a structure
shall be coated with a sealant, provided with a cover or installed in some other manner so as to preclude
emission of the asbestos-containing material to the circulating air. Any plenum or other structure coated
with or containing asbestos-containing insulation and used in the circulation of air in a building shall be
thoroughly cleaned of all debris and waste insulation.
Sec. 30-544. Demolition of asbestos containing structure.
(a)
Procedure for demolition of asbestos containing structure. Where the risk of public
exposure to asbestos fiber from the dislodging of asbestos-containing materials is present, no demolition
of a structure shall be initiated unless all safeguards necessary and practicable to reduce the emission of
dust are taken. Such procedures shall include, but are not necessarily limited to:
(1)

Boilers and pipes and steel members insulated or fireproofed with asbestos-containing
material shall be adequately wetted and stripped before toppling of walls is begun. This
procedure shall be followed, where practicable, as to all other asbestos-lined surfaces.
Such asbestos-containing waste shall be immediately bagged and disposed of in
accordance with Section 30-542(a)(4).

(2)

When demolition by toppling occurs such reasonable enclosure for dust emission control
as is compatible with the character of the structure shall be employed.

(3)

Before the demolition or toppling of any section or wall of the structure, adequate wetting
to suppress the dust shall be employed.

(4)

Asbestos-containing debris shall not be dropped or thrown from any floor but shall be
transported by dust-tight chutes or buckets shall be sufficiently adequately wetted to
preclude dust dispersion at the point of discharge.

 page 111
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(5)

All asbestos-containing debris shall be thoroughly adequately wetted before loading into
trucks, other vehicles or containers. During transport such waste shall be enclosed or
covered so as to prevent dust dispersion. Asbestos-containing debris shall be disposed by
burial at a sanitary landfill.

(b)

Standard for demolition of structures.

(1)

Contractor certification and performance.

(2)

a.

Any person engaged in the commercial activity of construction, demolition,
alteration or repair of a structure for which has been determined asbestoscontaining material is present must present proof that the person possesses a valid
license issued pursuant to the Asbestos Abatement Act (105 ILCS 105/1 et seq.)
to the Department.

b.

Any person engaged in asbestos removal activity shall be obligated to notify the
Department and comply in the same manner as required in 40 CFR 61.141, 40
CFR 61.145 and 40 CFR 61.150.

c.

Any person engaged in the commercial activity of asbestos removal shall comply
with Illinois Pollution Control Board Regulations Asbestos 35 Ill. Admin. Code
228.

Permit required—fees.
a.

A demolition permit shall be obtained from the Director prior to any demolition
of any structure. The permit fees for demolition of structures on a property that is
zoned as residential, commercial or industrial shall be as set out in Section 32-1

b.

An asbestos removal permit shall be required for all demolition, alteration or
repair of a structure which has been determined to contain asbestos-containing
material. Such permit will be in lieu of requirements of Section 30-544 and shall
be obtained prior to the start of a project. The permit fee for asbestos removal
shall be as set out in Section 32-1. Inspection fee shall not be applicable to
structures used primarily as a domestic residence.

c.

Any of the permits may be revised up to six times before a new permit is
required. Each time a permit is revised, (including, but not limited to, date
revisions) a revision fee will be required in the amount set out in Section 32-1

 page 112
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
d.

Permit fees under Subsections (b)(2)a and (b)(2)b of this section shall be
established in accordance with Section 30-91 and thereafter Sections 30-92
through 30-95 shall be applicable.

Sec. 30-545. Sampling and counting or particulate matter from manufacture of asbestos-containing
product.
After April 1, 1978, a factory, plant or enterprise which engages in the processing or
manufacturing of any asbestos-containing product shall discharge no visible emission of particulate matter
from such manufacturing or processing into the ambient air and shall emit no concentrations of asbestos
fiber into the ambient air in excess of two fibers per cubic centimeter of air.
(1)

Sampling of emissions shall be by the membrane filter method and according to the
procedures recommended in the ASME Power Test Code 27-1957, or other procedures
generally accepted by persons knowledgeable in the state of the art.

(2)

Counting shall be according to the procedure outlined in Edwards, G. H. and Lynch, J. R.,
"The Method Used by the U.S. Public Health Service for Enumeration of Asbestos Dust
on Membrane Filters," Ann. Occupational Hyg. (Oxford) 11 (1): 1-6 Jan. '68; with 20
fields per sample, counted at random using phase contrast microscopy at 430x
magnification and counting only fibers 5 microns or greater in length, with a length to
breadth ratio of three to one or greater.

Sec. 30-546. Controlling asbestos handling facilities.
Any factory, plant or enterprise which engages in the processing or manufacturing of any asbestos
containing product shall control all asbestos handling facilities so that exhaust air can be ducted through
necessary air pollution control equipment and samples taken of the gases which are emitted into the
ambient air.
Sec. 30-547. Inspection.
(a)
Any factory, plant or enterprise for which a permit is sought or has been granted pursuant
to Section 30-542(cb) shall be subject to inspection by the Department at any reasonable time, without
prior notice.
(b)
In the event the Department inspects a work site where Asbestos Abatement Activity is
taking place, the Asbestos Abatement Contractor must cooperate with the Department's attempts to
monitor activity to ensure that safety concerns are appropriately addressed. Upon request, the Asbestos
Abatement Contractor will be required to produce required information, including, but not limited to, the
following:

 page 113
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(1)

A copy of the Certificate of Registration; and

(2)

Documentation verifying that all employees at that worksite have the appropriate
licensure through the Illinois Department of Public Health, if licensure is required.

Sec. 30-548. Sampling.
At a frequency to be determined by the Agency, any factory, plant or enterprise which engages in
the processing or manufacturing of any asbestos-containing product shall sample the exhaust from such
factory, plant or enterprise and submit the emission data to the Agency.
Sec. 30-549. Transporting.
No product which may emit asbestos-fiber during its transportation shall be transported unless
such product be enclosed so as to preclude the emission of asbestos fiber into ambient air.
Sec. 30-550. Violation.
Notwithstanding compliance with Section 30-549 the visible emission of particulate matter in the
course of such transportation shall be considered a violation.
Sec. 30-551. Asbestos abatement contractor registration, registration fees and penalties.
(a)
In order to ensure that the health and safety of the public is protected from the harmful
effects of exposure to asbestos materials caused by negligent or improper Asbestos Abatement Activities,
all Asbestos Abatement Contractors doing business in Cook County outside the corporate limits of the
City of Chicago must register with the Department of Environmental Control.
(b)
No Asbestos Abatement Contractor shall do business in Cook County outside of the
corporate limits of the City of Chicago without having a currently valid Certificate of Registration issued
by the Department.
(c)
The Department shall prepare and maintain a list of registered Asbestos Abatement
Contractors which list shall be made available upon request.
(d)
To obtain a Certificate of Registration, the Asbestos Abatement Contractor shall complete
an application provided by the Department of Environmental Control. The application shall be returned to
the Department, accompanied by a non-refundable registration fee set forth in Section 32-1 of the
Ordinances of Cook County.

 page 114
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(e)

The application shall require the following information:

(1)

The Asbestos Abatement Contractor's name, mailing address, contact person, phone
number, and e-mail address, together with its form of ownership. If a corporation, a copy
of the corporation's last annual report filed with the Asbestos Abatement Contractor's
state of incorporation. If the Asbestos Abatement Contractor is a corporation, partnership,
or other firm, the substantial owners, as defined in Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367
of the Ordinances of Cook County, shall be identified.

(2)

The Asbestos Abatement Contractor's license number issued by the State of Illinois
Department of Public Health, the date of license expiration and a copy of said license.

(3)

A list of all enforcement actions taken against the Asbestos Abatement Contractor in the
preceding two years for alleged violations of Federal, State or Local Regulations
pertaining to the handling, removal or disposal of asbestos-containing materials, including
information about the alleged violations charged and the disposition.

(4)

The number of years the Person has been doing business as an Asbestos Abatement
Contractor.

(5)

A list of supervisors employed by the Asbestos Abatement Contractor who are licensed
by the Illinois Department of Public Health.

(6)

A list of asbestos containing material removal and abatement techniques that have
previously been employed by the Asbestos Abatement Contractor.

(7)

A list of the names and addresses of waste disposal sites and waste haulers primarily used
by the Asbestos Abatement Contractor.

(8)

Certification by the Asbestos Abatement Contractor that all information furnished to the
Department is true and accurate.

(9)

Other information as required by the Department.

(f)
The application shall require the Asbestos Abatement Contractor to certify compliance
with all Cook County ordinances, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)

Chapter 30, Environment;

(2)

Chapter 34, Article V, Child Support Payments;

 page 115
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(3)

Chapter 38, Article III, Public Health and Private Nuisances;

(4)

Chapter 58, Article III, Offenses Involving Public Safety, and Article IV, Offenses
Involving Public Morals;

(5)

The Cook County Building Ordinance, adopted originally on March 11, 1949, as
amended, and/or the Cook County Building Code;

(6)

Chapter 74, Taxation; or

(7)

The Cook County Zoning Ordinance.

(g)
The Director shall determine whether the applicant satisfies the requirements to be
registered as an Asbestos Abatement Contractor. Upon approval of the application, the Department shall
issue a Certificate of Registration to the asbestos removal contractor. Such Certificate of Registration shall
expire two years following its date of issuance, and shall be renewable.
(h)
The Asbestos Abatement Contractor is required to notify the Department of any material
changes to the registration requirements set forth in Section 30-551(e). The Director of the Department
may revoke the registration if the Asbestos Abatement Contractor fails to notify the Department of any
material changes to the registration requirements identified in Section 30-551(e).
(i)
The Director shall have the authority to deny an application for a Certificate of
Registration. The Director shall provide written notice, via certified mail, of the decision to deny an
Asbestos Abatement Contractor's Registration. Any denial must be made in writing and include a
statement of the public health or safety concern that was the basis of the denial. The Director may deny
issuance of a Certificate of Registration to any Asbestos Abatement Contractor where any one of the
following conditions exists:
(1)

Failure to provide any of the required information on the application.

(2)

Providing false information on the application.

(3)

Outstanding violations, debts or penalties owed to Cook County for violation of any
County ordinance, unless such violations, debts or penalties are being contested or
appealed.

(4)

Failure to have any required licensure by the Illinois Department of Public Health.

 page 116
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(5)

Five or more administrative violations, three or more enforcement actions impacting
public health in the two years preceding the date of application or a combined total of five
administrative and enforcement actions in the two years preceding the date of application.

(j)
If one of the conditions listed in section (i) is found to exist prior to the expiration of the
Certificate of Registration, the Director may revoke the registration after notifying the Asbestos
Abatement Contractor of the violation via certified mail, of the decision. The contractor shall have ten
days from the date of the Director's letter to make a written request for an administrative hearing to
contest the decision or to provide information to the Department that reaffirms that they remain in
compliance with the requirements of the ordinance. The Asbestos Abatement Contractor may reapply for
a Certificate of Registration after a period of 14 business days. Approval of the Certificate of Registration
after a revocation shall be probationary for one year after issuance of the Certificate of Registration. Any
additional violations during the one-year probation will result in the suspension of the Certificate of
Registration for a period of no less than one month and no more than one year.
(k)
Any Certificate of Registration issued by the Department pursuant to this article may be
renewed if the Asbestos Abatement Contractor submits a completed registration renewal application on a
form provided by the Department, and makes payment of a renewal fee set by the Department, consistent
with the provisions of Section 32-1 of the Ordinances of Cook County. Renewal of a Certificate of
Registration may be withheld if the Director finds that evidence exists that renewal of the Certificate of
Registration will present health and safety concerns for the public. The Director may refuse to renew a
Certificate of Registration if any of the conditions identified in Section 30-551(i) exist. The Director shall
provide written notice, via certified mail, of the decision to deny an Asbestos Abatement Contractor's
Registration renewal. Any denial must be made in writing and include a statement of the public health or
safety concern that was the basis of the denial. The applicant shall have 15 days from the date of the
Director's letter to make a written request for an administrative hearing to contest the Director's decision.
(l)
If the Director denies an application for or revokes a Certificate of Registration or an
application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration, the Director shall so notify the Asbestos
Abatement Contractor in writing within 30 days of the decision, including a statement of the basis for the
denial or revocation. The Asbestos Abatement Contractor shall be given the opportunity to contest the
Director's action decision in a hearing as set forth in Article IX, Administrative Hearings, Section 2-901 et
seq. of the Code of Ordinances. The Asbestos Abatement Contractor shall be given written notice at least
seven days before the hearing is scheduled. The Department of Administrative Hearings shall make a final
decision on granting the Certificate of Registration.
(m)
Any person that performs asbestos removal activity governed by this article without
possessing a valid and current Certificate of Registration issued by the Department shall be subject to
fines in accordance with the provisions of Section 30-213 of this article.

 page 117
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
(n)
The Department shall maintain records of any instances of Asbestos Abatement Activity
performed without a Certificate of Registration for five years from the date of the discovery of the
nonauthorized activity and said records shall be considered when reviewing subsequent applications for
registration.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
CHAPTER 30, ENVIRONMENT
30-551

Asbestos Removal Contractor Certificate of Registration, initial or renewed

200.00

30-544(b)(2)a. Demolition permit fee
30-542(h)(1)
30-961(a)
30-544(b)(2)a. Residential filing fee (garage/shed)
30-542(h)(1)

150.00

30-542(h)(1)

Residential Filing fee (4 units or less)

150.00

30-542(h)(2)

Residential fee(5 units or more)

1,000.00

30-544(b)(2)a. Commercial and industrial filing fee
30-542(h)(1)

350.00
1,000.00

30-544(b)(2)a. Inspection fee
30-542(h)(1)

150.00

30-544(b)(2)b. Asbestos removal permit
30-542(h)(2)
30544(b)(2)b.1
30-542(h)(2)

Filing fee

30-542(i).

Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal
facilities and schools

30-542(i).

Operations and Maintenance Asbestos Removal Filing Fee for commercial and
1,000.00
industrial buildings

200.00

Filing Fee for Healthcare

500.00

 page 118
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #29 cont’d
30-544(b)(2)b.2.
30-542(h)(2)
30-542(i)(8)

Inspection fee shall not exceed $2,000.00 per project, or inspection period
for Operations and Maintenance Permits, or the following, whichever is the
lesser:

30-544(b)(2)b.2.(i)
30-542(h)(2)
30-542(i)(8)

Asbestos-containing material, per linear foot

2.00

30-544(b)(2)b.2.(ii)
30-542(h)(2)
30-541(i)(8)

Asbestos-containing material, per square foot

6.00

30-554(b)(2)c.
542(h)(3)
30-961(c)

30- Permit revision fee

55.00

30-542(h)(5)

Emergency Variance Filing Fee.

100.00

30-600

Open burning permit fee schedule:

30-600(1)

Filing fee per permit; maximum ten occurrences (burns) per permit

20.00

30-600(2)

Open burning fee for each day of occurrence (for each burn)

36.00

Effective date: This amended ordinance shall be in effect ___ days after passage.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ITEM #30
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 14, 2012 from
DEBORAH STONE, Director, Department of Environmental Control
respectfully submitting for your approval the Cook County Demolition Debris Diversion Ordinance.

 page 119
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEMOLITION DEBRIS DIVERSION ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 30 Environment,
Article X Demolition Debris Diversion, Sections 30-961 through 30-972 of the Cook County Code are
hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 30-961. Short title.
Section 30-961 through Section 30-972 shall be known, and may be cited, as the Cook County
Demolition Debris Diversion Ordinance
Sec. 30-962. Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this Ordinance is to establish a program for recycling and salvaging of
construction and demolition waste consistent with the Cook County Solid Waste Plan. This
Ordinance is intended to introduce reuse and recycling requirements that will help achieve Cook County’s
goal to:
(1)

Reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste generated at the source;

(2)
Regulate the salvage and transport of salvageable construction and demolition material
and to prevent the improper disposal of construction and demolition debris within the County of
Cook; and,
(3)
Recover materials for the purpose of recycling and reuse that would otherwise be
discarded and return them to the economy.
Sec. 30-963. Findings.
(a)

The County finds and determines that:

(1)

The County is committed to protecting the public health, safety, welfare and environment
and in order to meet these commitments it is necessary that the County promote the
reduction of solid waste and reduce the stream of solid waste going to landfills.

 page 120
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
(2)

The debris generated in construction and demolition projects accounts for a
significant portion of the materials disposed of in landfills and a large percentage of
such debris is comprised of materials particularly suitable for recycling.

(3)

The reuse and recycling of certain portions of construction and demolition debris
is essential to further the County’s efforts to reduce solid waste.

(4)

Except in unusual circumstances, it is feasible to divert an average of at least
seventy percent (70%) of all construction and demolition debris from construction and
demolition projects.

Sec. 30-964. Definitions
AHERA means the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act, 15 U.S.C. § 2641 et seq.
Alteration means any change, addition, or modification of a structure or one or more structural
components in any way, including but not limited to the stripping or removal of ACM from a structure
component.
ASHARA means the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization Act, 15 USC § 2641
et seq..
Construction and Demolition Debris (“C&D debris”) means waste produced by the demolition or
alteration of a structure. C&D debris may include but is not limited to bricks, concrete, masonry
materials, soil, rock scrap, scrap metal, plaster, gypsum drywall, plumbing fixtures and piping,
insulation, roofing shingles, other roof coverings, reclaimed or other asphalt pavement, glass, plastics,
electrical wiring, corrugated cardboard, piping or metals incidental to any of those materials, landscape
waste and wood, including painted, treated, coated wood, wood products, wall coverings, and incidental
dirt, metal, mortar, gypsum, plasterboard, wood and sand that may be intermingled with reusable or
recyclable demolition material generated from demolition activities.
Deconstruction means the process of systematically dismantling a structure in an
environmentally, economically and socially responsible manner, aiming to maximize the recovery of
materials for reuse and recycling.
Demolition means the deconstructing, destroying, razing, tearing down, alteration or wrecking of
any structure or removal of any load-supporting structural member of a facility together with any related
handling operations.
Demolition Project involves the demolition of any load-bearing or non-load-bearing
building or portion of a building that may or may not contain ACM.

 page 121
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
Divert or Diversion means to recycle or reuse demolition debris for any purpose other than
disposal in a landfill, incineration facility.
Facility means an establishment that collects material, including construction and demolition
debris, and either reprocesses or aggregates the material to be sold back into the market or serves as an
intermediate
or permanent site for disposal. Facilities include recycling establishments, building material reuse
centers, transfer stations or landfills.
Hauler means an establishment that collects and transports material, including construction and
demolition debris, from the original site of generation or intermediate site to another destination, such as
a facility.
Recycle or Recycling means to set aside, handle, package or offer for collection residential,
commercial, or industrial solid waste materials or by-products for the purpose of being reused or
processed and then returned to the economic mainstream as useful products.
Remodel or Renovation means the altering of an existing building or structure, or any portion of
its structural components or systems, including the stripping, removal or abatement of ACM from
a building or structure. Operations in which load-supporting structural members are wrecked or taken out
are demolitions.
Reuse means recovering material for repeated use in the same form. This includes materials
that are reused in the same location as they are generated.
Sec. 30-965. Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements.
(a)
Except as provided in section 30-967, applications for a demolition permit will be
subject to the following Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements:
(1)
Any residential building is subject to a minimum five percent (5%) by weight reuse
requirement and a minimum total seventy percent (70%) by weight diversion requirement.
(2)

Any non-residential building is subject to a seventy percent (70%) by weight
recycling requirement with reuse encouraged whenever possible.

 page 122
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
Sec. 30-966. Submission of Demolition Permit Application.
(a)
To be issued a demolition permit, a demolition permit application, including an asbestos
inspection report, completed to AHERA/ASHARA standards, conducted by an Illinois Department of
Public Health certified building inspector, must be submitted no less than 10 business days prior to the
start of the demolition project, reviewed, and approved by the Director.
(b)
Application may include but is not limited to a Demolition Debris Diversion Plan,
estimating the respectively required diversion goals as set out in Sec. 30-965 and the transport means
and destinations of demolition debris. The Demolition Debris Diversion Plan shall include, but is not
limited to, the Estimated Material Tracking Form and the Material Transport Form.
(c)

The Estimated Material Tracking Form shall require the following information:

(1)

The estimated quantity of each type of demolition debris and proposed means of
diversion. The applicant shall list the types of demolition debris by material and the
estimated amount of each type of demolition debris that will be reused or recycled. In
estimating the weight of the demolition debris, the applicant shall use the
conversion rates approved by the Director for this purpose.

(2)

The estimated total weight of demolition debris generated by the project, which is
calculated at the end of the Estimated Material Tracking Form.

(3)

A list with the name and address of the hauler or haulers that will transport each type of
the demolition debris and the name and address of the facility or facilities that
will receive the demolition debris.

(d)
The application shall require certification of compliance with all Cook County
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)

Chapter 30, Environment;

(2)

Chapter 34, Article V, Child Support Payments;

(3)

Chapter 38, Article III, Public Health and Private Nuisances;

(4)

Chapter 58, Article III, Offenses Involving Public Safety, and Article IV, Offenses
Involving Public Morals;

(5)

The Cook County Building Ordinance, adopted originally on March 11, 1949, as
amended, and/or the Cook County Building Code;

 page 123
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
(6)

Chapter 74, Taxation; or

(7)

The Cook County Zoning Ordinance.

Sec. 30-967. Exceptions to the Demolition Debris Diversion requirements.
(a)
The following structures will be exempt from the Demolition Debris Diversion
Requirements of Sec. 30-965 but must still apply for Demolition Permit before commencing any
demolition activity:
(1)

Garages and sheds; and

(2)

Projects that are not demolishing any load-bearing walls.

(b)
In the event that the applicant believes that the diversion of all or some demolition debris
is impossible or impracticable, the applicant shall submit written justification and supplemental
documentation along with the application substantiating the reasons the project should be exempt from
the diversion requirements or be subject to decreased diversion requirements should be decreased. As a
result, the applicant shall be subject to a required site inspection by the Department to verify this claim.
(c)
The Director or his/her designee shall determine, in writing, whether any of the
Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements shall be waived in whole or in part on the grounds of
impracticability or impossibility.
(d)
If the Director or his/her designee declines to approve a Demolition Permit Application,
he or she shall document in writing the basis of denial.
Sec. 30-968. Submission of Demolition Debris Diversion Report.
(a)
Within ten (10) days of the expiration of the demolition permit the permit holder or
his or her designee shall submit to the Department a Demolition Debris Diversion Report verifying
that the Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements were met as set out in Sec. 30-965.
(b)
Department.

Applicants shall use a standard Demolition Debris Diversion Report provided by the

(c)
The Demolition Debris Diversion Report shall include, but is not limited to, the
Actual Tracking Form and the Material Transport Reports.
(1)

The Actual Material Tracking Form shall contain the following information:

 page 124
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d

(2)

(3)

a.

The weight of demolition debris that was diverted by type of material,
diversion method, haulers that managed the debris, and facilities that received the
debris.

b.

The weight of demolition debris that was not diverted.

Material Transport Reports shall be submitted to substantiate the Actual Material
Tracking Form and shall contain the following information for each facility used:
a.

A complete list of the types of demolition debris transported to each
facility, including itemized weight for each type;

b.

The total weight of demolition debris transported to each facility;

c.

The final destination for the materials as managed by each facility;

d.

Each facility’s contact information; and,

e.

Any barriers encountered that prohibited diversion of demolition debris.

Certification by the General Contractor that all information furnished to the
Department is true and accurate.

(d)
If the Demolition Debris Diversion Report shows that the project failed to meet the
Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements as set out in Sec. 30-965, the applicant shall be in
violation of this Ordinance and subject to the fines as specified in Sec. 30-972.
(e)
An applicant who fails to submit the required documentation as provided herein shall be
subject to the full amount of the fines specified in Section 30-213 as if no amount of demolition
debris was recycled or reused.
(f)
Any false statement, documentation or audit non-compliance shall result in fines
and/or penalties pursuant to this Ordinance and/or the penalties specified in Section 30-972.
(g)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where title to the property is transferred to a bona fide
purchaser after the rehabilitation of the property, if an applicant is unavailable or refuses to provide the
required documentation, the bona fide purchaser may obtain a certificate of occupancy by submitting a
waiver application supported by an affidavit that the applicant is unavailable or refuses to provide the
required documentation.

 page 125
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
Sec. 30-969. Exceptions to the Demolition Debris Diversion Report.
(a)
In the event that the applicant was unable to divert the amount of demolition debris as
required by Sec. 30-965, the applicant shall submit written justification and supplemental documentation
along with the Demolition Debris Diversion Report substantiating the reasons it was impossible or
impracticable for the project to achieve its estimated diversion goals.
(b)
The Director shall consider this documentation to determine whether the applicant has
violated the reporting requirements as set out in Sec. 30-968.
(c)
If the Director finds that the applicant has not submitted sufficient written justification
and supplemental documentation to justify the impossibility or impracticability to meet this requirement,
the Director shall make a written finding that the Applicant has violated the provisions of this Article and
state the basis for that finding in writing.
(d)
If the project has been exempt from meeting the Demolition Debris Diversion
Requirements as set out in Sec. 30-967, the project shall be exempt from submitting a Demolition
Debris Diversion Report. If a project has been issued a Demolition Permit with Demolition Debris
Diversion Requirements lower than set out in Sec. 30-965, the project is still required to submit a
Demolition Debris Diversion Report.
Sec. 30-970. County’s right to monitor and inspect.
(a)
The Director or his/her designee may inspect and monitor all demolition projects to
determine actual levels of demolition debris diversion and to validate the information provided in the
Demolition Debris Diversion Plan and the Demolition Debris Diversion Report.
(b)
An applicant shall retain the receipts or weight tickets for the quantities of
materials reused recycled and landfilled as indicated in the Demolition Debris Diversion Report for at
least three years after the demolition is complete.
(c)
Site inspections by the Department may occur during demolition activity to verify proper
siting and material handling procedures are being followed in compliance with all applicable sections of
the Cook County Code.
Sec. 30-971. Rulemaking.
The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry
out the duties imposed upon it by this Ordinance.

 page 126
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #30 cont’d
Sec. 30-972. Penalties.
(a)

A permit holder is in violation this Cook County Demolition Debris Diversion Ordinance

(1)

Failing to submit Demolition Debris Diversion Report;

(2)

Failing to timely file a required Demolition Debris Diversion Report;

(3)

Failing to complete Demolition Debris Diversion Report to a satisfactory degree, which
includes submitting inaccurate, incomplete, inconsistent, or illegible information;

(4)

Failing to maintain records required by this Article;

(5)

Failing to divert demolition debris as required by Sec. 30-965;

(6)

Violating any other portion of
Ordinance.

(b)

With respect to violating this Ordinance, a full list of penalties and fines are listed in Sec.

by:

the Cook County Demolition Debris Diversion

30-213.
(c)
Criminal prosecutions pursuant to this Ordinance shall in no way bar the right of Cook
County to institute civil proceedings to recover fines, interest and costs incurred for such proceedings.
Civil penalties and interest assessed pursuant to this Ordinance shall be computed at the rate provided by
the Cook County Uniform Penalty, Interest and Procedures Ordinance.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall take effect 120 days after passage.

 page 127
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
ITEM #31
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization to accept a grant in the amount of $350,000.00 from the Chicago Metropolitan
Agency for Planning (CMAP) for consultant engineering services related to the Long Range
Transportation Plan. The grant total is comprised of federal funding in the amount of $280,000.00 and a
local match, $70,000.00 to be funded by the Highway Department.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $70,000.00. Grant Award: $350,000.00. Funding period: July 1, 2012 through
June 30, 2015 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account).
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
PROPOSED CONTRACTS
ITEM #32
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Re:

Motor Fuel Tax Project
State Street,
26th Street to Joe Orr Road
in the City of Chicago Heights in County Board Districts #5 and 6
Section: 12-W5602-06-RP
Centerline Mileage: 2.00 miles
Contract No. 12-23-187

requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute Contract No. 12-23187 with Triggi Construction, Inc., West Chicago, Illinois.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the County Procurement Ordinance.
On May 23, 2012, six (6) bidders responded. Triggi Construction, Inc. was the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder recommended for Award.

 page 128
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #32 cont’d
Reason:

This Contract with Triggi Construction, Inc. will consist of full depth concrete patching of the
existing pavement where it has shown signs of failure and shall include diamond grinding
concrete pavement, curb and gutter repairs, median repairs, adjustments or reconstruction of
existing drainage structures, joint repairs crack routing and sealing removal and replacement of
raised reflective pavement markers, removal and replacement of traffic signal detector loops,
traffic control and protection, landscaping, pavement marking, engineering and other
necessary highway appurtenances. The cost savings are estimated at $538,229.30 based on the
engineer's estimate.

Fiscal Impact: $2,363,584.70 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account).
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #33
Transmitting a Communication, from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Re:

Pavement Markings - 2012
Various Locations
Section: 12-8PVMK-35-GM
Contract No. 12-90-094

requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute Contract No. 12-90094 with Preform Traffic Control Systems, LTD., Elk Grove Village, Illinois.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement
Ordinance. On June 6, 2012, two (2) bidders responded. Perform Traffic Control Systems, LTD. was the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder recommended for award.

 page 129
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #33 cont’d
Reason:

This contract with Perform Traffic Control Systems, LTD., will consist of furnishing and
installing various types of paint and performed plastic pavement markings on various roads in
Cook County, Illinois.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,335,700.00 (FY 2012: $1,100,000.00; FY 2013: $1,100,000.00; and FY
2014: $135,700.00) from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account). Contract period: July 10, 2012
through July 9, 2014 with an additional three (3) one-year renewal option.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #34
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highway
Re:

Furnish and Deliver Aggregate Materials
North Area and South Areas
Section: 10-STONE-06-GM
Contract No. 12-28-267

requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute Contract No. 12-28267 with Heritage Logistics, LLC., Naperville, Illinois.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement
Ordinance. On June 6, 2012 one (1) bidder responded. Heritage Logistics, LLC. was the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder recommended for Award.

 page 130
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #34 cont’d
Reason:

This Contract with Heritage Logistics, LLC. will consist of 10,400 Tons of Aggregate for
highway maintenance work as follows.
5,200 Tons of Aggregate to be furnished and delivered to Maintenance Districts #1 and 2,
designated as the North Area.
5,200 Tons of Aggregate to be furnished and delivered to Maintenance Districts #3, 4 and 5,
designated as the South Area.
Materials to be used for road maintenance repair by County forces.
The cost savings are estimated at $4,390.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $245,750.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account). Contract
Period: Twenty-four (24) months.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2013 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #35
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Re:

Furnish Bituminous Materials (Hot Patch) for South Area
Section: 12-HBITS-06-GM
Contract No. 12-28-263

requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute Contract No. 12-28263 with Central Blacktop Co., Inc., LaGrange, Illinois.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement
Ordinance. On June 6, 2012 three (3) bidders responded. Central Blacktop Co., Inc. was the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder recommended for Award for a twelve month contract.

 page 131
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #35 cont’d
Reason:

This Contract with Central Blacktop Co., Inc. will consist of 4,160 Tons of Bituminous patch
material and 1,400 gallons of prime coat material (SS-1) and 125 each of 5 gallon containers of
prime coat material (SS-1) located in the South Area for extended pavement repairs including
pavement resurfacing to be performed by County forces.
The cost savings is estimated as $7,275.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $254,270.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account). Contract
Period: Twelve (12) months.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
*****
ITEM #36
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highway
Re:

Furnishing Bituminous Material (Hot Patch) for North Area
Section: 12-HBITN-06-GM
Contract No. 12-28-265

requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute Contract No. 12-28265 with Arrow Road Construction Company, Mount Prospect, Illinois.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement
Ordinance. On June 6, 2012 two (2) bidders responded. Arrow Road Construction Company was the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder recommended for Award.
Reason:

This Contract with Arrow Road Construction will consist of 2,640 Tons of Bituminous (Hot
Patch ) material and 1,000 gallons of prime coat material (SS-1) to be disbursed as needed.

Fiscal Impact: $163,045.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account). Contract Period: Twelve
(12) months.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 page 132
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED SPEED LIMIT ZONING ORDINANCE
ITEM #37
Transmitting a Communication, from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highway
respectfully submit to your Honorable Body and recommend for adoption, an ordinance revising the
speed limits on various roads which are under the maintenance and jurisdiction of Cook County.
The recommended speed limits were determined by engineering and traffic investigations in accordance
with the provisions of Article VI of the Illinois Vehicle Code and as more fully explained in the following
ordinance.
It is respectfully requested that, should your Honorable Body concur in these recommendations, the
ordinance be adopted and forwarded to the District Engineer of the Illinois Department of Transportation
for approval.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
IT IS HEREBY DECLARED, by the Board of County Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, that the
basic statutory vehicular speed limits established by Section 11-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code are
greater, or less, than that considered reasonable and proper on the street or highway listed in the following
Schedule for which the County has maintenance responsibility and which is not under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Transportation, State of Illinois; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that this Board has caused to be made an engineering and traffic
investigation upon the upon the road listed below shall be as stated herein; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that by virtue of Section 11-604 of the above Code, this Board
determines and declares that reasonable and proper absolute maximum speed limits upon the road
described below shall be as stated herein; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that signs giving notice there of shall be erected in conformance with
the standards and specifications contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, the Illinois
Supplement to the National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the Standard Specifications
for Traffic Control Items; and

 page 133
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED SPEED LIMIT ZONING ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #37 cont’d
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED that this ordinance shall take effect immediately after the erection of
said signs giving notice of the maximum speed limits; and
BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, that pursuant to Cook County Code, Sec. 82-2 all speed limits
established by the County Board are hereby ratified and confirmed. All ordinances amending or enacting
speed limits are on file in the office of the County Clerk.
COOK COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
SPEED LIMIT ZONES ON ROADWAYS UNDER
COOK COUNTY MAINTENANCE JURISDICTION

ROADWAY

SECTION

108th Avenue

179th Street to 159th
Street

MILEAGE

EXISTING
SPEED LIMIT

PROPOSED
SPEED LIMIT

2.5

45 MPH

40MPH

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
ITEM #38
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT RESOLUTION:
1. Intergovernmental Agreement
Shoe Factory Road at Sutton Road (IL-59)
in the Village of Hoffman Estates in County Board District #15
Section Number: 11-A6204-01-CH
Fiscal Impact: $123,470.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook and the Village of Hoffman Estates
wherein Hoffman Estates will be the lead agency for design and construction of intersection
improvements, including widening to provide right turn lanes along all four legs, drainage
improvements, combination curb and gutter, sidewalks, bicycle accessibility, traffic signal
modernization and other attendant highway appurtenances at the intersection of Shoe Factory Road
(County Highway A62) and Sutton Road (IL 59). The improvement is identified as Cook County
Section: 11-A6204-01-CH.

 page 134
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT continued
ITEM #38 cont’d
The County will reimburse the Village of Hoffman Estates for ten (10%) percent of the costs for
Phase I preliminary engineering, Phase II design engineering, construction and construction
engineering, estimated County total cost $123,470.00.
PROPOSED REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT RESOLUTION
ITEM #39
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT RESOLUTION:
1. Reimbursement Agreement
Shoe Factory Road,
Kane County Line to Prestbury Drive
in the City of Elgin in County Board District #15
Section: 03-A6201-01-FP
Centerline Mileage: 0.90 miles
Fiscal Impact: $3,750,000.00 ($480,719.02 to be reimbursed from the City of Elgin) from the Motor
Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Reimbursement agreement with the City of Elgin wherein the County will include the construction of
bike path, street lighting, concrete driveways, sanitary sewer and watermain adjustments as part of the
County’s improvement along Shoe Factory Road from Kane County Line to Prestbury Drive, Section:
03-A6201-01-FP, in the City of Elgin. The City shall reimburse Cook County for its share of
construction costs for the improvements, estimated cost $480,719.02.
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION
ITEM #40
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Appropriating Resolution
Electrical Engineering Design Services
Various Locations throughout Cook County in County Board Districts Countywide
Section: 13-8TSDS-10-ES
Fiscal Impact: $300,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

 page 135
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #40 cont’d
Recommend for adoption, a resolution appropriating funds for electrical engineering design services
related to traffic signals at various locations throughout Cook County by an outside engineering
consultant.
These services as proposed will consist of signal coordination and timing studies; preparation of
traffic signal warrant studies and traffic signal design plans including installation, modernization and
interconnect plans; conducting closed loop signal system monitoring; preparation of roadway lighting
design plans and miscellaneous electrical systems (pump stations and maintenance yards) plans;
review of traffic signal and roadway lighting plans; and, assist with County’s Electrical and
Mechanical Item Maintenance Contract.
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #41
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval THREE (3) COMPLETIONS OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL
RESOLUTIONS:
1. Approval Resolution
Devon Avenue,
Rohlwing Road to Busse Road
in the Villages of Bensenville, Elk Grove and Itasca and in Elk Grove Township in County Board
Districts #15 and 17
Section: 09-B1113-08-RP
Final Cost: $3,144,960.54 (5.1% above the Construction Contract Bid Amount)
The work, consisting of repairing concrete pavement along Devon Avenue with concrete patches
concrete pavement and median as required, repairing and replacing damaged concrete curb and gutter
as required, crack routing and sealing, replacing and adjusting drainage structures as required,
removing and replacing raised reflective pavement markers, pavement signing and striping, diamond
grinding concrete pavement, landscape restoration with sod, replacement of traffic signal loop
detectors as required and miscellaneous appurtenances.

 page 136
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #41 cont’d
2. Approval Resolution
Sauk Trail,
Calumet Expressway to Torrence Avenue
in the Village of Sauk in Cook County and in Bloom Township in County Board District #6
Section: 11-C1136-01-RP
Final Cost: $914,057.12 (4.3% above the Construction Contract Bid Amount)
The work, consisting of repairing concrete pavement along Sauk Trail from Calumet
Expressway to Torrence Avenue with concrete patches and concrete pavement, replacing concrete
curb and gutter and median repair as required, crack routing and sealing, drainage repairs
and adjustments, removing and replacing raised reflective pavement markers, signal loop detectors as
required, diamond grinding concrete pavement, signing and pavement markings, traffic protection
and miscellaneous appurtenances.
3. Approval Resolution
Group1-2011:
Willow Road,
Schoenbeck Road to Wheeling Road; and
Wheeling Road-Camp,
McDonald Road to Palatine Road
in the City of Prospect Heights and the Village of Wheeling in County Board Districts #14 and 17
Section: 10-A7816-02-RS
Final Cost: $643,393.13 (-22.1% below the Construction Contract Bid Amount)
The work, consisting of removing the existing asphalt surface to a depth of 2 inches, repair
the existing base with asphalt patches (9 In.) as required, milled the surface an approximate depth of
1inch and overlay with 2 inches of asphalt surface course, also included, the removal
and replacement of damaged concrete curb and gutter, as required, traffic protection, drainage repairs
and adjustments, as required, pavement markings, removal and replacement of traffic signal detector
loops, as required and miscellaneous appurtenances.

 page 137
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION
ITEM #42
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) MAINTENANCE RESOLUTION:
1. Motor Fuel Tax Project
Highway Maintenance Resolution
Electrical and Mechanical Item Maintenance for Calendar Year 2013
Various Locations Countywide
Section: 13-8EMIM-41-GM
Fiscal Impact: $2,940,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
PROPOSED RESOLUTION TO VACATE AN UNIMPROVED PARCEL
ITEM #43
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) RESOLUTION TO VACATE AN UNIMPROVED PARCEL:
1. Flavin Road (104th Avenue) at 95th Street
in unincorporated Palos Township in County Board District #17
Fiscal Impact: None
PROPOSED CHANGES IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK
ITEM #44
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Submitting nine (9) changes in plans and extra work:
1. Section: 08-W3719-04-FP. Narragansett Avenue, 87th Street to 79th Street in the City of Burbank in
County Board District #11. Adjustment of Quantities and New Items. $67,512.84 (Addition).

 page 138
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CHANGES IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK continued
ITEM #44 cont’d
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed, with increases in concrete pavement, concrete patches, various storm sewer items,
concrete headwall removal and light pole foundations which were necessitated by existing field
conditions.
New items were added for various drainage and electrical work which were required but not provided
in the original contract.
2. Section: 09-B6736-03-RP. Joe Orr Road Relocated, East of Stony Island Avenue to Torrence
Avenue. Federal Project No.: M-9003 (741), Federal Job No.: C-91-184-11, IDOT Contract No.:
10217 in the Villages of Ford Heights and Lynwood in County Board District #6. Adjustment of
Quantities. $19,231.00 (Addition).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed with a large increase in the items of tree removal and controlled low strength material, per
field conditions.
3. Section: 09-37120-90-FP. Wheeling Township 2009, Gregory Street and Graylynn Drive in
unincorporated Wheeling Township in County Board District #14. Adjustment of Quantities.
$37,487.50 (Addition).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed with additional tree removal, extension of the 30 inch storm sewer for an additional 240
feet and the substitution of the M-3.12 curb and gutter for B-6.12 curb and gutter throughout the
length of the project, as directed by the Township.
4. Section: 11-B6128-05-RP. 175th Street, Cicero Avenue to Kedzie Avenue in the City of Country
Club Hills and in the Village of Hazel Crest in County Board District #5. Final Adjustment of
Quantities. $540.00 (Addition).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed.
5. Section: 08-W3719-04-FP. Narragansett Avenue, 87th Street to 79th Street in the City of Burbank in
County Board District #11. Adjustment of Quantities and New Items. $19,031.00 (Addition).

 page 139
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
PROPOSED CHANGES IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK continued
ITEM #44 cont’d
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed with additional quantities required for temporary by-pass pavement due to project staging
and for a manhole type A to connect to the new storm sewer outfall.
A new item was added for hot-mix stabilized subbase IL-19.0, N30 which replaced hot-mix asphalt
stabilized subbase, IL-19.0 to be in compliance with current IDOT standards.
6. Section: 10-25154-90-RS.
Palatine Township, 2011 MFT Project Various Locations in
unincorporated Palatine Township in County Board District #14. Final Adjustment of Quantities.
$3,339.40 (Addition).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed with additional quantities being required for patching and concrete curb removal and
replacement due to field conditions.
7. Section: 10-TSCMC-08-TL. Traffic Signal Modernization, Contract and LED Retrofitting (53
Locations) in various Villages of Cook County in Count Board Districts #5, 6, 13, 14, 15 and 17,
Adjustment of Quantities. $15,981.04 (Deduction).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
with a large deduction due to the elimination of the contract extra work item.
8. Section: 09-37110-90-FP. Wheeling Township, 2009 E.R.P. Project Various Locations in
unincorporated Wheeling Township in County Board District #14. New Item. $5,954.52 (Addition).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed.
A new item was required for additional landscaping work which was not included in the original
contract.
9. Section: 11-8PVMK-34-GM. Pavement Markings-2011. Final Adjustment of Quantities. $171,732.10
(Deduction).
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities and
materials for work performed.

 page 140
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
REPORT
ITEM #45
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent of Highways
submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending May 31, 2012.

 page 141
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT FOR MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS
REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONTRACT
ITEM #46
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 19, 2012 from
GREG WASS, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting that the Board of Commissioners approve as amended the following Contract, which was
previously approved on the December 14, 2011 Board Agenda, Item #11.
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.
Transmitting a Communication, dated November 10, 2011 from
GREG WASS, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent Chief Procurement Officer to enter and execute a
contract with Xerox Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, for the lease of four (4) Xerox Docuprint 2000 Series
180 MICR laser printers, including four (4) one (1) years of hardware maintenance, printer supplies
toner/developer, and monthly impression charges..
Reason:

These printers are the only known compatible printer's with the County's print program and
forms.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $675,000.00. Contract period: December 1, 2011 July 10, 2012 through
November 30, 2012 July 9, 2013. (714/016-579 Account).
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with this recommendation.

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICE TECHNOLOGY
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #47
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 18, 2012 from
GREG WASS, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $751,138.67 to International Business
Machines Corporation (IBM), Chicago, Illinois, to complete payment on the zSeries (mainframe)
computer licenses and related mainframe support services for the period January 1, 2012 through May 31,
2012.

 page 142
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICE TECHNOLOGY continued
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT continued
ITEM #47 cont’d
Reason:

Cook County's contractual relationship with IBM for zSeries licensing and support services
has expired. If approved, this payment will bring current all of Cook County's zSeries-related
financial obligations to the company through May 31, 2012. It is estimated that there will be
one additional payment to IBM to cover the three month period between June 1, 2012 through
August 31, 2012; after which all future mainframe services will be handled through Cook
County's new agreement with Acxiom.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $751,138.67. (717/009-579).
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with this recommendation.

 page 143
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
ITEM #48
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
transmitted herewith is a request for approval of a HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME)
Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) Operating Assistance Grant in the amount of
$200,000.00 to Interfaith Housing Development Corporation (IHDC). This operating grant will be
utilized to support HOME-eligible administrative expenses. Cost eligibility will be determined based
upon HUD regulatory criteria and relevance to current and potential affordable housing development
projects sponsored by IHDC.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or
his/her designee be authorized to execute, or behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents
necessary to further the grant approved herein, including, but not limited to, funding agreements,
intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this grant by the
Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this grant to move forward.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $200,000.00. (772-298 Account).
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
ITEM #49
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 14, 2012 from
TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of:
1)

The follow No Fee Permits for the Chicago Zoological Society at 3300 South Golf Road,
Brookfield, Illinois in Proviso Township, County Board District #16.

 page 144
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #49 cont’d

PERMIT
120922
121027
121043

DESCRIPTION
Catered Events/Pavilion Tent
Catered Events/Children’s Zoo Tent
Install Nine (9) Emergency Stops on Boilers

WAIVER
AMOUNT
$2,473.53
$911.00
$248.85

Estimated Fiscal Impact Subtotal: $ 3,633.38.
2)

The follow No Fee Permits for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for work performed
on the following District properties:
WAIVER
DISTRICT PERMIT PROPERTY
DESCRIPTION
TOWNSHIP AMOUNT
Palatine
$703.50
14
120731 2725 N. Ela Rd.
Temporary Tent Hoffman Estates, IL
Highland Woods
Golf Course
16
120732 8600
W.
Forest Temporary Tent Leyden
$703.50
Preserve Ave.,
Indian Boundary
Chicago, IL
Golf Course
6
120733 16310 S. Central Ave., Temporary Tent Bremen
$703.50
Oak Forest, IL
George
Dunne
Golf Course
9
121010 536 N. Harlem Ave.,
Replace Generator
Proviso
$495.00
River Forest, IL
at
General
Headquarters
13
120335 9453 Harms Rd.,
Living
Quarters
Niles
$2,117.05
Repair - Harms &
Morton Grove, IL
Golf Stable
4
121212 11200 S. Ave. E,
Comfort Station
Calumet
$203.70
Chicago, IL
Eggers Grove
13
121218 6145 N. Golf Rd.,
Water Repair Niles
$176.40
Morton Grove, IL
Chick Evans Golf
Course
Estimated Fiscal Impact Subtotal: $5,102.65.

 page 145
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #49 cont’d
This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Total Estimated Fiscal Impact: $8,736.03.
100% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
100% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2012 TO PRESENT:

$8,736.03
$111,240.02

*****
ITEM #50
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 14, 2012 from
TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of the following 10% Reduced Fee Permits:

DISTRICT PERMIT ENTITY
1
120453
Loyola
University
Medical
Center
1

120841

1

120049

Loyola
University
Medical
Center
Loyola
University
Medical
Center

PROPERTY
2160 S. First Ave.,
Maywood, IL
Proviso Township

DESCRIPTION
Tissue Culture
and Mice Room
Project in Bldg.
#112

2160 S. First Ave.,
Maywood, IL
Proviso Township

1st Floor
Corridor
Cosmetic
Upgrade Project
Interior Remodel

2160 S. First Ave.,
Maywood, IL
Proviso Township

TOTAL FEE
AMOUNT
$8,546.40

WAIVER
AMOUNT
$ 7,691.76

$ 19,518.80

$17,566.83

$2,260.38

$2,237.78

 page 146
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #50 cont’d
This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent [10%] of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $27,496.37.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2012 TO PRESENT:

$ 27,496.37
$ 276,352.18

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
PROPOSED CONTRACTS
ITEM #51
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 19, 2012 from
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into an agreement with Noresco, LLC,
Des Plaines, Illinois, for a Guaranteed Energy Performance Contracting Project (GEPC). Phase II of this
contract provides engineering and construction services for the Energy Conservation Measures (ECM)
determined via the investment grade energy audit at the Department of Corrections Campus and the
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. Noresco, LLC was selected through a Request for
Qualifications/Request for Proposal process as highly qualified and offering a competitive price.
Reason:

This contract provides for a guaranteed energy performance contracting project at the
Department of Corrections and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center campuses. The goal
of the project is to identify and implement identifying energy conservation measures (ECMs)
that will result in at least a 10% reduction in emissions and energy costs as compared to a
Base Year, throughout a 20 year financing period. Phase I consisted of a comprehensive
investment grade audit of 13 buildings on the Department of Corrections and Criminal Courts
Campus. The ECMs identified are estimated to achieve cost savings sufficient to cover
financing of the ECMs. The parties have negotiated in good faith the terms of Phase II,
pursuant to which Noresco, LLC will perform engineering and construction services
necessary to implement the agreed upon ECMs. The engineering and construction cost of the
energy conservation measures will be $34,228,000.00, with an annual projected savings of
$2,222,800.00.

 page 147
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY continued
PROPOSED CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #51 cont’d
This is a joint project undertaken by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, the Department of
Environmental Control and the Bureau of Finance. This is categorized as an energy efficiency project.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $34,228,000.00. Contract period: Two (2) years for construction, followed by
20 years of monitoring, commencing on the date of Board approval.
20000 County Physical Plant and 32000 Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
*****
ITEM #52
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to execute a contract with Johnson Controls,
Inc. (JCI), Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for a Guaranteed Energy Performance Contracting Project (GEPC).
Phase II of this contract provides engineering and construction services for the Energy Conservation
Measures (ECM) determined via the investment grade energy audit at the Stroger Hospital of Cook
County Campus. Johnson Controls, Inc. was selected through a Request for Qualifications/Request for
Proposal process as highly qualified and offering a competitive price.
Reason:

This contract provides for a guaranteed energy performance contracting project at the Stroger
Hospital of Cook County Campus. This project has identified, and will implement energy
conservation measures (ECMs) that will result in at least a 10% reduction in emissions and
energy costs as compared to a Base Year, throughout a 20 year financing period. In Phase II,
Johnson Controls, Inc. (JCI) will perform construction services necessary to implement the
agreed upon ECMs. The construction cost of the energy conservation measures will be
$26,497,854.00 with an annual projected savings of $2,058,139.00.

This is a joint project undertaken by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy, the Department of
Environmental Control and the Bureau of Finance. This is categorized as an energy efficiency project.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $26,497,854.00. Contract period: Two (2) years for construction, followed by
20 years of monitoring, commencing on the date of Board approval.
28000 Cook County Health & Hospitals.
This item has been approved by the Finance Committee of the Health & Hospitals System at their June
22, 2012 Meeting.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

 page 148
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #53
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding Brighton Trading Inc.'s request for a Class 6b property
tax incentive for special circumstances and substantial rehabilitation for an industrial building located at
4920 South Monitor, Chicago, Illinois in unincorporated Cook County. The applicant has leased the
facility to Aqua Ocean for the warehousing and distribution of frozen fish.
Brighton Trading, Inc. requests approval of the tax incentive based on the special circumstances that the
property has been vacant for more than 24 months; and there has been no purchase for value under the
Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company can complete its application to the
Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b incentive that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Brighton Trading Inc. located in an unincorporated area of Cook County for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 4902 South Monitor, Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, County Board District #11,
Property Index Number: 19-08-202-032-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

 page 149
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #53 cont’d
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the real estate is located in an unincorporated area of Cook County, the Cook County Board
must by lawful Resolution or Ordinance, expressly state that it supports and consents to the filling of a
Class 6b Application and that it finds Class 6b necessary for development to occur on the subject
property; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned
for 41 months at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special circumstances are
present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create 3 new full-time jobs and 4 parttime jobs; and
WHEREAS, the County of Cook finds that the Class 6b tax incentive is necessary for development to
occur on this specific real estate. The County of Cook further cites that the subject property has been
vacant and unused for more than 24 months and there will be no purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor's Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property
located at 4902 South Monitor, Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*****

 page 150
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #54
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 10, 2012 from
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Office of the Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding T. H. Davidson & Co., Inc.'s request for a Class 8
property tax incentive for special circumstances for an industrial building located at 3932 West 149th
Street, Midlothian, Illinois. The applicant has leased the building to Welsh Red-E-Mix, a concrete
manufacturing and distribution company.
T. H. Davidson & Co., Inc. requests approval of the tax incentive based on the special circumstances that
the property has been vacant for more than 24 months; and there has been no purchase for value under the
Class 8 Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company can complete its application to the
Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from T.H.
Davidson & Co., Inc. and Resolution No. 11-0525-C from the Village of Midlothian for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 3932 West 149th Street, Midlothian, Cook County, County Board District #6,
Property Index Numbers: 28-11-308-001-0000; 28-11-308-002-0000 and 28-11-308-020-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties  receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

 page 151
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #54 cont’d
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires a Resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 31 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated four (4) to 15 new full-time jobs, retain one (1) to
two (2) part-time jobs and seven (7) to 15 construction jobs and the Village of Midlothian states the Class
8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific real estate. The municipal Resolution cites the
special circumstances include that the property has been vacant for over 24 months and there has been no
purchase for value.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 3932
West 149th Street, Midlothian, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*****
ITEM #55
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding Essen Global, Inc.'s request for a Class 6b property tax
incentive for special circumstances for an industrial building located at 740 Bonnie Lane, Elk Grove
Village, Illinois. The applicant intends to lease to Glow with Us, the owners company for the warehouse
and distribution of glow-in-the-dark, light-up and promotional products.

 page 152
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #55 cont’d
Essen Global, Inc. requests approval of the tax incentive based on the special circumstances that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; and has been purchased for value under the Class 6b
Ordinance. This resolution is required so that the company can complete its application to the Assessor of
Cook County.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Essen
Global, Inc. and Resolution No. 38-11 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 740 Bonnie Lane, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, County Board District #17,
Property Index Number: 08-27-102-134-1003; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a Resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b and

 page 153
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #55 cont’d
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 13 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will retain 2 full time jobs; create an estimated 2-4 new full-time jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; and has been purchased for value; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor's Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 740
Bonnie Lane, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*****
ITEM #56
Transmitting a Communication, dated July 2, 2012 from
MARIA CHOCA URBAN, Director, Department of Planning and Development
respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding adding members to the Cook County HOME
Consortium.
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has begun to explore options for
consolidation and streamlining of entitlement grant program administration both internally and externally.
Towards this end, HUD has solicited assistance from the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development to recruit municipalities within suburban Cook County that receive Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding directly from HUD to join Cook County’s HOME
Consortium.

 page 154
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #56 cont’d
While an initial County investment to facilitate program year compliance is required, the related annual
ongoing benefit is significant, particularly given national budget reductions to the HOME program. In this
case, the investment of not more than $439,575.43 has the potential to increase the County’s HOME
allocation by more than $900,000.00 over the next two (2) years.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the County of Cook (the County) is an entitlement community pursuant to the regulations of
the HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) at 24 CFR Part 92 and the Community
Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) at 24 CFR Part 570, which entitles the County to receive an
annual allocation of CDBG and HOME grant funds from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD); and
WHEREAS, the amount of CDBG and HOME funds that the County receives pursuant to entitlement
status is determined by a HUD formula that takes into consideration the populations of the municipalities
within its jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, certain municipalities (the Electing Municipalities) within the County that receive
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds directly from HUD can elect to join the County’s
HOME Consortium (the Consortium), which would allow HUD to take into account the populations of
these municipalities when calculating the County’s annual HOME funds entitlement grant, thus
increasing the County’s annual allocation; and
WHEREAS, the Electing Municipalities are choosing to join the Consortium, as signified by resolution
of their municipal boards; and
WHEREAS, each Electing Municipality must conform to the Consortium Program Year, which runs
October 1 through September 30 in accordance with HUD rules; and
WHEREAS, as the Electing Municipalities move to the Consortium Program Year they may experience
a gap in their administrative funding for the few months after their old program year expires and before
the Consortium Program Year begins. (i.e., if their current program year ends on June 30 there is a three
month gap before the new program year starts on October 1); and

 page 155
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #56 cont’d
WHEREAS, the County wants to maximize its federal allocation of HOME Funds by including the
Electing Municipalities in the Consortium. The County’s HOME Investment Partnerships Program could
see up to a $938,000.00 increase over two years by adding the populations of the Electing Municipalities
into the formula for calculating the grant amount.; and
WHEREAS, to facilitate the addition of the Electing Municipalities to the Consortium, the County will
provide the financing for the loss in administrative funding and any social service funding that is needed
to align the program years in each Electing Municipality; and
WHEREAS, HUD requires that the Cook County Board of Commissioners act by resolution to add the
new entitlement communities into the HOME Consortium.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and the Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, Illinois:
Section 1:

That the County will set aside a fund of no more than $439,575.43 in non-federal dollars
to be used to fund the administrative costs incurred by the Electing Municipalities for
periods not funded, within a three year period, due to the alignment of the program years
of the Electing Municipalities with the Consortium Program Year in accordance with
HUD requirements.

Section 2:

That the County be and is hereby authorized to enter into an Addendum to the HOME
Investment Partnerships Program Consortium Agreement for Federal Fiscal Years 2013
and 2014 to add the Electing Municipalities and that the President, Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or the County Clerk are hereby authorized to execute said
HOME Investment Partnerships Program Consortium Agreement Addendum and any
modifications thereto.

Section 3:

That this Resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval as provided by law.

 page 156
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
ITEM #57
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
respectfully requesting approval of a First Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreement between the
County of Cook and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
By Resolution 09-R-498, this Board authorized conveyance of land adjacent to the Oak Forest Health
Center Campus to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and a joint planning
initiative for the purpose of preserving and memorializing the history of the County’s ownership of the
land, and providing for cooperation in the development of the preserve in harmony with the continued use
of the Oak Forest Health Center Campus (the “Campus”).
On July 12, 2011, this Board authorized an Intergovernmental Agreement (the “IGA”) between Cook
County and the District to implement this joint planning initiative. Pursuant to the IGA, a consultant was
retained to develop a Master Plan. This Amendment provides for phase 1 of the implementation of the
Master Plan. Actions authorized are as follows:
1.

The new preserve (the “Oak Forest Heritage Preserve”) will be accessed through the main
entrance to the Oak Forest Health Center. The District will be permitted to place signage directing
visitors to the Preserve, at locations to be agreed upon by the Cook County Real Estate
Management Division in conjunction with the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(“CCHHS”).

2.

An area for parking on the Campus for District patrons will be agreed upon in conjunction with
CCHHS. This parking may be temporary, depending upon the location of a future visitors’ center
and the needs of the Health Center.

3.

CCHHS will refrain from mowing certain areas of the Campus during the remainder of 2012 and
during 2013, as necessary, in order to allow regeneration of existing seed banks. If the District
determines that an oak savannah ecosystem will likely regenerate in such areas, the parties will
negotiate an agreement or arrangement for development of such ecosystem.

4.

In conjunction with CCHHS, the Real Estate Management Division and the District will work
cooperatively to identify a structure or an area in a structure on the Campus for use as a visitor’s
center, and to develop a plan for appropriate funding and staffing.

 page 157
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #57 cont’d
5.

The Real Estate Management Division will continue to work with the District and CCHHS on
phase 2 of the Master Plan planning process.

Fiscal Impact: None
This Agreement is being submitted simultaneously to the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board and for approval by the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners at the next available
meeting.
Approval is recommended.
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENTS
ITEM #58
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
Respectfully requesting approval of a Lease Agreement between the City of Chicago, as Landlord and the
County of Cook, as Tenant for use of a building at 6337 South Woodlawn Avenue, in County Board
District #3, known as the Woodlawn Health Center.
The Ambulatory and Community Health Network will continue to use the premises as a public health
center. Details are:
Landlord:
City of Chicago
Tenant:
County of Cook
Using Agency:
Cook County Ambulatory and Community Health Network
Location:
6337 South Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Term:
Commencement upon Board Approval – December 31, 2016
Termination Option:
By either party with a 120 day prior written notice
Space Occupied:
10,000 square feet.
Base Rent:
$1.00
Operating Expenses: Tenant shall be responsible for all costs of operating the Premises including
security, custodial and snow removal for the Building. City of Chicago will
perform repairs to the building as necessary.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2013-2016 funds.

 page 158
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #58 cont’d
This Lease Agreement is being submitted simultaneously for approval by the City Council of Chicago at
the next available meeting.
This item has been submitted for approval by the Finance Committee for the Health & Hospitals System
at its June 22, 2012 Finance Meeting, and the June 29th CCHHS Board meeting.
Approval is recommended.
*****
ITEM #59
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 29, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
and
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS, Chief Executive Officer,
Cook County Health & Hospitals System
requesting authorization to negotiate and execute a Lease Agreement between the Illinois Medical
District, as Landlord, and the County of Cook, as Tenant, for occupancy by the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System (CCHHS) of a building owned by the IMD at 600 South Hoyne Avenue, in Chicago.
The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS), in collaboration with the Cook County
Board and the Cook County Health and Hospital System (CCHHS), has requested an “1115 waiver” from
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, effective
July of 2012. A decision by CMS is anticipated in July 2012. If approved, this waiver would enable
enrollment of individuals currently ineligible for Medicaid.
CCHHS has requested that the Real Estate Management Division negotiate this lease, which is contingent
on issuance of the waiver, so improvements can begin immediately upon approval of the waiver, and the
enrollment center can commence operations in September 2012, This waiver and a successful enrollment
process will allow CCHHS to decrease its uninsured population and provide funds to improve the quality,
coordination, and cost-effectiveness of the care it provides.
Approval of this item will authorize execution of a lease agreement on terms no less favorable to the
County than those set forth below.

 page 159
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #59 cont’d
Term:
Space Occupied:
Base Rent:
Operating Expenses:

Improvements:

Funding:

An initial term of three years, with two options to renew for two years each.
Approximately 9,400 square feet.
No more than $12.00 per square foot/$112,000.00 annually
Tenant will be responsible for all costs of operating the Premises, including
utilities, security, custodial and snow removal for the Building and parking area.
IMD will perform structural repairs to the building as necessary.
Tenant would be responsible for the cost of improvements necessary to make the
Premises suitable for the intended purpose. A preliminary estimate for build-out
provided by CCHHS Department of Physical Plant $280,000.00.
The 1115 waiver would be entirely funded by local County resources and federal
matching funds for eligible services.

The CCHHS Board approved this matter at its meeting of June 29, 2012.
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS
ITEM #60
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
Respectfully requesting approval of a Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as
Grantor, and Sidera Networks, LLC, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66, Road and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, enacted by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. The license fees,
term start and end dates are all set by ordinance. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Sidera Networks, LLC
July 1, 2012 – June 30, 2017
$3,760.52 for year one, as adjusted annually by Consumer Price Index

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval is recommended.
*****

 page 160
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #61
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
Respectfully requesting approval of a Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as
Grantor, and Vinakom Communications, Inc., as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall
have the authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain,
and remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66, Road and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, enacted by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. The license fees,
term start and end dates are all set by ordinance. Details are:
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Vinakom Communications, Inc.
July 1, 2012 – June 30, 2017
$3,760.52 for year one, as adjusted annually by Consumer Price Index

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval is recommended.
*****
ITEM #62
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
Respectfully requesting approval of a Public Way License Agreement between the County of Cook, as
Grantor, and Zayo Group, LLC, as Grantee. Upon issuance of this License, Grantee shall have the
authority to apply for permits in order to construct, install, replace, relocate, modify, maintain, and
remove its facilities located in the public ways of Cook County.
This license is in accordance with Cook County Code Chapter 66, Road and Bridges, Article 3, Public
Way Regulatory Ordinance, enacted by the Board of Commissioners on June 19, 2007. The license fees,
term start and end dates are all set by ordinance. Details are:

 page 161
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION continued
PUBLIC WAY LICENSE AGREEMENTS continued
ITEM #62 cont’d
Grantor:
Grantee:
Term:
Annual License Fee:

County of Cook
Zayo Group, LLC
July 1, 2012 – June 30, 2017
$3,760.52 for year one, as adjusted annually by Consumer Price Index

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Approval is recommended.

 page 162
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
PROPOSED CONTRACT
ITEM #63
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 20, 2012 from
JAMES D'AMICO, Director, Department of Facilities Management
and
MARIA DE LOURDES COSS, Chief Procurement Officer
Requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with
Valdes Enterprises, LLC, Glenview, Illinois, for freon/refrigerant products.
Reason:

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On May 23, 2012 bids were solicited for 12-45-235 for freon/refrigerant
products. Three (3) bids were received. Valdes Enterprises, LLC was the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder and is recommended for award. The freon/refrigerant will be used by
Facilities Management to replenish the freon/refrigerant for the air conditioning units at the
powerhouse/chiller plant at the Cook County Jail.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $156,640.00 (FY 2012: $32,633.00; FY 2013: $78,320.00; and FY 2014:
$45,687.00). Contract period: July 15, 2012 through July 14, 2014. (200-333 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014 funds.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

 page 163
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
REPORT
ITEM #64
Transmitting a Communication, dated July10, 2012 from
MAUREEN T. O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
and
RESHMA SONI, Interim County Comptroller
submitting the Human Resources Activity reports covering the two (2) week pay period for both Pay
Period 10 ending May 5, 2012 and Pay Period 11 ending May 19, 2012.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ITEM #65
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has enacted "An Act regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other
workers employed in any public works by the State, county, city or any public body or any political
subdivision or by any one under contract for public works," approved June 26, 1941, codified as
amended, 820 ILCS 130/1 et seq. (1993), formerly Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 48, par. 39s-1 et seq.; and
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Act requires that the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook
investigate and ascertain the prevailing rate of wages as defined in said Act for laborers, mechanics and
other workers in the locality of said County employed in performing construction of public works, for
said County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF COOK:
Section 1. To the extent and as required by "An Act regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other
workers employed in any public works by the State, county, city or any public body or any political
subdivision or by any one under contract for public works," approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the
general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in the
construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of this County is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Cook County area as determined by the
Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of June 2012, a copy of that determination being submitted
hereto and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all revisions of the
prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois shall supersede the
Department's June determination and apply to any and all public works construction undertaken by the
County of Cook. The Definition of any terms appearing in this Ordinance which are also used in
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.

 page 164
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #65 cont’d
Section 2. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing rate of wages as
herein ascertained to any work or employment except public works construction of this County to the
extent required by the aforesaid Act.
Section 3. The Bureau of Human Resources shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of this Bureau of Human Resources (County) this determination or any
revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of the current revised
determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall be attached to all contract specifications.
Section 4. The Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to any association of
employers and to any person or association of employees who have filed their names and addresses,
requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
Section 5. The Bureau of Human Resources shall promptly file a certified copy of this Ordinance with
both the Secretary of State Index Division and the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
Section 6. The Bureau of Human Resources shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a copy of this Ordinance, and such publication shall constitute notice that the
determination is effective and that this is the determination of this public body.
Section 7. The Chief Procurement Officer of Cook County shall specify in the call for bids in any
contract for public works that the general prevailing rate of wages in the locality for each craft or type of
laborer or mechanic needed to execute the contract to perform such work, also the general prevailing rate
for legal holiday and overtime work as ascertained by the Bureau of Human Resources, shall be paid for
each craft or type of work needed to execute the contract or to perform such work. The Chief
Procurement Officer in awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted in the contract a stipulation to the
effect that not less than the prevailing rate of wages, as found by the Bureau of Human Resources, shall
be paid to all laborers, workers and mechanics performing work under the contract, and the Chief
Procurement Officer shall also require in all such contractor's bonds that the contract include such
provision as will guarantee the faithful performance of such prevailing wage clause as provided by the
contract.
Section 8. In the case of any underpayment of the prevailing wage, a penalty of 20% of the
underpayment shall be assessed against the contractor or subcontractor; and the 20% penalty shall be
payable to the Illinois Department of Labor. Any underpayment that has not been repaid to a worker
within thirty-days of violation is subject to an additional 2% of the underpayment as a punitive damage
assessment. This is payable to the worker.
Section 9. There is an automatic two (2) year debarment of any contractor or subcontractor found to
have violated the Act on two (2) separate occasions. An affected contractor or subcontractor may request
the Department to hold a hearing on the alleged violations within ten (10) days notification of the second
violation.

 page 165
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #65 cont’d
Cook County Prevailing Wage for June 2012
(See explanation of column headings at bottom of wages)
Trade Name
RG TYP C Base
FRMAN *M-F>8
==================== == === = ====== ====== =====
ASBESTOS ABT-GEN
ALL
35.200 35.700 1.5
ASBESTOS ABT-MEC
BLD
32.850 0.000 1.5
BOILERMAKER
BLD
43.450 47.360 2.0
BRICK MASON
BLD
39.780 43.760 1.5
CARPENTER
ALL
40.770 42.770 1.5
CEMENT MASON
ALL
41.850 43.850 2.0
CERAMIC TILE FNSHER
BLD
33.600 0.000 2.0
COMM. ELECT.
BLD
36.440 38.940 1.5
ELECTRIC PWR EQMT OP
ALL
41.850 46.850 1.5
ELECTRIC PWR GRNDMAN
ALL
32.640 46.850 1.5
ELECTRIC PWR LINEMAN
ALL
41.850 46.850 1.5
ELECTRICIAN
ALL
40.400 43.000 1.5
ELEVATOR CONSTRUCTOR
BLD
48.560 54.630 2.0
FENCE ERECTOR
ALL
32.660 34.660 1.5
GLAZIER
BLD
38.500 40.000 1.5
HT/FROST INSULATOR
BLD
43.800 46.300 1.5
IRON WORKER
ALL
40.750 42.750 2.0
LABORER
ALL
35.200 35.950 1.5
LATHER
ALL
40.770 42.770 1.5
MACHINIST
BLD
43.160 45.160 1.5
MARBLE FINISHERS
ALL
29.100 0.000 1.5
MARBLE MASON
BLD
39.030 42.930 1.5
MATERIAL TESTER I
ALL
25.200 0.000 1.5
MATERIALS TESTER II
ALL
30.200 0.000 1.5
MILLWRIGHT
ALL
40.770 42.770 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 1 45.100 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 2 43.800 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 3 41.250 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 4 39.500 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 5 48.850 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 6 46.100 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
BLD 7 48.100 49.100 2.0
OPERATING ENGINEER
FLT 1 51.300 51.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
FLT 2 49.800 51.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
FLT 3 44.350 51.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
FLT 4 36.850 51.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 1 43.300 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 2 42.750 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 3 40.700 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 4 39.300 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 5 38.100 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 6 46.300 47.300 1.5
OPERATING ENGINEER
HWY 7 44.300 47.300 1.5
ORNAMNTL IRON WORKER
ALL
40.200 42.700 2.0
PAINTER
ALL
38.000 42.750 1.5
PAINTER SIGNS
BLD
33.920 38.090 1.5
PILEDRIVER
ALL
40.770 42.770 1.5
PIPEFITTER
BLD
44.050 47.050 1.5
PLASTERER
BLD
39.250 41.610 1.5
PLUMBER
BLD
44.750 46.750 1.5
ROOFER
BLD
37.650 40.650 1.5

OSA
===
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
2.0
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5

OSH
===
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
1.5
1.5
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0

H/W
=====
12.18
10.82
6.970
9.300
12.34
10.70
9.200
8.420
10.27
8.000
10.27
13.83
11.03
12.42
11.49
10.82
13.20
12.18
12.34
7.980
9.300
9.300
12.18
12.18
12.34
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
11.70
11.70
11.70
11.70
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
14.40
12.67
9.750
2.600
12.34
8.460
10.60
11.59
8.380

Pensn
=====
8.820
10.66
14.66
11.17
11.25
10.76
6.680
8.910
13.01
10.12
13.01
7.920
11.96
10.00
14.64
11.86
19.09
8.820
11.25
8.950
11.17
11.17
8.820
8.820
11.25
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
8.050
8.050
8.050
8.050
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
9.550
15.61
11.10
2.710
11.25
13.85
10.69
9.060
6.820

Vac
=====
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
2.910
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
1.900
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000

Trng
=====
0.450
0.720
0.350
0.730
0.530
0.320
0.580
0.700
0.320
0.240
0.320
0.750
0.000
0.250
0.840
0.720
0.350
0.450
0.530
0.000
0.660
0.730
0.450
0.450
0.530
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.150
1.150
1.150
1.150
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
1.250
0.500
0.770
0.000
0.530
1.820
0.550
0.780
0.430

 page 166
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE continued
ITEM #65 cont’d
Trade Name
====================
SHEETMETAL WORKER
SIGN HANGER
SPRINKLER FITTER
STEEL ERECTOR
STONE MASON
TERRAZZO FINISHER
TERRAZZO MASON
TILE MASON
TRAFFIC SAFETY WRKR
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TRUCK DRIVER
TUCKPOINTER

RG TYP C
== === =
BLD
BLD
BLD
ALL
BLD
BLD
BLD
BLD
HWY
E ALL 1
E ALL 2
E ALL 3
E ALL 4
W ALL 1
W ALL 2
W ALL 3
W ALL 4
BLD

Base
======
40.560
29.460
49.200
40.750
39.780
35.150
39.010
40.490
28.250
33.850
34.100
34.300
34.500
32.550
32.700
32.900
33.100
39.950

FRMAN
======
43.800
29.960
51.200
42.750
43.760
0.000
42.010
44.490
29.850
34.500
34.500
34.500
34.500
33.100
33.100
33.100
33.100
40.950

*M-F>8
=====
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5

OSA
===
1.5
1.5
1.5
2.0
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5

OSH
===
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0

H/W
=====
9.880
4.800
9.750
13.20
9.300
9.200
9.200
9.200
4.896
8.150
8.150
8.150
8.150
6.500
6.500
6.500
6.500
8.180

Pensn
=====
16.54
2.980
8.200
19.09
11.17
9.070
10.41
8.390
4.175
8.500
8.500
8.500
8.500
4.350
4.350
4.350
4.350
10.57

Vac
=====
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000

Trng
=====
0.630
0.000
0.450
0.350
0.730
0.430
0.510
0.640
0.000
0.150
0.150
0.150
0.150
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.000
0.790

Legend:
RG (Region)
TYP (Type)
C (Class)
Base (Base Rate)
FRMAN (Foreman)
M-F>8 (Overtime is required for any hour greater than 8 worked each day, Monday through Friday)
OSA (Overtime is required for every hour worked on Saturday)
OSH (Overtime is required for every hour worked on Sunday and Holidays)
H/W (Health & Welfare Insurance)
Pensn (Pension)
Vac (Vacation)
Trng (Training)

 page 167
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
AND SUPPORT SERVICES
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
ITEM #66
Transmitting a Communication, dated April 30, 2012, from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting authorization to enter into and execute an intergovernmental agreement between the Cook
County Sheriff’s Office and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
As part of this Intergovernmental Agreement, the Sheriff shall assign Sheriff Work Alternative Program
(S.W.A.P) offenders to perform grounds-keeping and simple maintenance to various properties under the
jurisdiction of the Forest Preserve.
The Forest Preserve agrees to reimburse the Sheriff’s Office in an amount approximately equal to the
salary, benefits and administrative costs for four (4) hours per day for one (1) Court Services Sergeant and
eight (8) hour per day for four (4) Court Services Deputies. The number of Cook County Sheriff’s
employees assigned to the Cook County Forest Preserve may exceed the number anticipated in this IGA.
The total per annum amount shall not exceed $500,000.00.
This is a two-year agreement that can be renewed for a subsequent two (2) year period.
This agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract period: January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
POLICE DEPARTMENT
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #67
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 12, 2012 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
MICHAEL K. SMITH, First Deputy Chief of Police, Cook County Sheriff's Police Department
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $150,585.50 to Cook County Emergency Telephone
System Board, Des Plaines, Illinois.

 page 168
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
POLICE DEPARTMENT continued
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT continued
ITEM #67 cont’d
Reason:

This payment represents the Cook County Sheriff's Office share of the hardware and software
maintenance for the Computer Aided Dispatch System for Fiscal Year 2012.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $150,585.50. (231-818 Account).

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN'S JUSTICE SERVICES
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD ADDENDA
ITEM #68
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 18, 2012 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting authorization to accept a grant extension from May 1, 2012 to August 31, 2013 from the Hunt
Alternatives Fund. This extension will provide additional time to spread awareness about the
Department's Human Trafficking Response Team Model.
The authorization to accept the original grant was given on December 1, 2011 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $10,000.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Funding period extension: November 1, 2011 through August 31, 2013.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
*****
ITEM #69
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 19th, 2012 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Chief Financial Officer
requesting authorization to accept a grant extension from June 1, 2012 to August 31, 2013 from the Hunt
Alternatives Fund. This extension will provide additional time to spread awareness and expansion efforts
for the Department's Human Trafficking Response Team Model.

 page 169
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN'S JUSTICE SERVICES continued
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD ADDENDA continued
ITEM #69 cont’d
The authorization to accept the original grant was given on February 15, 2012 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $50,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Funding period extension: December 1, 2012 through August 31, 2013.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

 page 170
AGENDA
Meeting of July 10, 2012

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
ITEM #70
Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State's Attorney
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. Theodore Triplett v. Cook County Sheriff, Case No. 12-C-3212
2. Larry Banks v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 12-CV-1636
3. Robert Dunbar v. Correctional Officer Jacque Grode, et al., Case No. 12-C-1295
4. Maddox Larsha v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 12-C-1232
5. Channel Griffith v. Daranz Broomfield, et al., Case No. 12-M1-301375
6. Tyrone Owens v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 11-C-8630
7. Frederick Coe v. Sunita Williamson, et al., Case No. 11-C-8754
8. Edward Carreon v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 12-C-0928
9. Matalie Petrovic v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 12-CH-19788
10. Heard v. Officer Black, et al., Case No. 11-C-8375
11. Smith v. City of Chicago and Alvarez, Case No. 06-C-6423
*****
The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for Tuesday, July 24, 2012.

 