 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners

Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, February 18, 2014 11:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above to discuss the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure,
Section 1-4?30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at
committee meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those
individuals who have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any)
to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon
to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a
speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

1. Susan Senzel v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County

2. Dwight Winkowski v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County

3. Sharon Capparelli v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County EAB No. 

4. Thaddeus Smith v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County Appellate Court 1-13-0678

5. Invoices submitted for legal services, January 1, 2014 through January 31, 2014 by Brothers 

Thompson, PC for various labor related issues.

6. Invoices submitted for legal services, December 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, by Greene
and Letts for labor related issues.

7. Invoices submitted for legal services, December 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, by
Schuyler Roche, Crisham for labor related issues.

The following is being reported for informational purposes only; no action is required by this Committee.

8. Acir Dalarmi and Laura Dalarmi v. Jesus Placencia, Village of Glenwood and Forest Preserve
District of Cook County - 12 11791

NOTE: THIS SUBCOMMITTEE ROUTINELY MEETS IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.

Chairman:

Vice-Chairman:

Members:

 

r/Q 5

\fca a'?hewB. DeLeon
etary

Silvestri
Fritchey
Collins, Gainer, Schneider, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 2 of 2

