STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on January 16, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.
PRESENT
John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 3, 2014
Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the January 3, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from December 1 through December 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its
highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it. Fiscal and legislative reports were presented and
discussed in the joint meeting the local and state panels scheduled earlier that morning.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-11-062
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Central Management Services

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post called the case then asked
Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present the issues of the case. Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on March 5, 2013,
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Sidwell issued an Recommended Decision and Order (RDO). The ALJ found that
employees Rao and Liu in the titles of Environmental Scientist I and II, are pubic employees within the meaning of
Section 3(n) of the Act and rejected that the positions are managerial within the meaning of Section 3(j) of the Act
and recommended that the positions be added to the bargaining unit. After her presentation she recommended that
the Board adopt the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the ALJ’s
recommendation with modifications. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-14-013
Fraternal Order of Police/City of Savanna
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ
Kehoe’s RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined
to do so.
3.
Case No. S-RC-12-145
Illinois Council of Police/Village of Lyons
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ
Kehoe’s RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined
to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-13-145
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 722/Lee County Circuit Clerk
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s
RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.

 5.
Illinois Department of Central Management Services/American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call and present the cases.
Case No. S-DE-14-129 (Guardianship and Advocacy Commission)-After discussion, Member Washington
moved to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-131 (State Fire Marshall Office)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-132 (Department of Agriculture)-After discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the RDO.
Member Brennwald seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-134 (Emergency Management Agency)
Case No. S-DE-14-135 (Emergency Management Agency)
Case No. S-DE-14-136 (Emergency Management Agency)
General Counsel Post called and presented the issues of the consolidated case. After discussion, Member Besson
moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-137 (Department of Insurance)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the
RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Case No. S-DE-14-138 (Department of Insurance)-After discussion, Member Washington moved to accept the
RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote
Case No. S-DE-14-140 (Department of Natural Resources)
Case No. S-DE-14-141 (Department of Natural Resources)
Case No. S-DE-14-142 (Department of Natural Resources)
General Counsel Post called and presented the issues of the consolidated case. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept the RDO. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Springfield, Illinois, this 11th day of February, 2014.

2

 