 

OFFICE OF THE INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL

FY2014 Proposed Budget Presentation
October 22, 2013 at 11:30

The proposed budget of the Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) is
presented following our 5th year of operations. The proposed budget represents a
balanced consideration of both the overall ?scal concerns of this County as well as
our collective interest in maintaining an effective and independent OIIG.

As you recall, in 2012, the OIIG opened a satellite of?ce on the John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital campus. The of?ce is staffed ?Jll-time by an OIIG investigator. The
importance of establishing a physical presence for an agency such as the OIIG is
signi?cant to the mission of the of?ce. This ?rubber meets the road? philosophy
has resulted in an approximate 50% increase in the number of Health and Hospital
System complaints ?led with this of?ce from 2012 and also has resulted in the
initiation of several complex reviews, including the Revenue Enhancement
Contract review and DEA Pharmacy Audit reports that were provided to the Board
recently.

In 2013, the number of complaints received by this of?ce on the Whole has
remained steady from 2012. We anticipate more than 500 complaints will be, ?led
by the end of the year. Of those, in addition to the matters opened through the
discretionary authority provided to this of?ce, 51 OIIG Investigations and 133
Inquiries have been opened while 67 OIIG reports have been issued thus far in
2013. Of the 67 reports issued following an Investigation, 52 have included
sustained ?ndings and recommendations for remedial action and/or the imposition
of discipline while 15 required no further action. I believe the percentage of
matters involving sustained ?ndings is directly attributable to the administration of

the Inquiry process. This level of review involves a determination of corroborating
evidence before a formal OIIG investigation is opened.

In 2013, the OIIG has continued to dedicate a signi?cant amount of its resources to
addressing ?scal issues involving waste and/or mismanagement by initiating
operational inspections or reviews. For example, in FY 2013, the OIIG has issued
reports concerning 1) Cook County?s management of surplus and obsolete
government property, (2) a follow-up to the Highway Department Operations
inspections that focused on eliminating ef?ciency vulnerabilities and improving
procurement procedures in the Transportation and Highway districts, (3) the HHS
Revenue Enhancement Contract Review that revealed a vulnerability in vendor
revenue projections and HHS budgetary reliance that signi?cantly impacted the
FY2011 and FY2012 budgetary shortfalls, and (4) the DEA Pharmacy Audits to
name several. Other reviews related to waste and mismanagement in 2013 have
included time keeping and leave management, Board of Review contributions by
practicing attorneys, Statement of Economic Interest compliance reviews and the
Forest Preserve District Site Inspections review.

In addition to recommendations supporting a change in policy or practice, the OIIG
has also proposed legislation to address issues we have encountered in our work.
For example, in 2013, the OIIG has offered proposed amendments to the OIIG
Ordinance to speci?cally authorize enforcement in the Circuit Court of subpoenas
when a party fails to comply and to the Human Resources? Ordinance to address
Veterans? preference issues. Also in 2013, the Illinois Legislature enacted a new
provision known as the Illinois Local Government Appointee Ethics Act (5 ILCS
430/70-20) that extends both Cook County Board of Ethics and OIIG jurisdiction
to state boards and commissions that include Cook County executive
appointments. This enactment was the product of the OIIG North?eld Woods
Sanitary District investigation in April of 2012.

. In addition to the conduct of reviews focusing on operational ef?ciencies, the OIIG
dedicates substantial investigative resources to issues involving potential
corruption, fraud and of?cial misconduct. While the monetary costs related to
these issues are often less apparent than the results of an operational review, their
?scal impact to county operations is signi?cant. Moreover, the intangible bene?ts
that are born by the conduct of these forms of investigations are extremely valuable

2

in building a public trust in government and supporting employee morale. In 2013,
two OIIG investigations conducted jointly with state and federal agencies went to
trial. These matters involved an investigation into a series of fraudulent County
contracts involving a former Deputy Chief of Staff and a former Director of the
Department of Public Affairs and Communication. One of the of?cials was
convicted of theft and money laundering this August after a trial in state court.
The other of?cial was tried before a federal court jury and was found guilty last
month on three counts of wire fraud and four counts of bribery.

As a result of the vulnerabilities discovered in our investigation, this of?ce also
recommended several amendments to the Procurement Code in an effort to prevent
sham contract schemes involving no?bid, sole source contracts. Those proposed
amendments were adopted with input and support from the current administration
and were enacted into law by the Board of Commissioners. Now all service
contractors under ?sole source? contracts must submit itemized records indicating
the dates that services were provided, a detailed description of the work performed
on each such date, and the amount of time spent performing work on each such
date before payment is issued by the Comptroller?s Of?ce.

In May 2013, the US. District Court approved the OIIG Employment Plan. Upon
approval of the Employment Plan, this of?ce initiated the process of ?lling ?ve
vacant Investigator positions within the OIIG. This staf?ng effort was important to
support the monitoring and investigative responsibilities related to the
Shakman litigation as well. as the overall mission of the of?ce. This of?ce
considered approximately 200 applicants during the process. Each of the newly
appointed Investigators will be in place in the coming weeks.

The 2013 proposed budget includes two important budgetary initiatives. First, the
OIIG plans to initiate a substantive change in the interview process that will
involve the recording of subject interviews. The process is currently utilized by
other inspector general of?ces in Chicago and Illinois where it has proven to be
highly effective. The allocation of $55,000 will fund the initiative and
permit the transcription of approximately 100 witness interviews. We believe this
initiative represents a ?best practice? for a professionalized IG of?ce.

The second budgetary initiative involves a capital request to acquire a case
management system for the of?ce. In close consultation with the Bureau of
Technology, an RFP has been prepared and is designed to acquire a system that
will signi?cantly enhance core functions of the OIIG. These objectives include the
automation of case handling by investigators, information maintenance and
retrieve ability, security measures and the capacity to create statistics for research
analysis.

In connection with 2013 OIIG activities in support of Cook County and the
Recorder?s Shakman related goals, this of?ce continues to interact on a daily basis
with the Compliance Administrators? Of?ces. In August of this year, the Shalonan
Complaint Administrator concluded operations pursuant to the District Court?s
order and transferred all remaining matters to this of?ce for further handling. In
addition to addressing these matters, the OIIG continues to receive and investigate
claim ?lings for Cook County and the Recorder?s Of?ce, Political
Contact Logs (127 since April 2011) and conducts investigations related to
unlawful political activity. In anticipation of the sunset of the Supplemental Relief
Order, this of?ce has dedicated additional staff to Shakman related duties,
including the increase of monitoring of employment actions. Finally, the OIIG
also continues to dedicate substantial resources to employee training (30 sessions)
and Forest Preserve District oversight following itsdismissal from the Shakman
litigation.

Finally, please note that the proposed OIIG budget recognizes the anticipated
reimbursement from the Forest Preserve District for OIIG services rendered in the
approximately $70,000.

Thank you for your consideration to the OIIG 2014 proposed budget.

A
Patrick M. Blanchard

Independent Inspector General

