REPORT OF THE FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE
March 13, 2007, Reconvened March 28, 2007

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Murphy, Vice Chairman Moreno, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Gorman,
Maldonado and Sims (7)

Absent: None (0)

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Finance Labor Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant
to notice on Tuesday, March 13, 2007 at the hour of 11:00 AM. and Reconvened on March 28, 2007 at
12:00 PM. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Subcommittee has considered the following item and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

285079 AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY CODE, SECTION 34-123 LIVING WAGE
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Roberto Maldonado, County Commissioner.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34,
Section 34-123 is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-123. Living wage.
Unless expressly waived by the County Board. not less than Aa living wage
shall be paid to 

lay?a each employee of any person or business entity awarded a contract or

subcontract with the County or by a for-profit persen?eebusmess?enmyef organization
which has an owner-occupied property who that receives or renews a Class 6b or

Class 9 property tax incentive, except in applications or renewals of Class 9 property
incentives for supportive living facilities 

 

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

FINANCE LABOR REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28,2007
PAGE2

Contract means any written agreement requiring Board approval whereby the
County is committed to expend or does expend funds in connection with any contract
or subcontract which requires in the performance thereof the employment of any
number of full time non-county employees, including, but not limited to, the following
classifications: cashier, clerical, custodial, day laborer, elevator operator, home and
health care, laundry, leased employee, parking attendant, and security guard. The
term "contract" shall not include contracts with not-for?profit organizations, community
development block grants, President?s Of?ce of Employment Training, Sheriff's Work
Alternative Program, or Department of Corrections inmates.

Contracting agency means the County of Cook.

Eligible contractors means any person or business entity awarded a contract or
subcontract by the County which requires in the performance thereof the employment
of any number of full time non-county employees, including, but not limited to, the
following classifications: cashier, clerical, custodial, day laborer, elevator operator,
home and health care, laundry, leased employee, parking attendant, and security
guard.

Employee means any individual permitted to work by an employer in an
occupation but does not include any employer's parent, spouse or child or other
members of his immediate family. This definition of employee may be further defined
by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Living wage means a minimum wage of no less than $9.43 per hour if employee
health benefits are provided, or $11.78 per hour without health benefits. The employee
health benefit contribution shall not exceed 25 percent of the health insurance
premium. As of January 1, 2006, and each January 1 thereafter, the living wage shall
be adjusted, using the most recent federal poverty guidelines for a family of four as
published annually by the United States Department of Health and Human Services,
to constitute the following: there will be an annual adjustment calculated as 100
percent of the federal poverty line for a family of four (as defined by the US.
Department of Health and Human Services) with health benefits and 125 percent of
the federal poverty line for a family of four without health benefits.

Net?f for pro?t organization means any person, corporation, or business entity
except those having tax exempt status under Section of the United States
Internal Revenue Code and recognized under State not-for-profit law, or their
respective successors.

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in
Chapter 74, Article ll, Division 2 of this Code for Class 6b industrial property or Class 9
multifamily residential property.

Supportive living facilities mean programs which establish an alternative to
nursing home care for low income older persons and persons with disabilities under
Medicaid and certified by the State Department of Public Aid.

FINANCE LABOR REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28,2007
PAGE3

Wade means compensation due to an employee by reason of his employment.
including allowances determined the Bureau of Human Resources for gratuities.
and when furnished by the employer, for meals and lodging actually used by the

employee.

Every contract shall contain a provision or provisions stipulating that they are
currently paying the living wage required to be paid to the employees listed?under
listed under the definition of living wage set forth in this section and each such
contract shall further contain provisions obligating the eligible contractor or
subcontractor of such eligible contractor, to pay its employees for work at not less than
the living wage.

Every for-profit organization which has an
owner-occupied property whe that receives or renews a Class 6b or Class 9 property
tax incentive, except as exempted herein for state?seemed supportive living facilities,
shall provide an affidavit to the applicable County agency stipulating that such person
or business entity is currently paying the living wage required to be paid to the
employees listed under the definition of living wage set forth in this section.

The Purchasing Agent shall require as part of the bidding and sole. source
procedure that any covered contractor provide the County certification of its
compliance with this section.

Any contract that violates the provisions contained in this section shall be
subject to cancellation by the County Board. Any Class 6b or Class 9 property tax
incentive that violated the provisions contained in this Section shall be subiect to
cancellation by the County Board.

(9) Any contractor disqualified from eligibility by the County Board shall be
ineligible for two years following violation of this section. With respect to any Class 6b
or Class 9 property tax incentive, any for profit organization found to have violated the
provisions of this Section by the County Board shall be ineligibie for any Ctass 6b or
Class 9 property incentive for a period of two years from the date of the County
Board?s determination.

Annually, the County Assessor's Office shall review and analyze the property
tax incentives program to determine whether the living wage program has resulted in
less application for and utilization of the incentive classification. A report of this review
shall be provided by the County Board.

This section shall apply to contracts advertised for bid or if not advertised for
bid, approved for sole source or to for-profit persons or business entities of owner-
occupied properties who receive a Class 6b or Class 9 property tax incentive on or
after January 1, 2005.

This section shall not apply to any applications or renewal of a Class 9 tax
incentive, as provided under Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code, for
supportive living facilities certified by the State Department of Public Aid.

FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28, 2007
PAGE4

This section shall not apply to any contract with the County entered into prior
to the effective date of the ordinance from which this Section is derived.

(Ord. No. 98?0-21, 2, 9-15-1998; Ord. No. 05-0-02, 1, 2, 12-1-2004;
Ord. No. 05-0-42, 2, 9-20-2005.)

*Referred to the Finance Labor Subcommittee on February 21, 2007.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO THE COOK COUNTY LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE

Sponsored by

The Honorable Roberto Maldonado, Joan Patricia Murphy,
and Deborah Sims
Cook County Commissioners

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34, Section 34-123 is
hereby amended as follows:

Sec 34- 123. Living wage.
Unless expressly waived by the County Board not less than A?a living wage fer?services

perfeitmed?er?predueed' shall be paid to 

 

   




- ach employee
of any employer that is awarded either a contract or subcontract with the County, or a property

tax incentive for owner- -occupied property.

 

 

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Assessor means the Assessor of Cook County.
Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
Chief Financial Of?cer or means the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County.

Commission means the Cook County Commission on Human Rights.

 

Contract means any written agreement whereby the County is committed to
expend or does expend funds in connection with any contract or subcontract which requires in the
performance thereof the employment of any number of full-time non-county employees, including, but
not limited to, the following classifications: cashier, clerical, custodial, day laborer, elevator operator,
home and health care, laundry, leased employee, parking attendant, and security guard. The term
"contract" shall not include contracts with not-for?profit organizations, community development block
grants, President's Office of Employment Training, Sheriff?s Work Alternative Program, or Department
of Correction inmates.

FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28,2007
PAGE5



 

   

serenity?ample 
da-y?labererTeleva ter- 


Employee means any individual permitted to work on a full-time basis by an employer in an
occupation pursuant either to work performed under a specific county contract or to work performed on
the specific property for which the employer receives a property tax incentive. The term "employee"
does not include an individual who is the employer's parent. spouse or child or other members of the
employer's immediate family. This definition of employee may be further defined by the Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources.

Employer means any person or business entity that employs one or more full-time employees,
excludino the parent, spouse, child or other members of the employer's immediate family. Employer
does not include not-for-profit orqanizations.

Living wage means a minimum wage of no less than $9.43 per hour if employee health benefits are
provided, or $11.78 per hour without health benefits. The employee health benefit contribution shall not
exceed 25 percent of the health insurance premium. As of January 1, 2006, and each January 1
thereafter, the CFO shall adiust the living wage shalLbe?adiested; using the most recent federal poverty
guidelines for a family of four as published annually by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services, to constitute the following: there will be an annual adjustment calculated as 100
percent of the federal poverty line for a family of four (as defined by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services) with health benefits and 125 percent of the federal poverty line for a family of four
without health benefits.

Not-for-profit organization means a corporation having tax exempt status under Section 
of the United States Internal Revenue Code and recognized under State not-for?profit law.

Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Chapter 74, Article
II, Division 2 of this Code for owner-occupied Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or
Class 9 multifamily residential property. For the purpose of this Ordinance, ?property tax incentive?
shall not include a Class 9 desiqnation qranted to supportive living facilities, which establish an
alternative to nursinq home care for low income older persons and
persons with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State Department of Public Aid
pursuant to Chapter 74, Article ll, Division 2 of this Code, the County Real Property Assessment
Classification Ordinance.

 

Purchasinq Aqent means the Purchasinq Agent of Cook County.

to nor-sinth 


FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28, 2007
PAGE 6

Waqe means compensation due to an employee by reason of his employment. including
allowances for gratuities and for meals and todqinq that are furnished by the employer and actually
used by the employee. This definition of wane may be further defined by the Cook County Bureau of
Human Resources.

(C)

Every contract shall contain

a provision or provisions stipulating that they?asseeurrently?payqng

     

 


empieyees?fer?weslnz?at?net- less-thanathealpaangage the contractor and all subcontractors are
currently paying their employees a living wage and obliqatinq the contractor and all
subcontractors to pay their employees not less than the living wage throughout the duration of
the contract.

 





to)




. Eyem
employer that receives or renews a property tax incentive shall provide an affidavit to the
Assessor stipulating that such employer Is currently payinq the living waqe to its employees as
required by this Ordinance.

 

The Purchasing Agent shall require as part of the bidding and sole source procedure that any
covered contractor provide theGeanty?certification of its compliance with this section.

Any contract that violates the provisions contained in this section shall be subject to
cancellation by the County?Board.


The CFCI shall annually notify all employers required to pay
the living wage of the annual livinq waqe adiustment. Within 30 days of said notification, such
employers shall submit an affidavit to the CFO statinthhat_(li they paid the living wage during
the previous calendar year. and that they are currently paying the living waqe as adiusted
by the CFO. If an employer fails to timely submit such an affidavit. the CFO shall notify the
Assessor to revoke any property tax incentive the employer may have received. or notify
the Purchasing Agent to cancel. subiect to Board approval, any contract the employer may
have with Cook County.

 

Beam? The Assessor shall provide annual written notification to the CFO of all employers
receiving property tax incentives including the employer?s name. mailing. and email address.

FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28, 2007
PAGE 7

 

employer shall notify its employees of the living wage requirement at the time of hire and shall
notify all of its employees annually of the adjustment to the living wage. If any employee
contends that his employer is not paying a living wage as required by this Ordinance, that
employee may file a complaint with the Commission. The Commission shall issue rules and
regulations necessary to implement its investiqatory powers. if at the conclusion of the
Commission?s investigation, the Commission finds that the employer is not paying a living
wage_as required by this Ordinance. it snail t1) notify the Assessor to revoke any property tax
incentive the employer may have received, or (2) notify the Purchasing Agent to cancel,
subiect to Board approval. any contract the employer may have with Cook County.

 

At such time any disqualified employer
achieves compliance with the living wage as required by this Ordinance the employer may
notify the CFO. The CFO shall notify the Assessor or the Purchasing Agent that the employer is
eligible for reinstatement of either the property tax incentive or a contract, subiect to Board

approval.

 

If any one or more of the provisions of
this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or the application thereof IS held invalid, the validity
of the remainder of this Ordinance and the application of such provisions to other persons and
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(I) This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon enactment.

Chairman Murphy opened the meeting. The Secretary took attendance. No action was taken on Item
Number 285079. Chairman Murphy recessed the meeting.

Chairman Murphy reconvened the meeting on March 28, 2007 at 11:00 am. She called on
Commissioner Maldonado to speak on behalf of the Substitute Amendments to Item Number 285079.

Commissioner Maldonado noted that the Substitute Amendments are the result of his consultation with
the State?s Attorney?s Office, the Assessor's Office and the Chief Financial Officer.

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved the approval of the
Substitute Amendments. The motion carried.

Commissioner Maldonado provided the following clarification with regard to the Substitute
Amendments: He stated that the Substitute Amendments provide the means to enforce the Living
Wage Ordinance. He touched on the main points of the Substitute Amendments: Owner?occupied,
industrial properties (Class 8 properties) are now included in the Living Wage Ordinance. The Chief
Financial Officer makes the annual adjustment to the living wage, and noti?es the employers of this or
any other change to the living wage. Employers must notify current and prospective employees of the
living wage. Employees can file formal complaints against their employers through the Cook County
Commission on Human Rights, if a living wage is being withheld. Any company out of compliance with
the Living Wage Ordinance will lose their tax exemptions and/or their contract with the County.

FINANCE LABOR REPORT
MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28,2007
PAGE 8

Commissioner Maldonado clarified that the amended Living Wage Ordinance applies to both employers
who have contracts with the County and employers who receive tax exemptions from the County.

Chairman Murphy inquired whether there is a two-year waiting period before an employer who has not
been in compliance can reapply for a tax exemption or contract with the County.

Commissioner Maldonado replied that, while that was originally in the Ordinance, the current version
allows that once the employer cemes into compliance, they can apply to be reinstated.

The Committee gave leave for Commissioner Sims to be added as a sponsor of the Substitute
Amendments.

Commissioner Maldonado noted that Cook County?s living wage is computed by taking the poverty
threshold set by the federal government for a family of four and doubling this amount. Currently Cook
County's living wage is $9.43/hour.

Commissioner Butler inquired as to who will be enforcing the living wage.

Chairman Murphy replied that the Chief Financial Officer will require a yearly affidavit from every
company attesting that they are in compliance.

Commissioner Butler inquired as to who would police this.

Chairman Murphy replied that an employee would have to file a complaint with the Cook County
Human Rights Commission.

Commissioner Butler inquired whether the State?s Attorney?s Office had reviewed the amended item.
Commissioner Maldonado replied that the following entities, in addition to the State's Attorney's Office,
have approved the amended item: Chief Financial Officer, Assessor, Assessor?s Office, Purchasing

Agent and the Human Rights Commission.

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Beavers, moved the approval of
Communication Number 285079 as amended. The motion carried.

FINANCE LABOR SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT

MARCH 13, 2007 RECONVENED ON MARCH 28, 2007
PAGE 9

Commissioner Maldonado moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Butler
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE
MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 285079 Approved as Amended

Respectfully submitted,
Finance Labor Subcommittee

sum-We

Joan Patricia Murphy, Chairman

Attest:

?iaw

/?tl)ew DeLeon, Secretary

