May 10th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:00 AM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “5/10/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Ara bel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvine,
Andre Youngblood, Johnny Miller. Director Alejandro Silva was absent.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Jim Thompson, Meghan Carter, Keith Kysel
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of April
5th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with five yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess into executive session, based
upon Illinois Open Meetings Act Sections 2C-5 and 11. After being moved and seconded, the motion
was approved with five yes votes.
After returning to Open Session, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Items 4-A,
4-B, and 4-C, the property acquisition ordinances for property located at 5619 and 5657 North Broadway
Avenue, and at 3246 North Wilton Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization
Project. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve Agenda Item 4-D, an ordinance authorizing the
acquisition of real property located at 5225 North Kedzie, Chicago, Illinois. After being moved and
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve the settlement recommendation of $6 million
for Circuit Court Case N. 2014 L 00107, the case of Amy Koplin verses Chicago Transit Authority and
Ramona Smith Spencer. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Item 5-A, an
ordinance authorizing amendment to the Chicago Transit Authority supplemental retirement plan for
certain officers, executives, and supervisory and professional employees. After being moved and
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Irvine presented the report.
The committee reviewed the monthly report on Finance, heard the Independent Auditor’s Report for
Fiscal Year 2016 and approved the April 5th, 2017 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine stated that
Board Agenda Item 6-A, a lease on East Garfield Boulevard in Chicago, also listed on the Finance, Audit,
and Budget Committee agenda, had been deferred and not acted upon. Mr. Irvine also stated that all
other Committee agenda items, listed on the Board agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed,
placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
1

 Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After being
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved May 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-34 through 017-43.
CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Report.
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com , “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”, May
10th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the May 10th, 2017 Chicago
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 