Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, December 14, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

17-0637
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 11/16/2016

17-0460
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 10/26/2016.

17-0462
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the special meeting held on 11/10/2016.

 17-0575
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 11/16/2016.

16-5778
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE TO THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE OF THE COOK
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Article
III - County Board, Division 2. - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105 is hereby amended
as follows:
…
(j)

Agendas.
(1) Board meeting agenda. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered
at the meeting, except for items to be included in the consent calendar as set forth in
subsection (3) of this Section. Material pertinent to an item on a Board agenda shall be
supplied, along with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the
exception of materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be
available to the public in the office of the Secretary.
a.

Items may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the day
on which an agenda is required to be distributed. This subsection shall not apply to
items reported to the Board by any of its committees of the whole.

b.

Items may be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the President or any
Commissioner. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an ordinance or
resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the Chair of
the committee. Items may be placed on the agenda of a committee meeting by a
Commissioner who is a member of the committee or the President, in his ex officio
capacity, provided that such item has been referred to the committee by the Board
pursuant to Section 2-106(o).

c.

It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare, post and distribute all agendas for
meetings of the Board, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare, post and
distribute agendas for committee meetings.

Page 2 of 3

 d.

No issuance of any debt instrument which pledges the full faith and credit of the
County shall be the subject of final action by the Board of Commissioners unless it
has been preceded by at least one public hearing on the prospective matter by the
Finance Committee. Notification of such hearing shall be the responsibility of the
Finance Committee, which notice shall be as set forth in Section 2-105(i).

e.

Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of the Board
shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the
meeting at which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or
substitute, the Secretary shall immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the
President, all Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of
meetings and it shall be posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location
where the meeting is to be held, and shall be made available to the public in the office
of the Secretary. The substitute ordinance shall not be considered until the meeting of
the Board or Committee following the meeting at which the substitute was
introduced. This rule may be waived for technical amendments or emergencies.
…

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption (or give specific date)
Legislative History: 10/5/16 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations
Legislative History: 11/16/16 - Board of Commissioners - refer to Rules and Administration

_______________________________
Matthew DeLeon
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Daley
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 3 of 3

 