Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, October 8, 2014

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 (dd), public testimony
will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language
when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or
failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person
from providing future testimony.

14-5207
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Eric Davis
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: October 8, 2019
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

 14-5208
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Monica Schwarm
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2017
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-5209
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Susie Park
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/1/2015. Ms. Park will fill the vacancy of Theresa Larkin.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.
14-5210
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Larry Paarlberg
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Lincoln-Lansing Drainage District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2017
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Page 2 of 13

 14-5212
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Carol Ranieri
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Crawford Countryside Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2017
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-5286
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Keith Bevans
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2018, or until a successor is appointed
Summary: Keith Bevans is a partner in Bain & Company’s Chicago office and is head of the firm’s Global
Consultant Recruiting team. He has done several pro-bono projects for the City of Chicago focused on
healthcare transformation, violence reduction, and cultural arts. Mr. Bevans earned an MBA with distinction
from Harvard Business School, and graduated with a Bachelor of Science and Master of Engineering from MIT.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-5287
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ricardo Estrada
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors

Page 3 of 13

 Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2018, or until a successor is appointed
Summary: Ricardo Estrada is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Metropolitan Family Services, one of
Chicago’s first human services agencies. Prior to joining Metropolitan he served as First Deputy Commissioner
of the City of Chicago’s Department of Family and Support Services. Mr. Estrada earned an MBA from the
University of Illinois at Chicago, an M.A. in Policy and Administration from the University of Chicago, and a
B.S. in Psychology from Loyola University of Chicago.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-5288
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Emilie Junge
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2018, or until a successor is appointed
Summary: Emilie Junge has more than thirty years of experience in the legal field, health care policy, organizing
and labor representation. Presently, Ms. Junge is a pro bono attorney with Cabrini-Green Legal Aid. She earned
her law degree from the UDC David A. Clarke School of Law, and a Bachelor of Arts from the University
of
Illinois at Chicago Circle.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

14-5289
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ada Mary Gugenheim
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 10/8/2018, or until a successor is appointed

Page 4 of 13

 Summary: Ada Mary Gugenheim currently serves on the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of
Directors, and is a former senior program officer at the Chicago Community Trust. Ms. Gugenheim is a graduate
of the University of London, Royal Holloway College; and the Nightingale School of Nursing, St. Thomas’s
Hospital.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-5298
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Patrick M. Blanchard
Position: Independent Inspector General
Department/Board/Commission: Office of the Cook County Independent Inspector General
Effective date: 10/15/2014
Expiration date: 10/14/2018
Summary: In 2007, the Cook County Board of Commissioners through enactment of a Cook County Ordinance
created the first Office of Independent Inspector General for Cook County. Following the enactment of the
Ordinance, the Cook County Bar Association and the Chicago Bar Association agreed to convene a nominating
committee tasked with the responsibility to recommend qualified candidates. Thereafter, secondary interviews
of the recommended candidates were conducted by a bipartisan selection committee that was comprised of four
Cook County Commissioners, the Director of Ethics and the Cook County State’s Attorney. Upon completion
of this process, the current Independent Inspector General, Patrick M. Blanchard was nominated for appointment
and in October of 2008, Mr. Blanchard was appointed Cook County’s first Independent Inspector General. Mr.
Blanchard’s appointment expires on 10/14/2014.
In accordance with Section 2-282 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, authorization is hereby requested to
reappoint Patrick M. Blanchard to a subsequent four year term. Under the leadership of Mr. Blanchard, the
Office of the Cook County Independent Inspector General has proven to be an independent office in which
employees, vendors, and residents have opportunity to voice concerns and remain confident that their complaints
will be independently and thoroughly investigated.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
14-3306
Sponsored by: TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
EARLEAN COLLINS and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY LOBBYIST REGISTRATION ORDINANCE
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part I. General
Ordinances, Chapter 2. Administration, Article VI. Ethics, Division 3. Lobbyists, Sections 2-622, 2-632, 2-634,
2-637 and 2-640 are hereby amended as follows:

Page 5 of 13

 Sec. 2-622. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative action means the execution or rejection of any rule, regulation, legislative rule, standard, fee, rate,
contractual agreement, purchasing agreement or other delegated legislative or quasi-legislative action to be taken or
withheld by any County official or County employee.
Board means the County Board and any and all of its standing or special committees or subcommittees.
Clerk means the duly elected or appointed Clerk of the County.
Commissioner means any of the duly elected or duly appointed County Board members.
Compensation means money, thing of value or other pecuniary benefits received or to be received in return for, or as
reimbursement for, or as a result of, services rendered or to be rendered, for lobbying. This includes a contract,
promise or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable, to provide or arrange for compensation for services
rendered or to be rendered.
County agency means any board, commission, department or authority under the jurisdiction of the President or
Board or any other County official.
County employee means an individual employed by the County whether part-time or full-time.
County matter means any executive action, legislative action or administrative action.
County official means the Assessor, members of the Board of Review, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Clerk,
Commissioners, President, Recorder of Deeds, Sheriff, State's Attorney, and Treasurer of the County, and any
County agency or member thereof.
Direct affiliation means relationship with any natural person or spouse, father, mother, son or daughter possessing
or owning an interest in a Lobbying Enterprise.
Executive action means the proposal, drafting, development, consideration, amendment, adoption, approval,
promulgation, issuance, modification, rejection or postponement by a County official or County employee of a rule,
regulation, order, decision, determination, contractual agreement, purchasing agreement or other quasi-legislative
or quasi-judicial action or proceeding.
Expenditure means anything having a value of $10.00 or more including, but not limited to, a payment, distribution,
loan, advance, deposit, political contribution, honoraria, travel or entertainment expense, meal or beverage expense,
or gift of money. This includes a contract, promise, or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable, to make an
expenditure, for services rendered or to be rendered.
File, filed, or filing means:
(1)Delivery to an office of the Clerk by the close of business of the prescribed filing date; or
(2)Deposit with the United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, in sufficient time so that the mailed documents
arrive at an office of the Clerk by the close of business of the prescribed filing date.
Gift means anything having a value of $10.00 or more given without consideration or expectation of return.

Page 6 of 13

 Legislation means ordinances, resolutions, amendments, nominations, appointments, reports, contracts or proposed
contracts, and other matters pending or proposed in the Board or which require Board approval.
Legislative action means the development, drafting, introduction, consideration, modification, adoption, rejection,
review, enactment, or passage or defeat of any ordinance, amendment, motion, resolution, report, nomination,
administrative rule or other matter by any County official or County employee. The term "legislative action" also
means the action of the President in approving or vetoing any ordinance, resolution or motion or portion thereof,
and the action of any County official or County employee in the development of a proposal for introduction before
the Board.
Lobbyist means any person who, on behalf of any person other than himself, or as any part of his duties as an
employee of another, undertakes to influence any legislative or administrative action, including, but not limited to:
(1)A bond inducement ordinance;
(2)A zoning matter;
(3)A concession agreement;
(4)The creation of a tax increment financing district;
(5)The establishment of a Class 6(b) Cook County property tax classification;
(6)The introduction, passage or other action to be taken on an ordinance, resolution, motion, order, appointment or
other matter before the Cook County Board of Commissioners;
(7)The preparation of contract specifications;
(8)The solicitation, award or administration of a contract;
(9)The award or administration of a grant, loan, or other agreement involving the disbursement of public monies;
or
(10)Any other determination made by an elected or appointed county official or employee of the county with
respect to the procurement of goods, services or construction.
Provided, however, that a person shall not be deemed to have undertaken to influence any legislative or
administrative action solely by submitting an application for a county permit or license or by responding to a county
request for proposals or qualifications.
The term "lobbyist" shall include, but not be limited to, any Attorney, accountant, or consultant engaged in the
above-described activities; provided, however, that an Attorney shall not be considered a lobbyist while
representing clients in a formal adversarial hearing, unless said Attorney is also an elected official of the county; and
provided further that the term "lobbyist" shall not include a person who, on an unpaid basis, seeks to influence
legislative or administrative action on behalf of an entity that is not engaged in a profit-seeking enterprise; further
provided that an employee, officer or director of a not-for-profit entity who seeks to influence legislative or
administrative action on behalf of such an entity shall not be considered a lobbyist for purposes of this chapter.
Lobbying Enterprise means any entity that hires, retains, employs, or compensates a natural person to lobby local,
state or federal governments or agencies.
Lobbying Activity Report means a log maintained by each Lobbyist and submitted to the Cook County Clerk that
records all contacts by a Lobbyist with any County Official or County employee.

Page 7 of 13

 Person means any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm, association, union, trust, estate, as well as any
parent or subsidiary of any of the foregoing, and whether or not operated for profit.
Political contribution means any money or thing of value given to a political committee, as defined in 10 ILCS
5/9-1.9 (political committee defined), in the County.
...
Sec. 2-632. Persons not required to register.
This division is not intended and shall not be construed to apply to the following:
(1)Persons who own, publish, or are employed by a newspaper or other regularly published periodical, or who own
or are employed by a radio station, television station, or other bona fide news medium which in the ordinary course
of business disseminates news, editorial or other comment, or paid advertisements for the purpose of influencing
any County matter. This exemption shall not be applicable to such an individual insofar as they receive additional
compensation or expenses from some source other than the bona fide news medium for the purpose of influencing
any County matter. This exemption does not apply to newspapers and periodicals owned by or published by trade
associations and profit corporations engaged primarily in endeavors other than the dissemination of news.
(2)Persons providing professional services in drafting bills or in advising and rendering opinions to clients as to the
construction and effect of proposed or pending legislation where such professional services are not otherwise,
directly or indirectly, connected with legislative action.
(3)Elected officials and employees of other units of government acting in their official capacity.
(4)Persons who, by reason of their special skills or knowledge of any matter pending before the Board, are requested
in writing by a Commissioner or the President to discuss such matter before the Board, regardless of whether or not
such persons receive compensation for so appearing. This exemption shall only be applicable to the extent that such
persons appear in the foregoing capacity. To the extent that such persons also engage in activities with respect to
which this division otherwise requires them to register, they shall so register with respect to those activities.
(5)Any full-time employee of a bona fide church or religious organization who represents that organization solely
for the purpose of protecting the right of the members thereof to practice the religious doctrines of such church or
religious organization.
(6)Persons seeking to do business with Cook County, who are not Lobbyists as defined in Section 2-622, whose
lobbying activities contacts with County employees are limited to occasional sales-related inquiries or solicitations,
the submission of bids, or responses to requests for proposals or requests for qualifications, and who make no
expenditures which would otherwise be reportable under Section 2-634
(7)Persons representing clients before County agencies which conduct adversarial, assessment or quasi-judicial
hearings and the decisions of which may ultimately be appealed to the Circuit Court of Cook County or the Board,
representing clients in court proceedings and in anticipation of court proceedings, and representing clients at
internal disciplinary hearings. This exemption shall only be applicable to the extent that such persons appear in the
foregoing capacity. To the extent that such persons also engage in activities with respect to which this division
otherwise requires them to register, they shall so register with respect to those activities.
(8)Persons who are negotiating the terms of a collective bargaining agreement or other contract. This exemption
shall only be applicable to the extent of such activity. To the extent that such persons also engage in activities with
respect to which this division otherwise requires them to register, they shall so register with respect to those
activities.
(9)Persons lobbying on behalf of a neighborhood, community or civic organization who receive no compensation
and who make no expenditures to or for the benefit of a County official or County employee in connection with such
lobbying. This exemption shall only be applicable to the extent that such persons appear in the foregoing capacity.

Page 8 of 13

 To the extent that such persons also engage in activities with respect to which this division otherwise requires them
to register, they shall so register with respect to those activities.
(10)County officials and County employees acting in their official capacity.
(11)Persons providing recommendations for other persons seeking employment with the County. This exemption
shall only be applicable to the extent that such persons are involved in such activities. To the extent that such
persons also engage in activities with respect to which this division otherwise requires them to register, they shall so
register with respect to those activities.
(12)Persons who are owners, directors, officers or full-time employees of a business, which person's lobbying
activities are limited to fewer than two County matters per calendar year which would otherwise require registration
under Section 2-631 and who make no expenditures which would otherwise be reportable under Section 2-634
...
Sec. 2-634. Reports.
(a)Every person so registering shall, so long as the person's activity continues, file with the Clerk between January 1
and January 20 and between July 1 and July 20, two reports under oath: a lobbying expenditure report and a
lLobbying aActivity rReport.
(1)The lobbying expenditure report shall state all expenses made by the person to or for the benefit of a
County official or County employee, notwithstanding whether lobbying was occurring at the time of the
expenditure, during the previous six months. The report shall show in detail the County official or County
employee to whom or for whose benefit such expenditures were made. Expenditures made by the registrant
shall include expenditures made by the registrant's employer and/or contractor for whom the registrant is
performing lobbying services unless the employer or contractor independently registers and reports
pursuant to Section 2-631(3). If the registrant lobbies for more than one person, they shall identify which
expenditures were made on behalf of each such person. Any expenditure over $100.00 shall disclose not
only the amount of the expenditure and to whom or for whose benefit such expenditure was made, but also
disclose the date of the expenditure, the use and purpose for which the expenditure was made, and the
County matter in connection with which the expenditure was made. If the registrant made no such
expenditures during the reporting periods herein described, the registrant shall file and state herein that the
registrant had no such expenditures.
(2)The Lobbying aActivity rReport shall include all lobbying contacts made with County officials or
County employees. For each such contact, the report shall list the date of the contact, the County official or
County employee with whom the lobbying contact was made, the entity on whose behalf the lobbying
contact was made, the location of the contact, the subject matter of the lobbying contact, including any
County contact, involved in the contact. If the lobbyist has a relationship by birth or marriage with the
County official or employee lobbied, such relationship shall be stated. If the registrant made no such
lobbying contacts during the reporting periods herein described, the registrant shall file and state herein that
the registrant had no such contacts.
(b)Individual expenditures which aggregate $100.00 or less otherwise required to be reported under (a)(1) of this
section may be reported in aggregate amounts without detail, provided that any gift solicited by a County official or
County employee must be reported in detail as set forth above, additionally listing the recipient of such gift.
©Reports required under (a)(1) of this section shall include for each client the following aggregate expenses
attributable to lobbying activities, to be identified as such: advertising and publications; lodging and travel that are
not reported by another registrant; educational or advocacy expenses; honoraria; meals, beverages, and
entertainment expenses; political contributions; and gifts.

Page 9 of 13

 (d)With respect to each client of the registrant, the registrant shall report the following in the lobbying expenditure
report:
(1)The name, business and permanent address and nature of business of the client and any other business
entities on whose behalf lobbying was performed for the same compensation.
(2)A statement of the amount of compensation.
(3)The name of each person lobbied and a brief description of the County matter involved.
(e)A registrant who terminates employment or duties which required registration under this division shall give the
Clerk, within 30 days after the date of such termination, written notice of such termination and shall include
therewith a report of the lobbying expenditures described herein, covering the period of time since the filing of the
registrant’s last report to the date of termination of employment, and a report of the lobbying activity described
herein, covering the period of time since the filing of the registrant’s last report to the date of termination of
employment. The Clerk shall post the filed reports on the Clerk’s website within three business days from the
established due date. Such notices and reports shall be final and relieve such registrant of further reporting under
this division unless and until the person later takes employment or assumes duties that require to again register
under this division.
(f)Failure without just cause to file any such report within the time designated herein or the knowing reporting of
false or incomplete information shall constitute a violation of this division. In addition to other penalties provided in
this division, any person filing a late report under this section shall be assessed a late filing fee as set out in Section
32-1 per day the report is late, payable to the Clerk upon filing. Any person filing a late report after January 31 (for
reports due by January 20) or after July 31 (for reports due by July 20) shall also be subject to a penalty of $150.00
per day, to be levied as set forth in Section 2-637. Any registrant who is required to file a report hereunder may
effect one 30-day extension of time for filing the report by filing with the Clerk, not less than ten days before the
date on which the statement is due, a declaration of intention to defer the filing of the report. The filing of such
declaration shall suspend application of the penalty provisions contained herein for the duration of the extension.
Failure to file by the extended date shall constitute a violation of this division and shall subject the registrant to the
penalty described herein.
…
Sec. 2-637. Enforcement.
(a)Any person found by a court to be guilty of filing a late registration or report after January 31 (in the case of
reports due after by January 20) or after July 31 (in the case of reports due by July 20) shall be assessed a fine of
$100.00 per day late.
(b)In addition to the penalties provided for in Subsection (a) of this section, any person convicted of any violation of
any provision subsection of this division shall be fined $250.00 per occurrence by the Cook County Clerk and is
prohibited for a period of three years from the date of the conviction from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any
lobbying activities. The Cook County Clerk shall create procedures for the imposition and collection of any fines.
...
Sec. 2-640. Annual Ethics Training.
Each Lobbyist shall attend an ethics education seminar offered on a regular basis by the Cook County Clerk within
120 days of registering as a Lobbyist pursuant to Section 2-633. The seminar shall educate persons as to their duties
and responsibilities under this article.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

Page 10 of 13

 Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee
Legislative History: 9/8/14 Legislation and Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
recommended for deferral.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners deferred
14-3764
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION URGING THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS TO OPPOSE CUTS IN FUNDING TO
THE FEDERAL FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
WHEREAS, More than 15 percent of Illinoisans struggle to provide enough food for their families and more than
22 percent of Illinoisans do not have consistent access to adequate food; and
WHEREAS, Illinois ranks 24th in the nation for childhood hunger and 21 percent of children live in poverty; and
WHEREAS, there are children in every county of the State of Illinois who suffer from a lack of adequate food and
nutrition; and
WHEREAS, no child deserves to go without food and underfed children suffer from increased risk of chronic
diseases, increased rates of behavioral problems, decreased academic achievement, and long-term social and
economic impacts; and
WHEREAS, 95,000 participate in the summer meals program; and
WHEREAS, 32 percent of low-income families find themselves without enough food in summer months; and 43
percent of low-income families find it hard to make ends meet in the summer months; and low-income families
spend an additional $300 per month in the summer months to provide food for their families; and
WHEREAS, 5,427,555 summer meals were provided through the Summer Food Service Program and Seamless
Summer Option, and these meals were distributed through 2,238 sites, including 1,601 sites in Cook County, of
which only 905 were open to the community and did not require enrollment; and
WHEREAS, Summer Food Service Program sites are an ideal model for summer food delivery and provide on-site
adult supervision and enrichment activities for children; however, more SFSP sites are needed that are open to the
community; and
WHEREAS, Summer Food Service Programs should be encouraged to operate as open sites that are readily
available to the community so that all children can access healthy, nutritious meals during the summer; and
WHEREAS, eligible providers should be encouraged to participate in the Child and Adult Care Food Program
Afterschool Meals Program; and
WHEREAS, it should be optimal for schools participating in the School Breakfast Program to utilize alternative
delivery models, such as Breakfast in the Classroom, Grab ‘n’ Go, and Second Chance Breakfast, to provide
breakfast after the bell to all students at no cost to students;

Page 11 of 13

 NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Commissioners of the Cook County Board do hereby urge
Congress to develop a 2015 Child Nutrition Reauthorization that protects and strengthens the federal food and
nutrition safety net for children and families, including School Breakfasts and Summer Meals and that we urge
legislators on Capitol Hill to oppose cuts in funding to federal food and nutrition programs for children and families
through the annual federal budget process or any other measures; and
BE IT FURTHUR RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this resolution be delivered to the members of the Illinois
Congressional delegation, the President of the United States and the United States Secretary of Agriculture.
Legislative History: 6/18/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.
14-5299
Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioner and TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County
Board of Commissioners, JERRY BUTLER, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
JESÚS G. GARCÍA, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE, EDWIN
REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, LARRY
SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LOBBYING PROHIBITED IN COUNTY BOARD ROOM
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners recognizes that lobbying activity by registered lobbyists
is incompatible with the proper conduct of business during such time as when a session of the Board or any of its
Committees is convened and in progress, and members of the Board are present on the floor of the Cook County
Board Room.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article VII Ethics, Division 3 Lobbyists, Section 2-636 of the Cook County Code is hereby be
amended as follows:
Sec. 2 -636. Restricted activities.
(a) No person shall retain or employ another to lobby for compensation contingent in whole or in part upon the
result obtained or the final disposition of any matter, and no person shall accept any such employment or render any
such service for contingent compensation.
(b) No County official or County employee may solicit any personal gift from a registrant. Personal gifts do not
include contributions required to be reported under the Election Code or under Federal election law, or
contributions solicited for bona fide humanitarian, civic, charitable or religious organizations, events or efforts.
(c) No registrant shall knowingly make a false statement in any report required to be filed under this division.
(d) No County official or County employee shall receive compensation for lobbying County government other
than from the County.

Page 12 of 13

 (e) No registered lobbyist shall attempt to communicate with a member of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners for purposes of discussing any matter of county business in the Cook County Board Room,
commonly known as Room 569 of the County Building, while said member is present on the floor of the Cook
County Board Room and during such time as an active session of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, or any
committee thereof, is convened and in progress.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

_________________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 13 of 13

 