REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS
January 4, 2001

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Hansen, Vice Chairman Lechowicz, Commissioner(s) Collins, Daley,
Moran, Silvestri and Sutker (7)

Absent:

Commissioner(s) Schumann and Sims (2)

Also
Present:

Commissioner Jerry Butler; Commissioner Allan C. Carr; Steven S. Morrill, Morrill &
Associates-Cook County Board's lobbyist in Springfield; Eugene M. Barnes, E.M.
Barnes & Associates-Cook County Board President's lobbyist in Springfield; Gary
Rycyzyn, Director of Elections-County Clerk's Office; Donna Lach, State's Attorney's
Office.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County met pursuant to notice on Thursday, January 4, 2001 at the hour of 2:00 PM in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
With leave of the body, Chairman Hansen asked the Committee to consider Communication 240494 as
the first item of business.
240494

CRAWFORD COUNTRYSIDE SANITARY DISTRICT (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting
a Communication, dated December 19, 2000 from John H. Stroger, Jr., President,
Cook County Board of Commissioners:
I hereby appoint IRENE A. KLAIN to the Crawford Countryside Sanitary District for a
term to begin immediately. According to Illinois Statute 70 ILCS 2405/3, the expiration
dates for appointees to new sanitary districts are determined by lot at their first
meeting.
I submit this communication for your approval.

Vice Chairman Lechowicz, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved the approval of
Communication No. 240494. The motion carried.
Item 1

House Bill 1137, regarding use of new election equipment.

The Chairman asked the County Board’s lobbyist to report on the current status and the prospect of
passage of this item.

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 4, 2001
PAGE 2
Steve Morrill stated he had been advised there were no prospects of moving the bill during the
remaining two days of the current General Assembly.
Mr. Morrill reviewed the statutory need for the legislation. He stated the goal of using new election
equipment is to shorten the working day for the judges of elections by quickening returns and by
reducing the opportunity for vote fraud. He discussed the new equipment’s features: 1) voters insert
the ballot into the tabulation machines; 2) tabulation machines maintain the vote count in real time.
Mr. Morrill also reviewed two features requested by the County Clerk and Chicago Board of Elections:
having the machines automatically return a ballot to the voter if it detected a ballot that 1) lacked a
judge of elections initials on the back, and/or 2) had an over-vote. He stated the goal of using these
features was to insure that votes would not be uncounted because of an error by election judges or by
the voter.
Mr. Morrill stated that the County Clerk's Election Department and Chicago Board of Elections gave a
presentation of the new election equipment features to the General Assembly a year ago. At that time
concerns were expressed regarding the security of the real-time count feature, the voter insertion
feature and automatic ballot rejection feature. Mr. Morrill stated that concerns remain regarding the
automatic ballot rejection feature.
Steve Morrill informed the members that language had been drafted containing the necessary
authorization to use the new equipment with the real-time count and voter insertion features, but the
other features were put aside for future consideration. Mr. Morrill stated that the measure stands in the
House Rules Committee. Mr. Morrill said the argument expressed during recent discussions was that if
authority is given to election authorities in Cook County to use and test new voting technology, then
similar authorization for DuPage County election authorities to use and test new equipment should also
be included.
In response to Chairman Hansen's inquiry on how the lobbyists plan to get this matter passed, Steve
Morrill stated that it is important that the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate reach an
accord. He recommended that the county board members contact their respective legislators regarding
this issue.
Commissioner Daley asked Eugene Barnes whether the latest Senate Conference Committee Report
draft included the authorization the City and County need in order to use the equipment with all four
features.
Mr. Barnes stated the draft did not include authorization to all the features. He stated that during the
Spring Session, the Speaker had expressed to the Senate that Direct Recording Electronically (DRE)
authorization was not his concern and did make it clear that the House would not move the bill if the
Senate sent language that did not include the authorization Chicago and Cook County need in order to
use the equipment’s four features.
Vice Chairman Lechowicz expressed concern that without the authorization to use the equipment with
all the features purchased by the Board, there is the possibility that errors by the election judges and/or
an error by the voter could disenfranchise voters in future elections.
Concurring with Vice Chairman Lechowicz, Commissioner Daley stressed the importance of
immediately obtaining the authorization from the General Assembly to allow for the training of election
judges and the implementation of the machines optional features prior to the local elections in April.

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 4, 2001
PAGE 3
Chairman Hansen requested a memo from the lobbyists with recommendations to the President and
Board on how to proceed. The Chairman asked that the memo be attached to two legislative proposals
including: 1) a draft authorizing the use of the equipment's features allowing for voters to directly insert
the completed ballot into the vote tabulation machines and for the machines, in real-time fashion, to
maintain the vote count; and 2) a draft authorizing the machines to automatically return a ballot to the
voter if a ballot lacks a judge of elections initials on the back or has an overvote.
Vice Chairman Lechowicz suggested the lobbyists plan to introduce bills in both the House and Senate
and include in the memo the names of possible sponsors. He also asked that the lobbyists coordinate
drafting the substantive language and lobbying efforts with the County Clerk's Election Department and
the Chicago Board of Elections.
The Chairman called upon Gary Rycyzyn to comment on the County Clerk's desires in terms of the
features of the equipment and on security concerns relative to the automatic ballot return feature. Gary
Rycyzyn stated the Clerk would like to have authorization to use the equipment with all its features.
In response to Commissioner Daley's question if any election judges were trained on use of the new
features, Gary Rycyzyn stated that since the features were not used in the last election, no training was
necessary. Mr. Rycyzyn stated he believed at least one judge, from each party would have to be
trained in each precinct.
Chairman Hansen expressed his concern on providing improved voter and election judge instruction on
how to cast and properly handle a ballot if all the features are authorized. Chairman Hansen also
stressed his concern regarding the rejection feature compromising secrecy and the need for allowing
only a voter to handle a ballot to be counted.
Chairman Hansen requested a memo from Gary Rycyzyn stating the Clerk's policy and procedures to
protect the security of ballots, by Monday, January 8, specifically relating to the handling of ballots cast
and then rejected when a vote defect is detected by the automatic return feature.
Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice Chairman Lechowicz.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation &
Intergovernmental Relations
____________________________
Carl R. Hansen, Chairman

Attest:
_________________________________
Sandra K. Williams, Secretary

 