MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
January 15, 2014
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Wednesday, January 15, 2014 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 10:20 A.M. Present were the following: Members Maribeth Vander Weele,
Lee Gould, Michael Holewinski. Chairman Aaron Jaffe participated via telephone.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of November 21, 2013. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski gave a summary of the year in Illinois Riverboats: the total tax revenue
was just under $500M, the local share just under $100M. The IGB approved the license
renewals of Harrah’s Metropolis and Grand Victoria Casino. The IGB approved 3 new suppliers
and 4 suppliers renewing their licenses. We had 1,901 occupational licensee and 67 key persons
approvals. Our SEP program has just over 10,000 enrollees. The Gaming Board issued 19
Disciplinary Complaints, performed 939 criminal enforcement proceedings/investigations and
made 642 arrests to date.
The Administrator also announced 2 staff members will be leaving the Gaming Board to further
their careers.
ITEMS FOR FINAL ACTION –
•

Casino Queen, Inc. – Request to Refinance
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
Casino Queen Inc.’s request to refinance the existing debt structure and sale of
designated property as described within the ESOP Acquisition documents provided.
As a condition of approval, all executed documents upon completion of the
transaction must be provided to the Board. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 •

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Jeffrey H. Ehlers, Executive
Committee Member of the Managing Joint Venture – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve Jeffrey H.
Ehlers as a Key Person of Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino in
his position as Executive Committee Member of the Managing Joint Venture.
Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

•

Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – James C.
Simmons, Director of Surveillance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
James C. Simmons as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as
Director of Surveillance of Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel
and Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Kelly R.
Mendoza, Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve Kelly R.
Mendoza as an Occupational Licensee Level One in her position as Internal Auditor
of Empress Casino Joliet Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member
Holewinski seconded the motion. Member Vander Weele opposed the motion. Chairman
Jaffe was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.

•

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – David M. Jamros,
Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
David M. Jamros as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as Internal
Auditor of Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora. Member
Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

•

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – David J. Blaha,
Internal Audit Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve David J.
Blaha as an Occupational Licensee Level One in his position as Internal Audit
Manager of Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM –
•

AGS Illinois, LLLP – Kenneth L. Bossingham, Chief Operating Officer – Key
Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
Kenneth L. Bossingham as a Key Person of AGS Illinois, LLLP in his position as

2

 Chief Executive Officer. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Spielo International Canada, ULC – Jaymin B. Patel, President/CEO – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board approve Jaymin
B. Patel as a Key Person of Spielo International Canada, ULC in his position as
President/Chief Executive Officer. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Spielo International USA, LLC – Jaymin B. Patel, President/CEO – Key Person
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board approve
Jaymin B. Patel as a Key Person of Spielo International USA, LLC in his position as
President/Chief Executive Officer. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Global Cash Access, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board renew the
Supplier’s License of Global Cash Access, Inc. for a term of four years retroactive to
December 19, 2013, expiring in December 2017 and designate the following positions
and individuals as Key Persons of Global Cash Access, Inc.: CEO, President, David
Lopez and Global Cash Access Holdings, Inc. Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Data Financial, Inc. – Initial Supplier License
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that Data Financial, Inc.
be granted a Supplier’s License for a term of one year; that the following positions
and individuals be designated as Key Persons of the licensee: President, Vice
President, James A. Holtz and Laura L. Holtz; and that the licensee be authorized
to supply the following products to Illinois licensees: redemption kiosks, table game
layouts, dice and cards. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPROVAL AND DENIALS –
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved that the Board find suitable and
approve 48 applications for Level 2 Occupational Licenses and 143 applications for
Level 3 Occupational Licenses. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
•

Alisha J. Dengler
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Vander Weele moved that the Board issue a
Disciplinary Complaint to revoke the Occupational License of Alisha J. Dengler due
to her conduct of theft at Jumer’s Casino, said action to take effect 21 days from the
date of service of the Complaint unless she files an Answer within that time period.

3

 Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
At 10:43 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 