 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Criminal Justice Committee

Wednesday, July 29, 2015 12:00 PM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,

Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.

1. Mary Harts?eld, Warriors on the Watch Inc.
2. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

COMMITTEE MINUTES

15-4636
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/30/2015

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

15-3813
Sponsored by: JESUS G. GARCIA, Cook County Board Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDING THE COOK COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE OFFICIAL SEAL
OF COOK COUNTY TO PROHIBIT FRAUDULENT AND DECEPTIVE USE BY PRIVATE PERSONS
AND ENTITIES

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a Home Rule Unit of Government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6; and,

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, the County of Cook may exercise any power and perform any
function relating to its government and affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection of the public
health, safety, morals and welfare; and,

WHEREAS, the of?cial seal of Cook County (?County Seal?) is an important symbol of the government of
Cook County which is used by Cook County government of?cials, departments and agencies to convey, and does
convey, the of?cial imprimatur of the Cook County government; and

WHEREAS, when members of the public see the County Sea] on any communication or object, they are likely
to believe, and do reasonably believe, that the person or entity displaying the County Seal is a Cook County
government of?cial, department or agency, and that the communication or object has been approved by a Cook
County government of?cial, department or agency; and thus the display of the County Seal communicates of?cial
approval by Cook County government and an association with of?cial Cook County government business; and

WHEREAS, from time to time, private persons or entities have displayed the County Seal on various
communications and objects with the intent and/or the effect of misleading and confusing members of the public
into believing that the private person or entity is acting as a representative of the Cook County government and/or
acting on of?cial Cook County business; and

WHEREAS, examples of potential fraudulent misuse of the County Seal include, but are not limited to, the use
of the County Sea] on letters from non-government entities offering property tax appeal assistance under the ruse
of gathering sensitive personal ?nancial information and the use of the County Sea] by private persons to gain
entry to the residences and workplaces of people living and doing business in Cook County under the false
pretense of being Cook County government of?cials or employees; and

WHEREAS, such fraudulent use of the County Seal puts the most vulnerable members of the public at ?nancial
and physical risk and creates a public safety danger;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part I General
Ordinances, Chapter 2 - Administration, Article I - In General, Section 2-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:

Sec. 2 1. Of?cial Seal.

Establishment and use. The seal hereinafter described, and used with or without colors, shall be and is hereby
established, created and declared to be the of?cial seal of the County. For general use, the plain impression on white
containing the ?gures and symbols hereinafter described shall be suf?cient.

Description. The seal shall be circular having within its center an outline of the map of the County across which

is a scroll bearing the legend ?January, 1831? marking the time the County was created by the State legislature; in

the lower left portion of the design there appears an illustration of a ship sailing on Lake Michigan, symbolic of the
Page 2 of 8

County?s geographical location, shipping port and, in a broad sense, all forms of transportation; in the upper right
portion there appears a group of diversi?ed buildings, symbolical of government, schools, churches, ?ne arts,
dwellings, business and industry; with the entire design being encircled by a border upon which appears the printed
words ?Seal of Cook County, Illinois.?

(0) Coloration. The colors of the of?cial seal shall be as follows:

(1) The outline map of the County, occupying the central portion of the design, shall be in gold, with
its border a thin black line;

(2) The scroll across the face of the map shall be white, bordered by a thin black line, the date within
the scroll - ?January, 1831? - shall be lettered in maroon;

(3) The sky shall be a light blue, the lake a turquoise green;
(4) The ship shall be in maroon, except for the superstructure, which is white;
(5) The group of diversi?ed buildings shall be maroon;

(6) The broad circular border, encompassing the group of symbols shall be in cobalt (blue), edged on
both the inner and outer sides with a ?ne line of gold;

(7) The lettering - ?Seal of Cook County, Illinois? - which appears on the cobalt border, shall be in
gold.

No person. as de?ned by til-3 of 1.1.115 Chapter of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, shall Lise or display any
likely to convey. the false impression ofendorsement. sponsorship or approval by the government of Cook County
or by any of?cial. department. agency or instrumentalitv thereof. Any person this provision shall be
ordered to cease and desist in such use and shall be subiect to a ?ne as set forth by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in Chapter 32. section 32?1 ol'this Code. The determination as to the imposition of penalties under
this Section shall be determined in the Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2.
Article IX, of thewCook County Code of Ordinances. Nothing herein prohibits a duly authorized Cook County
official, or a person acting under his or her direction. from using or displaying any image or likeness of the seal
described in this section.

 

The of?cial seal shall be kept in the custody of the County Clerk to be used by the County Clerk
when required.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
that Part I General Ordinances, Chapter 32 - Fees, Sec. 32?1-Fee Schedule, Chapter 2-Administration,
2.1, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

lfany person violates this provision. in addition to such remedies, the penalties shall be:
1. For a first violation. such person shall be subicct to a line of not less than $50 nor_more than
$250;
2. For any subseguenli violation. such person shall hesubject to a?ge less than $250 or nor
more than $500.00.

 

 

 

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 6/10/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee
Legislative History: 6/30/15 Criminal Justice Committee recommended for deferral
Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners deferred

Page 3 of 8

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE ID 15-3813
Sponsored by: JESUS G. GARCIA, Cook County Board Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDING THE COOK COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE OFFICIAL SEAL
OF COOK COUNTY TO PROHIBIT FRAUDULENT AND DECEPTIVE USE BY PRIVATE
PERSONS AND ENTITIES

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a Home Rule Unit of Government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois
Constitution, Article VII, Section 6; and,

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, the County of Cook may exercise any power and perform
any function relating to its government and affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals and welfare; and,

WHEREAS, the of?cial seal of Cook County (?County Seal?) is an important symbol of the government
of Cook County which is used by Cook County government of?cials, departments and agencies to convey,
and does convey, the of?cial imprimatur of the Cook County government; and

WHEREAS, when members of the public see the County Seal on any communication or object, they are
likely to believe, and do reasonably believe, that the person or entity displaying the County Seal is a Cook
County government of?cial, department or agency, and that the communication or object has been
approved by a Cook County government of?cial, department or agency; and thus the display of the
County Seal communicates of?cial approval by Cook County government and an association with of?cial
Cook County government business; and

WHEREAS, from time to time, private persons or entities have displayed the County Seal on various
communications and objects with the intent and/or the effect of misleading and confusing members of the
public into believing that the private person or entity is acting as a representative of the Cook County
government and/or acting on of?cial Cook County business; and

WHEREAS, examples of potential fraudulent misuse of the County Seal include, but are not limited to,
the use of the County Seal on letters from non-government entities offering property tax appeal assistance
under the ruse of gathering sensitive personal ?nancial information and the use of the County Seal by
private persons to gain entry to the residences and workplaces of people living and doing business in Cook
County under the false pretense of being Cook County government of?cials or employees; and

WHEREAS, such fraudulent use of the County Seal puts the most vulnerable members of the public at
?nancial and physical risk and creates a public safety danger;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part I
General Ordinances, Chapter 2 Administration, Article I In General, Section 2?1 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:

Page 4 of 8

Sec. 2-1. Of?cial Seal.





Establishment and use. The seal hereinafter described, and used with or without colors, shall be
and is hereby established, created and declared to be the of?cial seal of the County. For general
use, the plain impression on white containing the ?gures and symbols hereinafter described shall
be suf?cient._

Description. The seal shall be circular having within its center an outline of the map of the County
across which is a scroll bearing the legend ?January, 1831? marking the time the County was
created by the State legislature; in the lower left portion of the design there appears an illustration
of a ship sailing on Lake Michigan, symbolic of the County?s geographical location, shipping port
and, in a broad sense, all forms of transportation; in the upper right portion there appears a group of
diversi?ed buildings, symbolical of government, schools, churches, ?ne arts, dwellings, business
and industry; with the entire design being encircled by a border upon which appears the printed
words ?Seal of Cook County, Illinois.?

(0) Coloration. The colors of the of?cial seal shall be as follows:



The outline map of the County, occupying the central portion of the design, shall be in gold, with

its border a thin black line;

(2) The scroll across the face of the map shall be white, bordered by a thin black line, the date within

the scroll ?January, 1831? - shall be lettered in maroon;

(3) The sky shall be a light blue, the lake a turquoise green;

(4) The ship shall be in maroon, except for the superstructure, which is white;

(5) The group of diversi?ed buildings shall be maroon;

(6) The broad circular border, encompassing the group of symbols shall be in cobalt (blue), edged on

both the inner and outer sides with a ?ne line of gold;

(7) The lettering ?Seal of Cook County, Illinois? - which appears on the cobalt border, shall be in

gold.

Private use of seal. No person, as de?ned by Chapter 1. Section1-3 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances, shall fraudulently forge. deface. corrupt, or counterfeit the seal of the County. nor
shall any person. other than a duly authorized public of?cial make use of said seal for private
purposes. Nothing herein prohibits a duly authorized Cook County of?cial. or a person acting
under his or her direction, from using or displaying any image or likeness of the seal described in
this Section 2-1.

Any person alleged by the Of?ce ofthe Cook County Clerk or the Cook County Sheriff to have
violated Section 2-1(d) shall be given a Notice of Violation. The determination as to a violation of
this section and the imposition of penalties under this Section shall be determined in the Cook
County Department ol? Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX. of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances. Any person violating this section shall be ?ned not less than
$250.00 nor more than $500.00 for the ?rst offense. An Order of violation shall be also be
considered an Order to cease and desist. "l'l'lc Countv Clerk. the. Sheriff. the Department of
Administrative Hearings. and any affected agency shall have the right to issue a cease and desist
Order. Any subsequent violation shall be subiect to a ?ne of not less than $500.00 nor more than
$1000.00. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said
person shall continue any such violation. or permit any such violation to exist after noti?cation

Page 5 of 8

thereof. In addition, possession or unauthorized use of more than one item or article of forgery-
delacemenl. corruption. or counterfeuina ol'tlie seal of the County. shall be subiect to treatment as
a separate and distinct offense. Each and every such item or article. in whatever form. including
but not limited to physical. electronic. compu[er-generated. and digital. and instrumentalities used
in the dissemination ol?such item or article, shall be subject to forfeiture or con?scation.

(dag) Custody. The of?cial seal shall be kept in the custody of the County Clerk to be used by the County
Clerk when required. .

Effective date: These amendments shall be in effect on September 1, 2015.

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

15-4167
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 54, Article Division 4, Section 54-214(a)

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 54, 
PERMITS AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS, ARTICLE WEAPONS
DIVISION 4, BLAIR HOLT ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN, SECTION 54-214(a) of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 54?214. - Violation. Penalty.

Any person found in Violation of this division shall be ?ned not less than and not more
than and may be sentenced for a term not to exceed more than siaemeaths one (1) year?s
imprisonment. Any subsequent violation of this division shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $5,000700
$10,000.00 and not more than and may be sentenced for a term not to exceed more than
set?months one (1) year?s imprisonment.

Page 6 of 8

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE ID 15-4167

Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

Chapter 54, Article Division 4, Section 54-214(a)

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 54, PERMITS
AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS, ARTICLE WEAPONS 
DIVISION 4, BLAIR HOLT ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN, SECTION 54-214(a) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 54-214. - Violation. Penalty

Any person found in violation of this division shall be ?ned not less than $700090 $5,000.00 and not
more than $5,000700 $10,000.00 and may be sentenced for a term not to exceed more than six months
imprisonment. Any subsequent violation of this division shall be punishable by a ?ne of not less than
$900700 $10,000.00 and not more than $I-0g000700 $15,000.00 and may be sentenced for a term not to
exceed more than six months imprisonment.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, to suspend the rules. The
motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance

Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 7 of 8

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley,
Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

 

 

Absent: Commissioners Suffredin and Tobolski (2)
Respectfully submitted,

92-13% ?332., ZS 2223?"
Chairn?i??u Secretary

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 8 of 8

