Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, May 9, 2017

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-0201
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/25/2016
16-0177
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”)
Other Part(ies): Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (“MWRD”) and the City
of Palos Heights (“the City”)

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 9, 2017

Request: Authorize the Preserves to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with MWRD and the
City to construct, operate and maintain modifications to the existing Arrowhead Lake, dam embankment,
and paved Bike Trail.
Goods or Services: MWRD will construct the modifications at its sole cost and expense and maintain
the vegetative improvements for three years. The City, at its sole cost and expense, will maintain the
flood control improvements built as part of the project. The Preserves will maintain the vegetative
improvements and path improvements.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: The agreement becomes effective on the date the last signature is affixed thereto
and remains in effect for a continuous term.
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 17
Summary:
MWRD proposes to increase the temporary storm water storage capacity of Arrowhead
Lake by raising the existing paved trail at two locations. The project will raise the existing dam
embankment and spillway and place riprap and concrete spillway protection on the embankment.
Approximately 250 feet of embankment will be restored with native plantings to stabilize the
embankment. Trail flooding will be reduced and a new trail access to 131st Street will be constructed.
Legislative History: 4/12/16 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

17-0125
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to Wide Open West d/b/a WOW!, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain
four thousand three hundred (4,300) linear feet of aerial fiber optic line on an existing ComEd utility
pole line approximately three hundred and fifty (350) feet north of Lawrence Avenue from Des Plaines
River Road to East River Road in the Catherine Chevalier Woods Forest Preserve. The proposed fiber
optic line will connect Verizon Wireless cellular towers for public telecommunication purposes. The
existing ComEd utility pole line was granted by License 713 in 1967 and last renewed in 2017 for a ten
(10) year term.
Term: Ten (10) years, 4/11/2017 - 4/10/2027
License Fee:

$106,611.57

Page 2 of 5

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 9, 2017

License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,600.00
Total: $111,211.57 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: 64,500 square feet, or 1.48 acres
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have submitted a report
and favorable recommendation as backup.
District(s): 9
Legislative History: 4/11/17 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

17-0126
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to the Village of Riverside, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain thirty
seven (37) linear feet of 24-inch storm sewer and outfall structure to the Des Plaines River in the Salt
Creek Preserves, between First Avenue and the Des Plaines River at the BNSF Railroad, between Ogden
and 31st Street. The proposed sewer is part of a project to improve water quality in the Des Plaines River
watershed by separating stormwater runoff from the existing combined sewer, which will relieve
flooding and reduce combined sewer overflow discharge into the Forest Preserve and the river.
Term: Continuous
License Fee: $4,100.00
License Application Fee: $5,500.00
YELAR Fee: $6,150.00

Page 3 of 5

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 9, 2017

Total: $15,750.00 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: $285.53
The area of the License is: 900 square feet or 0.02 acres
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have submitted a report
and favorable recommendation as backup.
District(s): 17
Legislative History: 4/11/17 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

17-0134
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning & Development
Other Part(ies): Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (“MWRD”)
Request: Authorization to enter into an
reconstruction and maintenance of the Lyons Levee

Intergovernmental

Agreement

with

MWRD

for

the

Goods or Services: Grant of permanent and temporary easements and waiver of tree mitigation fees to
allow MWRD to improve, raise, and maintain the Lyons Levee from Joliet Road downstream in Ottawa
Trail Woods to south of 47th Street along the west edge of the Chicago Portage National Historic Site
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Continuous
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 16

Page 4 of 5

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

May 9, 2017

Summary: MWRD, under an agreement with the United States Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) for
the design and construction, proposes to repair, rehabilitate, and replace the Lyons Levee to protect
against a 100-year flood event. In April 2013, floodwater from the Des Plaines River overtopped the
Lyons Levee and flooded a portion of the Village of Forest View. The FPCC acquired the property
containing the Lyons Levee along the Des Plaines River from MWRD in 1950. The conveyance deed
provided that the grantee (the FPCC) would continue to maintain the existing or new levees. The
proposed 11.21 acre permanent easements and 1.05 acre temporary easement will provide access and
right of entry to MWRD and the Corps for the construction, operation and maintenance of the levee. The
proposed agreement is subject to final review and approval by the FPCC’s Legal Department.
Legislative History: 4/11/17 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moody
Vice-Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 5 of 5

 