      
      
 
 

 

WW

  
 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners

Report of the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, February 18, 2014 Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE:
Present: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Gainer, Schneider
and Suffredin (5)
Absent: Commissioners Collins and Tobolski (2)
Also Present: Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes, Sims and Steele;

Dennis A. White Chief Counsel, Forest Preserve District
Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to enter into Executive
Session. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Fritchey, moved to return to Regular
Session. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the Forest Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce to Approve the matter of Susan
Senzel v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the Forest Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce to Approve the matter of Dwight
Winkowski v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the Forest Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce to Approve the matter of Sharon
Capparelli v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the Forest Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce to Approve the matter of
Thaddeus Smith v. Forest Preserve District of Cook County. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Concur with the Forest
Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce to Approve the invoices submitted for legal services, from
January 1, 2014 through January 31, 2014 by Brothers Thompson, PC for various labor related
issues. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Concur with the Forest
Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce, to Approve the invoices submitted for legal services, from
December 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 by Greene and Letts for various labor related issues.
The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Concur with the Forest
Preserve District Attorney?s Of?ce, to Approve the invoices submitted for legal services, from
December 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 by Schuyler, Roche, Crisham for various labor
related issues. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT

Vice Chairman Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Adjourn. The motion
carried unanimously and the meeting was Adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,

S?gretary

 

 

Chairman

*An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

Page 2 of 2

