MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
July 16, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on July 16, 2002 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory Jones and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, Tobias Barry, and Violet Clark.
Chairman Jones convened the July 16, 2002 Regular Meeting at 9:33 A.M. in the 3 rd floor
Board Conference Room. Member Higginbottom moved that pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the
Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:00 P.M.

 Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jones announced that the items listed on the agenda pertaining to the Emerald
Casino, Inc. settlement would not be discussed at today’s (July 16, 2002) meeting.
Public Commentary
Rev. Tom Grey, Executive Director, National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, was
present to discuss the moral issues of gambling and gambling as a dangerous product. Mr.
Grey stated that the Board could prevent some of the effects that gambling has on people.
Mr. Grey asked that the Board apply the same amount of consideration to the pain that the
product brings as the Board has done to making the product profitable. Mr. Grey stated that
to do less is to not serve the citizens of the State of Illinois. Mr. Grey provided the Board
with a handout that provided figures reflecting Grand Victoria Casino’s profit, which was
based on the amount of money Grand Victoria gave to Kane County and to the Grand
Victoria Foundation. Mr. Grey asked that the Board provide the legislature with input
regarding the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board Rules so that the legislature could
make informed decisions based on what the Act and Rules truly provide. Mr. Grey stated
that based on the calculated profits on the hand out that Mr. Grey provided to the Board, if
the casinos come before the Board complaining of increased taxes, and requesting more
gaming positions, the Board should “milk” the owners just like the owners do the gamblers
in the State of Illinois.
Jack Roeser, President, Family Taxpayers Network, was present to discuss the Board’s
responsibility for disclosing information regarding the casino industry. Mr. Roeser read a
prepared statement to the Board regarding the Board’s refusal to disclose information
regarding the casino industry. The statement read that the citizens of Illinois have witnessed
a Board that has refused to disclose information about the casino industry in this State that,
by law, they are required to disclose. The statement read that the present nine casinos have
been allowed to operate without public disclosure of their finances. The statement read that
there has been neither public disclosure nor public audit. The statement read that the Board
has allowed these casinos to profit from a State-conferred monopoly far beyond any normal
profit. The statement read that the Illinois Gaming Board, a five-member panel of George
Ryan appointees, has conducted its affairs in such a manner as to warrant investigation by the
United States District Attorney or the Illinois Attorney General. The statement read that as it
stands today, this Board is failing to protect the people of Illinois from the pernicious
influence of powerful gambling interests. The statement read that the Attorney General must
intervene, stop this settlement (the Emerald Casino Settlement), and proceed with a fullblown investigation of the Illinois Gaming Board.

2

 Anita Bedell, Executive Director, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems,
was present to discuss Casino Rock Island and its request to relocate its site. Ms. Bedell
provided the Board with background information regarding Casino Rock Island’s previous
attempt to relocate its site. Ms. Bedell stated that in 1999, legislators from Rock Island
pleaded with their colleagues on the House and Senate floor to pass SB 1017, which included
dockside gambling. Ms. Bedell stated that a few months after SB 1017 was signed into law,
Casino Rock Island requested a site relocation off of the Mississippi River. Ms. Bedell
stated that the Illinois Gaming Board asked the Attorney General for an opinion prior to
voting on the matter. Ms. Bedell stated that on May 30, 2001, the Attorney General issued
an opinion stating that the Illinois Gaming Board does not have the authority to permit the
relocation of a riverboat within a community. Ms. Bedell stated that the Board voted to
adopt the Attorney General’s opinion and rejected Casino Rock Island’s relocation proposal.
Ms. Bedell stated that the Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems
(ILCAAAP) and individuals throughout the State asked Governor Ryan to amendatorily veto
the riverboat gambling language out of the budget implementation bill; however, the
Governor signed House Bill 5686 into law on June 28, 2002. Ms. Bedell stated that Bill
5686 might violate the single subject legislation, and therefore, make Bill 5686
unconstitutional. Ms. Bedell stated that while HB 5686 stated where riverboats were allowed
to locate, it did not explicitly authorize any boat to move to a new port or location. Ms.
Bedell stated that the wording in the Riverboat Gambling Act still states that “three licenses
shall be on the Mississippi River.” Ms. Bedell stated that the Attorney General’s opinion in
May, 2001 stated “Even assuming, for purposes of discussion, that the Board could permit
the Casino Rock Island to relocate its dock from one riverfront site within the City of Rock
Island to another, the relocation of the riverboat to an artificially created basin, which is
physically separated from the Mississippi River would not be consistent with the statutory
requirement that the boat operate on the Mississippi River.” Ms. Bedell asked that the Board
abide by the Attorney General’s opinion and reject Casino Rock Island’s request to relocate.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – SITE RELOCATION – Donna More, Attorney, and Ron
Wicks, President, were present on behalf of Casino Rock Island seeking initial consideration
of a request to relocate Casino Rock Island’s gaming operation. Ms. More stated that she
was before the Board last year on behalf of Casino Rock Island, and she happens to disagree
with the Attorney General’s opinion. Ms. More stated that she believes that the Board had
the authority to grant the request to relocate last year. Ms. More stated that Casino Rock
Island is seeking initial consideration to relocate its gaming operation approximately three
miles away from its current site. Ms. More stated that Casino Rock Island is asking the
Board to consider this request now due to the recent amendments to the Riverboat Gambling
Act, specifically section 7(e), which now permits a gaming operation to be located within
five miles of the municipality that boarders on the Mississippi River and that currently has an
operating riverboat casino. Ms. More stated that given the wording of the legislation, Casino
Rock Island meets the requirements of the Act as it now reads. Ms. More stated that Casino
Rock Island is seeking initial consideration and hopefully approval for the site because there
3

 are site improvements that Casino Rock Island would like to make on the site before it begins
construction, which would include obtaining all of the necessary permits and submitting it to
the Board for its review and approval. Ms. More stated that during the time of the site
improvement, Casino Rock Island anticipates to be back before the Board for specific project
approval.
Ron Wicks provided the Board with a slide presentation that included an aerial view of the
current location, a map of location proximity, an aerial view of the proposed location, traffic
counts and site facts.
Member Higginbottom asked what negative impact the relocation would have on the
downtown Rock Island area since Casino Rock Island was the catalyst for the redevelopment of the area. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island has asked Rock Island
and the members of the district about negative impacts, and they believe that because the
downtown area has been “alive” for ten years, that downtown could self-sustain. Mr. Wicks
stated that the relocation would help expand the downtown area of Rock Island due to the
fact that Casino Rock Island is giving up some of the riverfront property that is very
valuable. Ms. More stated that the city is very supportive of the relocation because it would
allow room for development in the city’s southwest area.
Chairman Jones asked if the proposed location is in an unincorporated area and if annexation
would be necessary. Mr. Wicks stated that the casino is seeking annexation with the City of
Rock Island. Mr. Wicks stated that the city indicated that they would approve the annexation
as well as the proper zoning that is required. Chairman Jones asked what the time frame
would be for that process. Mr. Wicks stated that an annexation process is currently taking
place from the current owners to move to another location, which is adjoining the proposed
site. Mr. Wicks stated that the annexation process is already in the works and estimated that
the process would take 60 to 90 days. Ms. More stated that she would find out a more
accurate timetable for the annexation process and provide it to staff and the Board.
Chairman Jones stated that staff has received correspondences regarding the proposed new
site. Chairman Jones stated that various individuals have expressed environmental concerns,
and he asked if there are wetlands at the proposed site. Chairman Jones asked if anything has
been done to address environmental issues. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island has
hired an engineering firm to perform an environmental impact study. Mr. Wicks referred
back to the slide presentation and pointed out that the wetlands adjoin the proposed site;
however, it is separate from Casino Rock Island’s property.
Chairman Jones asked for the timeframe for the environmental impact study. Chairman
Jones stated that one of the reactions of the Board to Casino Rock Island’s request is that it is
premature in light of the things that need to take place before the relocation, such as the
annexation, environmental impact study and other preparations. Ms. More stated that she
would submit information to Staff regarding the timeframe for the environmental impact
study.

4

 Chairman Jones questioned the constitutionality of the relocation and asked if legislation
authorizes the casino to relocate. Ms. More stated that she would submit something to Staff
regarding the constitutionality of the legislation.
Member Higginbottom asked what the average driving time was from the existing location to
the proposed location. Mr. Wicks stated that it was approximately three to five minutes. Mr.
Wicks stated that the speed limit along the route is a 65mph, except for the interchange
located near the proposed site, which is 55mph. Member Higginbottom asked if many of
Casino Rock Island’s customers utilize the downtown facilities, such as restaurants and other
retail establishments that have been open over the last ten years. Mr. Wicks stated that
Casino Rock Island promotes the use of downtown facilities and will continue to do so. Mr.
Wicks stated that many of the restaurants accept Casino Rock Island’s redemption cards or
Player’s-Club points, for services.
Chairman Jones asked if there was any concern from the downtown merchants that the
relocation would hurt their business. Mr. Wicks stated that the downtown area is very
vibrant on its own. Mr. Wicks stated that he has not heard anything from the merchants
objecting to the relocation.
Member Rogal questioned the amount of money that the relocation would cost. Mr. Wicks
stated that the total cost would be approximately $3 million dollars. Member Rogal asked
Mark Ostrowski, Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, and Jeannette Tamayo, Chief Legal Counsel,
if Casino Rock Island would need approval from the Board to spend that amount of money.
Mr. Ostrowski stated that Casino Rock Island would need approval from the Board to spend
that amount of money. Ms. Tamayo stated that any material changes may require either prior
notice or prior approval by the Board. Ms. Tamayo stated that Casino Rock Island’s request
certainly constitutes a material change.
Member Rogal asked what was the timeframe on site development verses the timeframe on
going ahead with the construction. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock Island’s preliminary
thoughts are to have the site ready for site development by the end of the year. Mr. Wicks
stated that Casino Rock Island anticipates a groundbreaking for the development by the first
of the year, depending on the weather and approval of finances. Ms. More stated that Casino
Rock Island would submit the necessary documents over the course of the next two months,
and once Casino Rock Island gained site approval, it would be back before the Board at the
end of the year, or at the January 2003 Regular Board meeting, to request project approval.
Ms. More stated that as the project progresses, Casino Rock Island would be back a number
of different times to update the Board on the project.
Member Rogal asked how many additional jobs are expected as a result of this project. Mr.
Wicks stated that approximately 250 jobs would be created. Member Rogal asked what
would the cost be for the construction. Mr. Wicks stated that phase one of the construction
would cost $60 million dollars and phase two would cost $20 million dollars. Mr. Wicks
stated that phase two would be a hotel. Member Rogal asked what additional taxes are

5

 expected to be generated for the State and Rock Island. Mr. Wicks stated that he believes
that Casino Rock Island projected $17 million dollars in taxes per year.
Member Clark asked Mr. Wicks about a particular building located near the site.
Specifically, Member Clark asked what the building’s current use was. Mr. Wicks stated
that the building in question is a nursing home and healthcare facility.
Administrator Parenti asked if Casino Rock Island’s taxes were $3 million last year. Mr.
Wicks stated that they were. Member Higginbottom asked why Casino Rock Island feels
that it would have such a significant increase in taxes. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock
Island feels that it would have a better product to offer. Mr. Wicks stated that Casino Rock
Island’s current product is antiquated by today’s standards.
Administrator Parenti asked that Ms. More submit information to Staff regarding the
constitutionality of House Bill 5686. Ms. More stated that she would provide the
information.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – LICENSE RENEWAL – James Butler, General Counsel of
Argosy Gaming Company, was present on behalf of Empress Casino, Joliet, to request
approval for its license renewal. Mr. Butler stated that Empress was present before the
Board last month during the Regular Board meeting and made a formal presentation. Mr.
Butler stated that during the past month Empress has met with members of the Staff and has
answered all of Staff’s questions. Mr. Butler stated that at last month’s (June) meeting,
Member Rogal asked Empress if they would provide information to the Board that reflects
how Empress determined that their $75 million dollar proposed barge project no longer made
economic sense. Dale Black, Chief Financial Officer, was present and provided the Board
with a presentation that demonstrated how Empress arrived at their decision that the $75
million dollar project no longer made economic sense. Member Rogal stated that he
requested Empress to submit material to the Board in advance, so the Board could review the
material and compare it to other information. Member Rogal stated that because he did not
have an opportunity to look at the figures prior to the meeting and compare them to the
information that the Board has, he would abstain from the vote. Mr. Black stated that
Empress had provided some of the information ahead of time to Staff and had worked with
Staff to be prepared for the presentation.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve the Owner's License of the Empress Casino Joliet
Corporation for a term of 4 years expiring in July 2006.
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom further
moved that the Board certify the following entity, positions and persons as Key Persons
of the Empress Casino Joliet Corporation:
1. Argosy Gaming Company;
2. President and Chief Executive Officer;
6

 3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Vice President of Internal Audit;
Regional VP, Operations North;
William F. Cellini;
Craig D. Robinson;
James B. Perry;
James A. Gulbrandsen; and
Brenda Bauer.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. Member Rogal abstained.
GRAND VICTORIA CASINO – RANDALL C. ROBERTS, GENERAL MANAGER –
LEVEL ONE – Randall C. Roberts was present to request approval as an Occupational
Licensee, Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Randall C. Roberts as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Elgin
Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino. Member Barry seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
EMERALD CASINO, INC. – PROPOSED CREDIT AGREEMENT – Barry Montgomery,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Emerald Casino, Inc. to request approval for Emerald’s
proposed credit agreement. Administrator Parenti noted that Rosemont, as a debtor, has
sought to place Emerald in an involuntary bankruptcy. Administrator Parenti stated that staff
recommends approval of the proposed credit agreement.

Based on the staff’s review and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board
approve Emerald Casino, Inc.’s proposed unassignable $5 million Credit Agreement
between Emerald Casino, Inc. and Donald F. Flynn and to be repaid at 5.75 % within
three years. Member Rogal further moved that the Board delegate to the Administrator,
under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2), final approval of the transaction upon execution of
the appropriate documents. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that the Board
approve 38 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 96 applications for an
Occupational License Level 3. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote.

7

 Board Member Comments
Administrator Parenti announced that the August 13, 2002 Regular Board meeting would be
canceled and that the September 10, 2002 Regular Board meeting would be re-scheduled to
September 4, 2002.
Administrator Parenti stated that all of the items on the agenda pertaining to Emerald that
were not discussed have been tabled.
Chairman Jones stated that if there is any action on Emerald it would be by a Special
meeting.
At 3:00 P.M., Member Higginbottom moved that Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (11)
and (14) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, the
Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the following subject matters:
1. Litigation involving Emerald Casino, Inc.;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 5:30 P.M. Member Rogal made a motion to reconvene into Open Session. Member
Barry second the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board adjourned at 5:32 P.M.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

8

 