Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Zoning and Building Committee
Wednesday, March 2, 2016

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an
item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
16-1843
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/10/2016
VARIATIONS
16-1733
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 15-57
Township: Northfield
County District: 14
Property Address: 210 Cottonwood Road, Northbrook, Illinois.
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.46 acre and is generally located on
the northwest corner of Cottonwood Road and Walnut Circle.
Owner: JB Real Estate Fund LLC Series 210, 626 W. Randolph Street, Suite 1, Chicago, Illinois.

 Agent/Attorney: John Pikarski Jr., 55 W. Monroe Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, Illinois.
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance in the R-4 Single Family Residence to: (1) increase the floor area
ratio (FAR) from the maximum allowed 0.25 to an existing 0.32 0.31; (2) reduce the corner side yard setback
from the minimum requirement of 25’ to an existing 17’ and (23) reduce the rear yard setback from the minimum
required 50’ to an existing 36’ 46.56. Variance is sought in order to bring exiting lot conditions into compliance
and allow for the renovation of an existing single family residential dwelling.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be denied.
Conditions: Not Applicable
Objectors: Wally Kehr, Northfield Township Road District, Road District Foreman Sanitary Field Supervisor,
1928 Lehigh Avenue, Glenview, Illinois, presented his report of the Glenbrook Countryside Subdivision.
Daniel Creaney Company, Civil Engineering Consultants, President, 450 Skokie Boulevard, Northbrook,
Illinois.
Kenneth Smith, Glenbrook Countryside Property Owners Association, President, 1802 Walnut Circle,
Northbrook, Illinois, submitted a Notarized Petition of objectors/neighbors that the Subject Property does not
conform to the Glenbrook Countryside Covenants and the Cook County Zoning Requirements, including
setbacks and Floor Area Ratio.
Kenneth Smith, Glenbrook Countryside Property Owners Association, President, 1802 Walnut Circle,
Northbrook, Illinois, submitted a Notarized Petition of objectors/neighbors that the Subject Property does not
conform to the Glenbrook Countryside setbacks and Floor Area Ratio.
Louise Ristow, neighbor, 1910 Walnut Circle, Northbrook, Illinois stated that the construction was done without
proper permits and proper inspections. She stated that approval of these requests will set precedence against the
Glenbrook Countryside Property Owners Association and Glenbrook Countryside Covenants.
Sal Gaeta, neighbor, 2033 Walnut Circle, Northbrook, Illinois, Member of Homeowners Association and
Member of Subcommittee Covenants of Building and Zoning Compliance Committee. He stated that approval
of these requests will set precedence against the Glenbrook Countryside Property Owners Association and
Glenbrook Countryside Covenants.
Michael Gerhardth, 91 & W. Rosco, Chicago, Illinois, appeared on behalf of Glenbrook Countryside Property
Owners Association and presented Property Cost Data Comparisons at Glenbrook Countryside.
Kevin Foote, neighbor, 1834 Walnut Circle, Northbrook, Illinois appeared on behalf of Glenbrook Countryside
Property Owners Association and is concerned of the grading and flooding.
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
12/16/15 and 02/03/16
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 02/03/16
County Board extension granted: N/A

Page 2 of 13

 16-1734
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-01
Township: Maine
County District: 9
Property Address: 9533 W. Oak Place, Des Plaines, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.51 acres located on the south side of
Oak Place and approximately 200 feet west of Lyman Avenue.
Owner: Dorota Czaicka, 9533 W. Oak Place, Des Plaines, Illinois.
Agent/Attorney: Dorota Czaicka, 9533 W. Oak Place, Des Plaines, Illinois.
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 15 feet to an existing 9.15 feet. Variance is sought to construct a breezeway to join the existing
principal and accessory structures.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation that the application be approved.
Conditions: None
Objectors: None
History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/3/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 2/3/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
16-1735
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-03
Township: Leyden
County District: 16
Property Address: 10429 W. Lyndale Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois.
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.19 acres located on the south side of
Page 3 of 13

 Lyndale Avenue and approximately 705 feet west of Mannheim Road.
Owner: Dawid Batko, 10429 W. Lyndale Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois.
Agent/Attorney: Mark Orwat, 5860 W. Irving Park Road, Chicago, Illinois.
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to: (1) reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 10 feet to an existing 0 feet, (2) reduce the left interior side yard setback from the minimum required 10
feet to an existing 1.3 feet and (3) reduce the rear yard setback from the minimum required 5 feet to an existing 0
feet. Variance is sought to bring existing lot conditions into compliance.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None
Objectors:

None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/3/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 2/3/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
16-1737
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Variation V 16-04
Township: Leyden
County District: 16
Property Address: 10145 West Fullerton, Melrose Park, Illinois
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of approximately 0.14 acres located on the southeast
corner of Fullerton Avenue and Dora Street.
Owner: Kathryn Rocus, 10145 West Fullerton, Melrose Park, Illinois
Agent/Attorney: None
Current Zoning: R-5 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a variance to reduce the right interior side yard setback from the minimum
required 10 feet to a proposed 4.46 feet. Variance is sought to expand an existing elevated deck and stairs.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is that the application be granted.
Conditions: None

Page 4 of 13

 Objectors:

None

History:
Zoning Board Hearing:
2/3/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 2/3/2016
County Board extension granted: N/A
*******************************
16-1664
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, LUIS ARROYO JR, LARRY
SUFFREDIN, JERRY BUTLER, SEAN M. MORRISON, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CREATION OF CRANE OPERATORS LICENSE and BOARD OF CRANE OPERATOR
EXAMINERS
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and
WHEREAS, the licensing of crane operators is a matter of public safety pertaining to the government and affairs
of the County; and
WHEREAS, a Cook County Board of Crane Operator Examiners will protect the public health, general welfare
and safety of Cook County citizens; and,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively protect the public health, general welfare
and safety of its citizens the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Crane Operators License
for work performed on construction projects in Cook County; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Board of Commissioners establishes a Board of Crane
Operator Examiners to establish license and permit requirements for individuals operating cranes in the County
of Cook; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Article 3, Chapter 102 of
the Building and Buildings Regulation of the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 151-1 Crane Operation in Cook County.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any crane, as defined in this section, on any construction,
rehabilitation, repair or demolition project undertaken where a permit for such work is required by this Code,
without first having obtained a crane operator’s license. It shall be unlawful to employ any person or to permit
or direct any person on such a project to operate a crane as defined in this chapter unless such person holds a
valid crane operator’s license.
Sec. 151-2 Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following means
ascribed to them in this article, except were the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Page 5 of 13

 Apprentice crane operator means an individual registered in an [apprenticeship and training program
approved by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship] and training to operate a crane under the
direct supervision and responsible control of a crane operator properly licensed under this article.
Approved accredited certifying entity means any organization whose certification program for crane
operators is accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or its equivalent, and that
meets other criteria as may be established by the Building Commissioner. Equivalency to the NCCA
certification program shall be determined by the Building Commissioner.
Board of Crane Operators Examiners or Board means the Board of Crane Operators examiners established
pursuant to Section 152 of the Building Code.
Building Commissioner means the head of the Building Department, as set forth in Section 102-105 of
the Building Code, or the Building Commissioner’s designee. Such designee may include, but is not limited to,
the Chief Construction Equipment Inspector.
Chief Construction Equipment Inspector means the person appointed by the Building Commissioner under
Section 102-105 (1.5) of the Building Code.
Construction equipment inspector means a person designated by the Building Commissioner to enforce
the provisions of this article. A construction equipment inspector shall have the authority to enter any jobsite to
inspect or review jobsite conditions and to stop work when appropriate to ensure that cranes are operate,
maintained, assembled, disassembled, or jumped in a manner necessary or appropriate to protect public safety
and consistent with the permit application required under Section 151 of the Building Code.
Cook County or County means the County of Cook, Illinois.
Crane means any power-operated mechanical hoisting equipment with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of one
ton (2000 pounds) or more that lifts, lowers, rotates or moves a load horizontally or vertically. Such equipment
includes, but is not limited to: (1) Articulating cranes, including knuckle-boom cranes used to deliver material on
to a structure with or without a properly functioning automatic overload prevention device; (2) crawler cranes; (3)
floating cranes; (4) cranes on barges; (5) locomotive cranes; (6) mobile cranes, such as wheel-mounted,
rough-terrain, all-terrain, commercial truck-mounted, and boom truck cranes; (7) multi-purpose machines when
configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load;
(8)
industrial cranes (such as carry deck cranes); (9) service/mechanic trucks with a hoisting device; (10) cranes on
monorails; (11) tower cranes (such as a fixed jib, i.e. “hammerhead boom”), luffing boom and self-erecting; (12)
pedestal cranes; (13) portal cranes; (14) overhead and gantry cranes; (15) derricks; (16) powered window washing
units if used to erect portions of a building; (17) track backhoes if used to erect portions of a structure; (18) rack
and pinion/skips; (19) Chicago booms; (20) hydraulic crawler/hydraulic truck cranes (lattice booms); (21)
drumhoists; (22) variations of the equipment listed in items (1) through (21) of this definition; and (23) any other
equipment that the Building Commissioner, in consultation with the Board, reasonably determines is appropriately
characterized as a crane as set forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the Building Commissioner.
The term “crane” does not include (i) dedicated pile drivers; (ii) straddle cranes; (iii) sideboom cranes; (iv)
elevators; (v) powered window washing units unless the unit is used to erect portions of a building; (vi) skid steers;
(vii) all-terrain forklifts unless the forklift is configured to hoise and lower (by means of a winch or hood) and
horizontally move a suspended load; (viii) mast-climbing work platforms, but is hall include booms attached to
mast-climbing work platforms if the boom has a manufacturer’s rated capacity of one ton (2000 pounds) or more;
(ix) any equipment listed in subsection (c) of 29 CFR 1926.1400 unless such equipment is listed in items (1)
through (23), inclusive, of this definition; (x) variations of the equipment set forth in items (i) through (ix) of this
definition; and (xi) any other equipment that the Building Commissioner, in consultation with the board,
reasonably determines is not appropriately characterized as a crane as set forth in rules and regulations duly
Page 6 of 13

 promulgated by the Building Commissioner.
Department means the Building Department of the County of Cook.
Licensee means any person licensed or required to be licensed under this article.
Practical examination means an examination testing the skills of an applicant for a license under this
article in connection with the physical operation of the specific equipment for which a license is required under
this chapter.
Safety issue(s) means unsafe equipment and/or unsafe working conditions.
Unsafe working conditions means (1) physical or other conflicts between more than one crane on a
jobsite; (2) hoisting or swinging a load over an occupied building or over any walkway, traffic lane or parking
lane that is open for use by pedestrians or vehicular traffic; (3) any safety or operational aid used or required to
be used in connection with the operation of a crane that is not working properly; or (4) any other working
condition that the Building Commissioner determines jeopardizes or threatens to jeopardize the health, safety or
welfare of any crane operator or the general public, as set forth in rules and regulations duly promulgated by the
Building Commissioner.
Written examination means an examination administered in a paper or computer-based format, testing
the knowledge of an applicant for a license under this chapter in connection with the substantive requirements or
applicable codes, operating procedures, and other similar knowledge related to the operation of a crane(s).
Sec. 151-3 Application - Qualification for examination.
(a) An applicant for a crane operator’s license shall file an application with the Building Commissioner on
a form provided by the Building Commissioner and in accordance with reasonable requirement
determined by the Building Commissioner.
(b) To qualify to take the operator’s license examination, the applicant must provide evidence on a form
acceptable to the Building Commissioner that:
(1) The applicant is at least 21 years old;
(2) The applicant has worked as a crane operator for at least 2,000 hours during the preceding
48-month period or that the applicant has completed an apprenticeship program that is
recognized by the board of crane operators examiners;
(3) The applicant has not had a crane operator’s or comparable license suspended or revoked by
the County or any other jurisdiction; provided, however, that upon good cause shown and
after a full investigation, the Building Commissioner may waive this prohibition;
(4) The applicant has no history of substance abuse during the preceding three years or that the
applicant has successfully completed a certified substance abuse rehabilitation program;
(5) The applicant has the present physical ability to safely operate a crane; and
(6) The applicant has the ability to read, write, and speak English at a level that allows effective
communication on the job site.

Page 7 of 13

 All applicants meeting these qualifications shall be allowed to take the crane operator’s license examination
upon payment of the required fee.
(c) In addition to the requirements in subsection (b) of this section, to qualify to take the crane operator’s
license examination after November 9, 2017 or the date applicable to paragraphs (a)(2) and (f) of 29
CFR 1926.147 as set forth in 29 CFR 1926.1427(k)(1), whichever comes later, the applicant shall have a
current and valid certification issued by an approved accredited certifying entity identifying the type(s)
of crane that the applicant is certified to operate.
(d) All applicants meeting the qualifications in this section shall be allowed to take the crane operator’s
license examination upon payment of the required fee.
Sec. 151- 4 Examinations - Administration, regulation, and enforcement.
The Building Commissioner is authorized to adopt reasonable rules and regulations necessary or appropriate
to implement the requirements of this chapter, including but not limited to, the time, manner and content of the
crane operator’s examination. Such rules and regulations shall:
(i) enable the Department to fully assess the competency and fitness of each applicant to operate the
type of crane for which a license under this chapter is being sought
(ii) require the applicant to show or demonstrate an acceptable degree of knowledge of crane operation
and related safety practices. Except as otherwise provided in Section 151-5 the Building
Commissioner shall establish specific examinations for the various types of cranes covered by this
chapter. The board shall assist the Building Commissioner in the administration, regulation, \
and enforcement of the examination and licensing provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 151-5 Examination - Exemptions and Waivers.
The Building Commissioner, in consultation with the Board, may promulgate rules and regulations
waiving or otherwise exemption the applicants for a license under this chapter from such portions of any
examination required under this chapter based on criteria, set forth in such rules and regulations, that the Building
Commissioner determines are consistent with public safety.
Sec. 151-6 License - Issuance.
An applicant who successfully passes the crane operator’s examination or is granted a waiver of the
examination pursuant to Section 151-5 and who otherwise meets the requirement of this chapter, shall be issued a
license by the Building Commissioner upon payment of the required fees.
Sec. 151-7 License - Classification.
The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations creating various classes of the
license required by this chapter, reflecting the different levels of competency of a crane operator.
Sec. 151-8 License - Term - Renewals - Reinstatement Fee.
The crane operator’s license shall be valid for not less than one and not more than five years for the date
of issuance. The license may be renewed (1) upon payment of the renewal fee prior to or within three months of
expiration of a valid operator’s license; and (2) after the date set forth in Section 151-3 of the Building Code
upon proof that the applicant has a current and valid certification issue cy an approved accredited certifying
entity identifying the types(s) of crane that the applicant is certified to operate; provided, however, that this item
(2) shall not apply if no national certification exists for specific machines the operation of which requires a
license under this chapter. Expired licenses may be reinstated within three years of expiration upon payment of
Page 8 of 13

 a $100.00 reinstatement fee in addition to the renewal fee for each year in which the license was expired.
Sec. 151-9 Examination and license fees.
(a) Examination fees - General. The fee for any crane operator’s examination administered by the
Department or through an entity authorized by the Department shall be $150.00 for any required written
examination and $250.00 for any required practical examination. Applicants seeking to be examined for
more than one license classification shall pay such fee for each additional required written or practical
examination.
(b) License fee. The fee for a crane operator’s license shall be $100.00 for a one-year license and $300.00
for a license in effect for five years.
(c) Upgrading license classifications. In addition to any examination fee required under subsection (a) of
this section, an administrative processing fee of $50.00 shall be assessed if the licensee seeks to obtain
an amended license identifying additional type(s) of cranes the licensee is competent to operate.
Sec. 151-10 Apprentice crane operators - Permit required.
An apprentice crane operator’s permit may be issued to an individual by the Building Commissioner
authorizing the apprentice crane operator under the direct supervision and responsible control of a crane operator
properly licensed under this chapter. Applicants for such apprentice permit shall submit to the Department
a
notarized statement from an employer of licensed crane operators under whom the apprentice will be working, or
from an officer of a training program approved by the Building Commissioner. Such statements shall contain a
certification that the applicant will receive training under the direct supervision and responsible control
of
a
licensed crane operator. The fee for an apprentice permit shall be $50.00. The apprentice permit shall be valid
for one year and may be renewed at a cost of $50.00.
Sec. 151- 11

Carrying license or permit while operating crane - Required.

At all times while operating a crane, the licensee or apprentice shall carry his or her license or apprentice
permit, as applicable, on his or her person. Failure to produce a crane operator’s license or apprentice permit
upon request of the Building Commissioner or his representative while operating a crane shall be punishable by a
fine of $200.00.
Sec. 151-12 Permit to assemble or jump cranes - When required - Unlawful acts.
(a) Prior to assembling or jumping a tower crane or derrick-type equipment, a permit authorizing such
activity shall be obtained from the Building Department by the owner or lessee of the building or
premises on which such activity will occur or by such owner’s or lessee’s authorized agent. Such
owner, lessee and agent shall be jointly and severally liable for any violation of this section. The
application for such permit shall be in a form, and accompanied by information or materials,
reasonably required by the Building Commissioner.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble or jump any crane for which a permit is required
under subsection (a) of this section unless a valid permit authorizing such activity has been obtained
and is available for immediate inspection on the site of such activity.
(c) No modification to any crane, derrick, foundation, tie-in, or configuration shall be made without the
prior written approval of the Building Department.
Page 9 of 13

 Sec. 151-13 Notification of accident or safety issue - Required.
It shall be the duty of each crane operator or person employing such crane operator to immediately
report to the Building Department any and all accidents or safety issue(s) regarding the operation, assembly,
disassembly, or jumping of a crane.
Sec. 151-14 Safe equipment - Required.
(a) All crane equipment shall be kept in safe working condition at all times by the owner and licensee.
(b) If any safety device or operational aid used or required to be used in connection with the operation of a
crane is not working properly, the person operating such crane shall immediately shut down the crane
until the required safety device or operational aid is repaired or replaced and the crane is restored to
proper working order.
(c) The Building Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations to protect the public safety in
connection with the operation, maintenance, assembly, disassembly, or jumping of cranes. Such
regulations may include any structural, communication, reporting or other requirements deemed by the
Building Commissioner to be necessary or appropriate to securing the safety of the crane operator or the
general public.
Sec. 151-15 Failure to comply with rules and regulations - Unlawful act.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any applicable rule or regulation duly promulgated by the
Building Commissioner under this chapter.
Sec. 151-16 License - Revocation, suspension, and nonrenewal.
The Building Commissioner may revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew the license of any crane operator or
the permit of any apprentice who is found to be grossly negligent or incompetent in the operation of a crane or
whose actions show continuous carelessness or willful disregard for the health and safety of the public or others
while operating or assisting the operation of a crane or who misrepresents a material fact in apply for a license or
apprentice permit under this chapter. No such license or apprentice permit shall be revoked or suspended or not
renewed except after a public hearing by the board of crane operators examiners upon written notice to the
licensee or apprentice, as applicable, an after affording the licensee or apprentice an opportunity to appear and
defend. Provided, however, that if the Building Commissioner has good cause to believe that the continued
operation of a crane by a particular licensee or apprentice shall immediately threaten public safety, the Building
Commissioner may, upon issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or
hearing, prohibit the licensee or apprentice from operating or assisting in the operation of a crane for a period of
time not to exceed ten calendar days; provide, however that the licensee or apprentice shall be afforded an
opportunity to be heard during such period.
Sec. 151-17 Violation - Penalty.
(a) Any person who operates a crane without meeting the requirements of this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than
$10,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(b) Any person who employs an unlicensed person as a crane operator or who permits or directs an
unlicensed person to operate a crane shall be subject to a fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than
$30,000.00 for each violation. Each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate and distinct
Page 10 of 13

 offense.
Sec. 152-1. Establishing a Board of Crane Operator Examiners
For the purpose of the examination and licensing of crane operators performing work in the County, the
Board of Commissioners of the County establishes the Board of Crane Operator Examiners consisting of three
members. The Building Commissioner, or his designee, shall be ex officio chairman of the board. The other
two members shall consist of experienced crane operators, appointed by the Building Commissioner for a term
ending February 28 of each year, or until their successors are appointed and qualified. Three members of the
board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business and the concurrence of at least two members
shall be required to pass any matter.
Sec. 152-2 Mission and Policy
It is the mission and policy of the Board of Crane Operator Examiners to optimize the safety for all
people and communities of Cook County by preparing examinations, issuing licenses and permits, and
establishing rules governing the issuance, suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses and permits, for
crane operators in the County.
Sec. 152-3. Jurisdiction
The Board of Crane Examiners shall have jurisdiction throughout the County of Cook except within any
municipality which has an ordinance governing crane operators. In such case, the municipal ordinance shall prevail
within the municipality’s jurisdiction.
Sec. 152-4. Powers and Duties
The Board of Crane Operators Examiners shall have the following powers and duties in the licensing and
regulation of crane operators and apprentice crane operators under the provisions of this Code:
(a) Preparing forms for license certificates and issuing the same in conformity with the provisions of
Section 151 of the Building Code.
(b) Preparing or causing to be prepared subject matter for examinations, as provided in this Code;
(c) Grading or causing to be graded all tests and examinations for licenses;
(d) Prescribing standards for what shall constitute a recognized college, university or trade school,
apprentice training program or other knowledge, experience or training requirements and determining
the conformance to such standards;
(e) Holding regular meetings at any time fixed by rule or resolution of the board; and holding special
meetings for any stated purposes on at least 24-hour notice to each member. The chairman or two
members of such board may call such special meetings;
(f) Establishing rules to conduct hearings for suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses
consistent with requirements of due process of law;
(g) Holding hearings for the suspension, revocation or reinstatement of licenses; Section 151 of the
Page 11 of 13

 Building Code.
(h) Keeping a record of the official proceedings of the board; preserving all documents, books and papers
relating to examinations for licenses and hearings of complaints or charges; keeping a record of the
names, ages, place of business and residences of all applicants for licenses and the disposition made of
the applications, the number issued and rejected; keeping an up-to-date record specifying names and
addresses of crane operators licensed by the County, including the dates of issuance of all such licenses,
keeping a record specifying names, addresses, and dates of licenses suspended, revoked or forfeited, the
cause therefor, and licenses renewed and reinstated.

Sec. 152-5. Display of licenses
The Building Department shall require all appropriate licenses to be exhibited for examination by inspectors
or employees of the Department. The Building Department shall report to the Board of Crane Operators
Examiners the names and addresses, if known, and the locations of employment of all persons and the names and
address of the contractor who employed any person engaged in the operation of a crane who are not properly
licensed for the current year or who are not performing their duties in accordance with the provisions of’
this Code. The Building Department, upon request of the Board of Crane Operators Examiners, shall also
investigate complaints of violation of this Code received by the Board and submit a report of the investigation
with recommendations for disposition of the complaint to the Board.
The Board of Crane Operators Examiners shall have the following powers and duties in the licensing and
regulation of crane operators and apprentice crane operators under the provisions of this Code:
(a) Preparing forms for license certificates and issuing the same in conformity with the provisions of
Section 151 of the Building Code.
(b) Preparing or causing to be prepared subject matter for examinations, as provided in this Code;
(c) Grading or causing to be graded all tests and examinations for licenses;
(d) Prescribing standards for what shall constitute a recognized college, university or trade school,
apprentice training program or other knowledge, experience or training requirements and determining
the conformance to such standards;
(e) Holding regular meetings at any time fixed by rule or resolution of the board; and holding special
meetings for any stated purposes on at least 24-hour notice to each member. The chairman or two
members of such board may call such special meetings;
(f) Establishing rules to conduct hearings for suspension, revocation and reinstatement of licenses
consistent with requirements of due process of law;
(g) Holding hearings for the suspension, revocation or reinstatement of licenses; Section 151 of the
Building Code.
(h) Keeping a record of the official proceedings of the board; preserving all documents, books and papers
relating to examinations for licenses and hearings of complaints or charges; keeping a record of the
names, ages, place of business and residences of all applicants for licenses and the disposition made of
Page 12 of 13

 the applications, the number issued and rejected; keeping an up-to-date record specifying names and
addresses of crane operators licensed by the County, including the dates of issuance of all such licenses,
keeping a record specifying names, addresses, and dates of licenses suspended, revoked or forfeited, the
cause therefor, and licenses renewed and reinstated.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect 90 days after passages.
Legislative History: 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners Committee referred to the Zoning and Building

_____________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Silvestri
Murphy
Committee of the Whole

Page 13 of 13

 