MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
September 13 and 14, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, September 13, 2011 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, September 13, 2011 at approximately 10:00 A.M. the following Board members
were present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, and Joseph Moore. At 10:10 A.M. on
Tuesday, September 13, 2011, Chairman Jaffe called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat
gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. The Board recessed at 12:35 P.M.
On Wednesday, September 14, 2011 the meeting reconvened at 11:40 A.M. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and
Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:10 P.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 1:03 P.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe, Members
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 24, 2011. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –

 ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated the next Riverboat Regular Board meeting will be held on
October 25th and 26th, 2011 in Chicago. The Administrator also stated that the next Video
Gaming Regular Board meeting will be held on September 19th and 20th, 2011 in Chicago,
Illinois.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Kathy Gilroy –

Good afternoon, Chairman Jaffe, Members of the Board and staff. My name is Kathy Gilroy. I
am speaking today as a member of the public.
There are not many ways that a member of the public can check if casinos are complying with
the law. Their advertising is one way. A section of Illinois law on compulsive gambling
requires casinos to include in their advertising a statement on obtaining assistance with gambling
problems. After that law was passed by the legislature, it took years for the Department of
Human Services to determine what language was required, submit it for public commentary,
revise it, and get the final result approved by JCAR. But, that happened many years ago.
In their requests for renewal of their licenses, many Illinois casinos tout their training of
employees on compulsive gambling. But, at the same time, some of their advertising does not
comply with that law on compulsive gambling. Today, you are considering the renewal of
Harrah’s Casino license. In June, Harrah’s ran an ad where the required language did not appear
at all. I submitted it to your staff. Subsequent advertising had some language, but not what was
required, and it was still barely readable. I submitted that Harrah’s ad to your staff as well.
Harrah’s latest advertising does have the correct language, but it is still in a type that is hard to
read.
I thank your staff for calling this to Harrah’s attention, and I thank Harrah’s for making some
corrections. But, it bothers me that Harrah’s had to be asked to do that. My question is: Why
was it necessary for a member of the public to bring up this issue in the first place? It may seem
like a minor issue to some. But, it makes me worry that if Harrah’s is not in compliance with the
law on something so obvious to the public, what other not-so-obvious-to-the-public issues might
there be?
It’s not just Harrah’s. I thank Rivers Casino for making the correction to the proper language in
their advertising after I submitted several of their ads to your staff. Casino Queen has been
running some advertising with the proper language, but in barely-readable type. Grand Victoria
Casino had been using incorrect language, but used the correct language in the latest ad that I
saw. I questioned Grand Victoria’s use of the words “pending IGB approval” in an ad for a
promotion. It seems that that is boiler-plate. I haven’t seen any recent advertising by other
Illinois casinos.

2

 The law on compulsive gambling only mandates that that language be included on “paper stock”.
But, I think it would make sense for casinos to also include that language in other advertising,
whether it be radio, TV, billboards, online, video, etc. doing so would show that they are doing
more than the minimum required when it comes to compulsive gambling. I noticed that Rivers
Casino is already including it in their TV commercials. Thank you to Rivers Casino for that. I
would also suggest that the statement on obtaining assistance with compulsive gambling should
be on the homepage of the Illinois Gaming Board web-site. When over 8,000 people have
already requested to be in the Self-Exclusion Program in Illinois, the need for obtaining help
with compulsive gambling is evident.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Initial Consideration –
●

Argosy Casino Alton – License Renewal

Rich Laudon, General Manager of the Argosy Casino Alton initiated a power point presentation
for the license renewal of the owner’s license.
The following is a synopsis of the Argosy Casino Alton’s presentation for their license
renewal:
General Manager Rich Laudon introduced a few of the administrative staff members that were
present for the meeting.
Tom Hoechst, the Mayor of Alton appeared before the Board to express his appreciation for
Argosy Casino Alton. He went on to state that since its inception Alton has benefitted from the
riverboat. The Argosy Casino Alton is responsible for a great deal of improvements to the town
including a new law enforcement center. The Mayor also stated that the Argosy Alton dontated
$65,000 for a police boat to be purchased. Mayor Hoechst stated that Argosy Alton is a perfect
corporate neighbor. The Mayor went on to state that because of the presence of Argosy Casino
Alton the river front was extensively developed.
●

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. – Himbert J. Sinopoli, Vice President and General
Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Himbert J. Sinopoli as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Vice President and General Manager for Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc.,
in Aurora, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – William E.
Keena, General Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve William E. Keena as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of General Manager for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Corey J.
Wise, Vice President of Finance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Corey J. Wise as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the position
of Vice President of Finance for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Jose R.
Lebron, Vice President of Table Games – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Jose R. Lebron as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Vice President of Table Games for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Albert
Geldres, Vice President of Slot Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Albert Geldres as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Vice President of Slot Operations for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Moore
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Charles S.
Green, Vice President of Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board approve Charles S. Green as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Vice President of Operations for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment,
LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 ●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Travis L.
Clarke, Director of Security – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Travis L. Clarke as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Security for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – John C.
Budnyk, Director of Surveillance – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve John C. Budnyk as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Surveillance for Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC
d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines in Des Plaines, Illinois. Member Winkler seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – DesPlaines – Ownership
Approval
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
to approve the following trusts, that intend to indirectly own interests in Midwest
Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines through High
Plaines Gaming, LLC.
1. Jordan Weaver Gift Trust
2. Lillian Weaver Gift Trust
Member Gardner further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding redemption of interests in Midwest Gaming Holdings,
LLC and the issuance of interests to High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the
financing documents previously provided to the Board. Member Moore seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEM
●

Shuffle Master, Inc. – Michael Gavin Issacs, CEO – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
to approve Michael Gavin Isaacs as a Key Person of Shuffle Master, Inc. in his
position as Chief Executive Officer and Director. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

5

 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board find suitable and approve 78 applications for an Occupational License, Level
2, and 155 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the
following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend denial
and either did not respond or did not provide additional information which
rebutted the recommendations:
1.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Ramiro J. Jimenez;
Jason Adam Branch;
Adolfo Romo;
Erika Vanessa House;
Howard Rubin;
Regina R. Pegues; and
Antron E. Hoover.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gardner moved that the Board find Osvaldo
Salgado suitable for licensing and approve his application for an Occupational
License, Level 3. Member Winkler seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe opposed the
motion. Member Moore was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gardner moved that the Board find Shelley
Denise Chandler suitable for licensing and approve her application for an
Occupational License, Level 2. Member Winkler seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe
opposed the motion. Member Moore was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to
1.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Winkler moved that the Board find Gerald
Michael Bianchi suitable for licensing and approve his application for an
Occupational License, Level 2. Member Gardner seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe
opposed the motion. Member Moore was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to
1.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Winkler moved that the Board find Sherry
Lynne Robinson suitable for licensing and approve her application for an
Occupational License, Level 2. Member Gardner seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe
and Member Moore opposed the motion. The motion did not pass.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Moore moved that the Board find Angelia D.
Roberts suitable for licensing and approve her application for an Occupational

6

 License, Level 2. Member Winkler seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe opposed the
motion. Member Gardner was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.
●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Moore moved that the Board find Debra A.
Davis suitable for licensing and approve her application for an Occupational
License, Level 3. Member Gardner seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe opposed the
motion. Member Winkler was in favor of the motion. The motion passed 3 to 1.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gardner moved that the Board find Gretchen
Caruthers suitable for licensing and approve her application for an Occupational
License, Level 2. Member Winkler seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe and Member
Moore opposed the motion. The motion did not pass.

●

Based on staff’s investigation, Member Gardner moved that the Board find Danielle M.
Wosik suitable for licensing and approve her application for an Occupational
License, Level 2. Member Winkler seconded the motion. Chairman Jaffe and Member
Moore opposed the motion. The motion did not pass.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/ALJ REPORT –
●

Requests for Hearing – Breland L. McKnight, Justin Michael Torres and Gregory
Andrew Mandrek
Based on the review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler
moved that Breland L. McKnight’s, Justin Michael Torres’ and Gregory Andrew
Mandrek’s requests for a hearing be denied based on the fact that they have offered
no facts that establish a prima facie case. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS –
●

Claudia Machicado – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Claudia Machicado, an Occupational
Licensee, due to her admission of theft of currency from a patron of Grand Victoria
Casino.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Claudia Machicado’s
Occupational License. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer within that time
period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

7

 At 1:47 P.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

8

 